
              PROCEEDINGS
                          OF THE
ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
      From May     1, 1890,   to December       1, 1890.
                  VOL. XL VIII.
                      LONDON          :
 HARRISON    AND SONS, ST. MARTIN'S                      LANE,
          |)rin(trs in ©rbinarg  to jgtt HJHjtBtj;.
                   V   MDCCCXCI.

                         LONDON :
HABBISON AND 80NB, FBINTKBS IN OBDINAKY TO HKB 1IAJB8TT,
                    ST. MABTIN'S CANS.

                         CONTENTS.
                            VOL.      XLVIII.
                                      it*--
                           No. 292.— May    1. 1890.
Magnetic Properties of Alloys of Nickel and Iron.        By  J. Hopkinson,
  D.Sc,   F.RS                                                               1
Photographic Determination of the Time-relations of the Changes which
  take place in Muscle during the Period of so-called " Latent Stimula
  tion/ By J. Burdon Sanderson, F.RS                                       14
The Development of the Sympathetic Nervous System             in Mammals.
  By A. M.   Paterson, M.D.                                                19
A Note   on an Experimental Investigation into the Pathology of Cancer.
  By Charles A. Ballance  and Samuel G. Shattock                           23
List of Presents                                                           23
                                May   8, 1890.
Ou certain Ternary Alloys. Part II. By C. R. Alder Wright, D.Sc.,
  F.B.S., Lecturer on Chemistry and Physics, and C. Thompson, F.C.S.,
  F.I.C, Demonstrator of Chemistry, in St Mary's Hospital Medical
  School                                                         _         25
Experiments on Vapour-density.    By E. P. Perman, B.Sc, Clothworkers'
  Exhibitioner at University College, London                               45
On Barometric Oscillations during Thunderstorms, and on the Bronto-
  meter, an Instrument designed to facilitate their Study. By G. J.
  Symons,   F.RS                                                           59
On the Heating Effects of Electric Currents.         No. IV.    By William
  Henry   Preece, F.RS                                                     68
List of Presents                                                           68
                               May   22, 1890.
A  Contribution to the Etiology of Diphtheria.        By E. Klein, M.D.,
   F.RS.                                                                   71
The Chemical Products of the Growth of Bacillus arthrosis and their
   Physiological Action.   By Sidney Martin, M.D., Pathologist to the
   Middlesex Hospital                                                      78

                                        iv
On the Development      of the Atrial Chamber of Amphioxus.       By Arthur
   Willey, Student of University College, London                               80
On a Method of determining the Value of Rapid Variations of a Differ
   ence of Potential by means of the Capillary Electrometer.       By George
   J.  Burch, B.A                                                              89
A Bacteria-killing Globulin.      By E. H. Hankin, B. A., St. John's College,
   Cambridge,    Junior  George Henry Lewes Student                            93
List  of Presents                                            _                101
                              No. 293.— June   5, 1890.
Election of Fellows                                                           104
Account of recent Pendulum Operations for determining the relative
   Force of Gravity at the Kew and Greenwich Observatories.               By
  General Walker, C.B., F.R.S., LL.D                                          105
Observations     on   Pure Ice. — Part   II.    By Thos.   Andrews, F.R.S.,
  M.InstC.E                             „                                     106
The Passive     State of Iron and SteeL      — Part I.   By Thos. Andrews,
  F.RSS.L.    and E, MlnstC.E                                                 116
On the Superficial Viscosity of Water.       By Lord Rayleigh,   Sec. R.S     127
Experiments with Lord Rayleigh's Colour Box.            By Arthur Schuster,
      F.R.S.                                                                  140
List of  Presents                                                             149
                                  June  12, 1890.
On a Re-determination of the principal Line in the Spectrum of the
   Nebula in Orion, and on the Character of the Line. By William
   Huggins, D.C.L., LL.D, F.R.S., and Mrs. Huggins                            151
Note on the Photographic Spectrum of the Great Nebula in Orion.            By
   William Huggins, D.C.L., LL.D, F.RS., and Mrs. Huggins                     151
On a new Group of Lines in the Photographic Spectrum of Sirius.            By
   William Huggins, D.C.L, LL.D., F.R.S., and Airs. Huggins                   152
Preliminary     Note on the Development         of  the  Tuatara {Sphenodon
On the Position of the Vocal Cords in Quiet Respiration of Man, and
   on the Reflex-Tonus of their Abductor Muscles.           By Felix Semon,
   M.D., F.RC.P, Assistant Physician in charge of the Throat Depart
   ment of St. Thomas's Hospital, and Laryngologist to the National
   Hospital for Epilepsy and Paralysis, Queen Square                          156
A   Record of the Results obtained by Electrical Excitation of the so-
   called Motor Cortex and Internal Capsule in an Orang Outang (Simia
   mtyriii). By Charles E. Beevor, M.D., F.R.C.P., and Victor Horsley,
   B.S., F.R.S.    (From the Laboratory of the Brown Institution.)            159

                                        V
A further Note     on the Influence of Bile and its Constituents on
   Pancreatic Digestion. By Sidney Martin, M.D., Pathologist to the
   Middlesex Hospital, British Medical Association Research Scholar,
   and Dawson Williams, M.D., Assistant Physician to the East London
   Hospital for Children, Shadwell                                              160
On the Spectra    of Comet a    1890  and   the Nebula G.C. 4058.       By  J.
   Norman Lockyer, F.RS.-                                                       1*5
List of Presents                                                                165
On the    Chief Line in the Spectrum      of the  Nebulae.    By  J.  Norman
   Lockyer, F.RS                                                                167
Note on the Spectrum    of the Nebula of Orion.    By  J.  Norman Lockyer,
   F.RS                                                                         198
Preliminary Note on Photographs of the Spectrum            of the Nebula in
  Orion. By J. Norman Lockyer, F.RS                                            199
                                    No.  294.
On a Re-determination of the Principal Line in the Spectrum of the
  Nebula in Orion, and on the Character of the Line. By William
  Huggins, DJC.U, LLD., F.RS., and Mrs. Huggins                                202
Note on the Photographic Spectrum of the Great Nebula in Orion.            By
  William Huggins, D.C.L., LL.D., F.RS., and Mrs. Huggins                      213
On a new Group of Lines in the Photographic Spectrum of Sirius.            By
  William Huggins, D.C.L., LL.D, F.RS., and Mrs. Huggins                       216
On the Spectra   of Comet a 1890 and the Nebula G.C.            4058.   By  J.
  Norman Lockyer, F.RS                                                         217
                                 June  19, 1890.
On the Determination of some Boiling and Freezing Points by means
  of the Platinum Thermometer.        By E. H. Griffiths, M.A., Sidney
  Sussex College, Cambridge                                                    220
On the Alleged Slipping at the Boundary of a Liquid in Motion.             By
  W. C. Dampier Whetham, B.A., Coutts Trotter Student of Trinity
  College, Cambridge                                                           225
Re-determination of the True Weight of a Cubic Inch of Distilled
  Water. By H. J. Chaney                                                       230
On  Wind Pressure   upon an Inclined Surface.     By W. H.    Dines,  B.A      233
On the Action of Oils on the Motions of Camphor on the Surface of
  Water. By Charles Tomlinson, F.RS                                            258
On the Plasticity of an Ice Crystal.      (Preliminary    Note.)   By James
  C. McConnel, M.A                                                             259
Preliminary Note on    a  New Magnetometer.       Bv Professor W. Stroud,
  D. Sc                                                                        260

                                       vi
                                                                         Page
On the Course of the Fibres of the Cingulum and the Posterior Parts of
   the Corpus Callosum and of the Fornix in the Marmoset Monkey.
   By Charles E. Beevor, M.D., F.K.C.P                              ™    271
On the Changes produced in the Circulation and Respiration by Increase
   of the Intracranial Pressure or Tension.     By Walter Spencer, M.S.,
   Assistant-Surgeon to Westminster Hospital, and Victor Horsley, B.S.,
   F.RS                           _                                      273
On    the British Earthquakes of 1889.       By Charles Davison, M.A.,
   Mathematical Master at King Edward's High School, Birmingham .... 276
On the Harmonic Analysis of Tidal Observations of High and Low-
   Water. By G. H. Darwin, F.R.S., Plumian Professor and Fellow of
   Trinity College, Cambridge                                            278
An Experimental Investigation of the Central Motor Innervation of the
   Larynx.     Part I. Excitation Experiments.     By Felix Semon, M.D.,
   F.R.C.P., and Victor Horsley, B.S., F.RS. (From the Laboratory of
  the Brown Institution.)                                                341
Contributions to the Molecular Theory of Induced Magnetism.           By
  J. A. Ewing, F.RS., Professor of Engineering in University College,
   Dundee                                                                342
On    the Relation between the Magnetic Permeability of Rocks and
  Regional Magnetic Disturbances.      By A. W. Riicker, M.A., F.R.S     358
On the Causes of the Phenomena of Terrestrial Magnetism, and on
  some Electro-mechanism for exhibiting the Secular Changes in its
  Horizontal and Vertical Components.       By H. Wilde, F.RS            358
List of Presents                           „                             359
On    the Germination of the Seed of the Castor-Oil Plant (Ricinut com
  munis).     By J. R. Green, M.A., B.Sc, F.L.S., Professor of Botany to
   the Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain                           370
A  Note on an Experimental Investigation into the Pathology of Cancer.
  By    Charles A. Ballance and Samuel G. Shattock                       392
On the Position of the Vocal Cords in Quiet Respiration in Man, and on
   the Reflex-Tonus of their Abductor Muscles.     By Felix Semon, M.D.,
   F.RC.P., Assistant Physician in charge of the Throat Department of
   St. Thomas's Hospital, and Laryngologist to the National Hospital
   for Epilepsy and Paralysis, Queen Square                              403
                          No. 295.— November 20,  1890.
On the Determination of the Specific Resistance of Mercury in Absolute
   Measure.      By   J.  V. Jones, Principal and Professor of Physics
   in the University College of South Wales and Monmouthshire,
   Cardiff.                                                              434
The Spectroscopic Properties pf Dust. By G. D. Liveing, M.A., F.R.S.,
    Professor of Chemistry, and J. Dew'ar, M.A., F.R.S., Jacksonian
   Professor, University of Cambridge                                    437

                                         vii
                                                                               Page
 On the    Specific Heats of Gasea at Constant Volume.          Part I. Air,
    Carbon Dioxide, and Hydrogen. By J. Joly, M.A., B.E., Assistant to
    the Professor of Civil Engineering, Trinity College, Dublin                440
 Magnetism and Recalescence.       By J.  Hopkinson, D.Sc, F.R.S               442
  List of Presents                                                             446
                                November 27, 1890.
 On the Homology between           Genital Ducts and Nephridia in the
    Oligochajta.   By Frank E. Beddard, M.A., Prosector of the Zoological
    Society                                                             _      452
 The Patterns in Thumb and Finger Marks : on their Arrangement into
    naturally distinct Classes, the Permanence of the Papillary Bidges
    that make them, and the Resemblance of their Classes to ordinary
    Genera.    By Francis Galton, F.B.S                                       455
 Preliminary Note on the Transplantation and Growth of Mammalian
    Ova within a Uterine Foster-Mother.           By Walter Heape, M.A.,
    Balfour Student at the University of Cambridge                            457
 The Conditions of Chemical Change between Nitric Acid and certain
    Metals. By V. H. Veley, M.A., the University Museum, Oxford               458
 The Variations    of Electromotive Force of Cells consisting of certain
    Metals, Platinum, and Nitric Acid.          By G. J. Burch, B.A., and
    V. H. Veley, M.A*, the University Museum, Oxford                          460
 List of Presents                                           .-.               4G1
                                December   1, 1890.
                            Anniversary Meeting.
Report of Auditors                                                            464
 List of Fellows deceased since last Anniversary                              464
                   elected                                                    465
Address of the President                                                      465
Election of Council and Officers                                              475
Financial Statement                                                     477-480
Trust Funds                                                             481^85
Table   showing Progress and present State of Society with regard to
   Fellows                                                                   486
Account of the appropriation of the sum of £4,000 (the Government
   Grant) annuallv voted by Parliament to the Royal Society, to be
   employed in aiding the Advancement of Science                             486
Account of Grants from the Donation Fund                                     490
Report of the Kew Committee                                                  491
On   the Relation between the Magnetic Permeability of Rocks and
   Regional Magnetic Disturbances.      By A. W. Riicker, M.A., F.R.S        505

                                  viii
Obituary Notices : —
   Rudolf Julius Emmanuel Clausius               i
   Sir William Gull                          viii
  Stephen Joseph   Perry               «...   xii
  William Kitchen Parker                      xv
  Robert William Mylne                        xx
Index                                       xxiii

       OBITUARY NOTICES OF FELLOWS DECEASED.
     Rudolf Jclics Emmanuel Clausius was born on the 2nd January,
 1822, in   Ccislin, in Pomerania.     He was the sixth son of the Rev.
 C. E. G. Clausins, D.D., Councillor of the Royal Government School
 Board, and later, Superintendent in Ueckermiinde.
     After the completion of his studies in the Gymnasinm       in Stettin, ho
 attended the University of Berlin from 18-40 to 1844.         In the Easter
 of 1844 he passed his examination " pro facultate docendi," and then
 finished his year of probation at the Frederic- Werder Gymnasium.
 Here he taught the higher classes mathematics and physics.           In the
 autumn     of  1846   he   entered  Boeck's   Royal Seminary for higher
 students.     On the 15th July,      1848,  he took    his degreo in Hallo
 " eximia cum laude     "                             "
                           (subject of dissertation — De iis Atmosphasra)
 Particulis quibns Lumen reflectitur "). On the 25th September, 1850,
 he was invited to be Professor of Physics in the Royal Artillery and
 Engineering School at Berlin. On the 18th December he delivered
his inaugural lecture as decent at the University of Berlin (" De
Motu Corporum rotantium in Aere resistcnte "). On the 29th August,
 1855, he was called to be Ordinary Professor in the Polytechnicum in
Zurich, and also at the same time in the University of Zurich. In
 1867 he was appointed Professor in the University of Wiiraburg, and
in 1869 he went to Bonn, where he fulfilled his duties till the day of
his death, the 24th August, 1888.
    While at Zurich he married, on the 13th November, 1859, Adelheid
Rimpam, of Brunswick.             They had six children, of whom two
daughters and two sons are alive.           His wife died in 1875, and ho
married again, in 1886, Sophie Sack, of Essen, by whom he had ono
son.
   His brother, Herr Robert Clausius, thus writes of the character of
this great man : —
    " I had often the opportunity of admiring the rare energy and
clearness with which, in a small study and with limited means, he
untiringly pursued his great scientific aims. A chief characteristic
was his sincerity and fidelity.        Every kind of exaggeration was
opposed to his nature.       Even as a youth all intimate with him learnt
to esteem   his reliability and truthfulness. In the Gymnasium and in
all circumstances of his later life the greatest confidence and trust
                                                                    b

                                        ii
 were placed in him. His judgment, which was guided by the strongest
 feeling of rectitude, was highly valued.      Another important trait was
 his Unbending and firm faithfnlness to duty, to which he was true in
all affairs of life up  to his death.    Even on his last bed of sickness he
 held   an examination.      He was the best and most affectionate of
fathers, fully entering into the joys of his children. He himself
 supervised the schoolwork of his children. He was simple and
natural in his intercourse and possessed of a rare modesty. He was
 never tired of sacrificing himself in cases of necessity, and though
immersed in abstract studies he always kept a warm heart for every
thing human. He was a great, noble-minded, good man, whom all
who knew more intimately have loved and esteemed, not only on
account of his scientific celebrity but especially on account of his
noble, manly qualities.
     " His
           burning patriotism did not permit him to stay idly at home
during the war 1870-1. He undertook the leadership of an ambulance
corps, which he formed of Bonn students.            At the great battles of
Vionville and Gravelotte he helped to carry the wounded from the
battle and to lessen their sufferings.       Fpr his services in this cam
paign    he received  the  Iron  Cross.    A contusion in his leg which he
received on the field of battle caused him great pain for many years
and often necessitated his driving to his lectures.          On the doctor's
advice, at the age of 56 he learnt to ride, and became an excellent
horseman.      Biding proved very beneficial to his health."
    One of his sons thus writes of him : — '
    " The
           principal trait in my father's character     was,  without doubt,
the splendid truthfulness of his nature.        In his deeds and words he
never could tolerate anything ambiguous, and particularly as regards
himself he cherished no self-deception.          For that reason he never
suffered from the discovery of the motives of his actions ; from thence
sprang his thoroughly noble nature as well as his great modesty and
the delight which he always felt, and was never too proud to express,
at the recognition of his work ; from thence his dislike to all smatter
ing and superficiality in which he suspected some untruthfulness.
Another remarkable characteristic was the uncommon one of seeing
only the best side of his neighbours.       He hardly noticed their faults,
and when he did he had not the least inclination to cheap mockery.
The general impression which he received of people was formed from
the more or less strong development of their good qualities and was
little dimmed by the presence of this or that defect. His hparty,
pleasant, always thoroughly genuine address towards everyone
was the result of this trait. Only when he discovered untruthfulness
did he take a deep aversion."
    Clausius received the following offers of posts : —
    In 1858 to the Polytechnicon of Carlsruhe ; in 1862               to the

                                    iii
Polytechnicum of Brunswick ; in 1866 to Vienna ; in 1868 to Munich ;
in 1871 to Strasburg ; in 1883 to Gottingen.
   He received the following orders and titles : —
   When Professor in Wurzburg he was appointed Court Councillor ;
in 1868, as Professor in Bonn, he was appointed Privy Councillor ; in
1870 he received the Huygens Medal ; in 1871 the Iron Cross ; in
1873 the Order of the Crown, 3rd Class ; in 1879 the Order of the
Red Eagle, 3rd Class, and the Copley Medal : in 1881 he was named
Officer of the Legion of Honour ; in 1882 he was appointed Doctor of
Medicine     honoris causa in Wurzburg ; in 1883 he received the
Poncelet prize ; in 1884 the Order of the Prussian Crown, 2nd Class ;
in 1885 the Bavarian Maximilian Order. During 1884-5 he1 was
 Rector of the University of Bonn, and for six months was Curator of
 this University.    He took part in the academic education of Prince
William, afterwards Emperor of Germany.         In 1887 he was invited
to be one of the Curators of the New Imperial Physical and Technical
Institution.    In 1888, at the Investiture of the Order for Art and
Science,  he  was  appointed Hereditary Knight.
    He received the following honours from Learned Societies : —
   In 1857 Hon. Mem. Harlem; in 1859 Hon. Mem. of the Engineers
of Scotland and Corresp. Mem. Erlangen ; in 1865 Corresp. Mem. of
the Institute of France ; in 1866 Hon. Mem. Frankfurt-am-Main, and
Hon. Mem. Dublin and Corresp. Mem. Gottingen ; in 1868 Royal Soc.
Lond. ; in 1869 Hon. Mem. Nat. Hist. Soc. Zurich ; in 1871 Elected
Mem. Munich; in 1872 Elected Mem. Pest; in 1873 Corresp. Meni.
 Bologna and Elected Hon. Mem. Boston ; in 1875 Hon. Mem. Civil
 Engin. Lond., Elected Corresp, Mem. Vienna, and Mem. Brussels ; in
1876 Corresp. Mem. Berne, Society of Arts Geneva, and Hon. Mem.
Nat. Hist. Soc. Basel ; in 1877 Elected Mem. GSttiDgen ; in 1878
 Elected Mem. Stockholm, Elected Mem. Naples and St. Petersburg ¦
 in 1879 Mem. Halle Natural Hist. Soc. and Elected Mem. Ling. ; in
 1882 Corresp. Mem. Milan; Corresp. Mem. Turin, and Hon. Mem.
 Mech. Eng. New York ; in 1883 Elected Mem. Washington, Hon.
 Mein. Erlangen, and Foundation Mem. Internat. Soc. of Electricians ;
in 1884 Corresp. Mem. Cherbourg and Corresp. Mem. Lucca; Hon.
Mem. Manchester, Mem. Amsterdam ; in 1887 Hon. Meni. Brunswick,
Hon. Mem. Hamburg, Ordinary Mem. Upsala; in 1888 Mem. Edin.
    In his scientific work Clausius investigated the general mechanism
 of Nature rather than particular applications of the principles he
 discovered ; he was constructively synthetical rather than analytical.
 It is remarkable how he was led by dim previsions, as when his
 theory of gases influenced his views on heat when his gas theory was
 yet quite imperfect ; his greatest work is grouped round his insight
 into molecular structure.    The other great branch of his work is
 connected with electromagnetic theory.      As in the theory of heat, he

                                      iv
worked from the theory of matter to the theory of the steam engine,
so in electromagnetism, he worked from the theory of electromagnetic
actions to the theory of its industrial application to dynamos.
   Clausius' first publications were concerned with the action of
atmospheric    dust on sunlight. This seems to have directed his
thoughts to molecular physics, which was indirectly the foundation of
his greatest work. Thermodynamics was the region he explored, and
his exploration was guided by his insight into molecular physics.
When Clansius was beginning his independent activity the investiga
tions of Rumford, Davy, Mayer, Joule, and Helmholtz had conclusively
shown that heat could be produced from work, while the thermo
dynamic    speculations   of Carnot, founded      upon  the assumed
indestructibility of caloric, were receiving every day additional con
firmation.  There was an obvious difficulty here of which Carnot
himself was doubtless aware. Of this difficulty, in 1849, Sir William
Thomson writes, that if we abandon Carnot's fundamental axiom " we
meet with innumerable other difficulties insuperable without further
investigation and an entiro reconstruction of the theory of heat from
its foundations.     Itis,in reality, to experiment that we must look,
either for a verification of Carnot's axiom and an explanation of the
difficulty wo have been considering, or for an entirely new basis of
the theory of heat."
   It was at this juncture that Clausius, without waiting for additional
experiments, read, in the Berlin Academy on the 18th February, 1850,
his paper, " Ueber die bewegonde Kraft der Warme, und die Gesetze,
welche sich daraus fiir die Warmelehre selbst ableiten lassen."
   Carnot had assumed that a heat engine gavo out the same heat at
the lower temperature as     took in at the higher, and founded his
                              it
theory on this assumption and upon the impossibility of perpetual
motion.  Clausius, in the first place, emphasised that the heat given
out must be less than the heat taken in by an amount equivalent to
the work done, that this was required by the First Law of Thermo
dynamics, the equivalence of Heat and Work.              Thus modified,
Carnot's theorems could no longer rely for their proof on the im
possibility of perpetual motion, and      was Clausius' great discovery
                                           it
to found Thermodynamics      upon the New Second Law of Thermo
            " That
dynamics,          heat tends to flow of itself from hot to cold bodies."
On these foundations Clausius raised again the Theory of Thermo
dynamics, aud thenceforward      there was no serious doubt as to its
security.   Several   different    ways of stating the Second Law of
Thermodynamics       have    been advocated, and objections have been
raised to each of them.       Of these things Clerk Maxwell writes that
          " first stated the
Clausius                     principle of Carnot in a manner consistent
with the true theory of heat." Of the varieties of statement he writes  :
"
  By comparing together these statements the student will be able to

                                       V
make himself master of the facts which they embody, an acquisition
which will be of much greater importance to him than any form of
words on which a demonstration may be more or less compactly con
structed."
    There can be no doubt that Clausius was the first to throw a clear
light upon the then dark and doubtful foundations of Carnot's
theorem.       Sir William Thomson writes of this in 1851, "the merit
of first establishing the proposition upon correct principles is entirely
due to Clausius."
    As Professor Willard Gibbs says, "Rankin was attacking the
problem in his own way with one of those marvellous creations of the
 imagination of which it is so difficult to estimate the precise value."
 The question of the amount of mechanical effect to be derived from
 heat, he further says, " was completely answered, on its theoretic side,
 in the memoir of Clausius, and the science of thermodynamics came
 into existence."    " It
                          might be said, at any time, since the publication
 of that memoir, that the foundations of the science were secure, its
 definitions clear, and its boundaries distinct."     To Clausius then be
 the honour of making a science of Thermodynamics.
     Clausius' subsequent work in this line consists essentially in work
 ing out the results of the law he discovered, and in investigating its
 foundations on general dynamical principles applied to molecular
 physics.    In working out the results of his law he explored in two
 directions.    He applied his discovery to work out the theory of
 the steam engine, and of many known phenomena, and also to dis
 cover properties of matter revealed by his analysis.       This latter line
 is contiguous with his exploration      of the dynamical foundations of
  the theory of heat.    His analysis revealed the existence of eutropy as
  a property of matter, a property for which mankind has no sense,
  such as exists for feeling temperature, and which consequently
  escapes attention, and is most difficult of apprehension;     so difficult,
  indeed, that although fundamentally as important as temperature in
  the theory of steam engines, its existence is ignored by all except the
  very foremost amongst those who study the working of steam engines.
  Clausius has left little to be done in the theory of heat engines
 except to work out, in the lines he has laid down, the details that
 experiments may prove to' be most important. Clausius applied his
 theory to investigate the laws of specific and latent heat, of saturated
 steam, of the relations of heat and electricity in conductors, in ther
  mopiles, and in electrolytes, and to the laws of radiant heat. He
 showed that radiant heat was no exception to the law that heat flows
 of itself from hot to cold bodies, and so proved the futility of the
 ingenious suggestion that the death of the universe by the degrada-
 tioa of energy might be avoided by the reconceutration            of heat
 radiations by reflection from the confines of the ether.       He showed

                                       vi
that the radiating power of black bodies in various media was pro
portional to the square of the refractive index of the medium, which
involves    a  corresponding     law   of   radiation    of  electromagnetic
energy.
   In all these applications his attention was constantly directed to
the underlying molecular motions which explained the phenomena on
dynamical principles.       It was in this connexion that he investigated
the dynamical foundations of the Second Law of Thermodynamics and
the molecular theory of gases and of electrolysis.
   In quite an early investigation he had been dominated by the con
ception that heat in a body can be considered as separated into two
parts, one the kinetic energy of atoms, and the other the potential
energy of forces between atoms.             His later investigations were
elaborations    of these conceptions by the application of statistical
methods, and by mathematical analysis of the highest order.               He
showed that the heat in a body could be expressed as the product of
two factors, one proportional to the mean kinetic energy of the atoms,
and the other depending on the mass, velocity, and period of then-
motions.      These factors may be identified with temperature and
eutropy,    and  so furnish a dynamical basis for the theory of heat.
Involved in these investigations was the Theorem of the Virial, which
is so important in the dynamics of stationary motion.           His theory is
in accordance with much that       we know, though it neglects radiation,
and forces between molecules depending on their motions and posi
tions, which may be systematically different before and after collision.
With the ether among the molecules it is almost impossible but that
some such forces exist, while the success of dynamical theories
that neglect them      seems   to show that their effect cannot be very
great.
   While Clausins was elaborating these general results, he attacked
the simpler case of the molecular theory of gases.             That the pro
perties  of  gases were   in  some  way  due  to the  motions  of their mole-
rules was a hypothesis as old at least as Bernoulli, but it was
C'lausius who raised it to the rank of a theory, and he has been
described by Clerk Maxwell as the principal founder of the science. He
showed how Boyle's and Dalton's laws followed from the theory, and
how they were approximate ; he proved the existence of intra
molecular energy, and the necessity for Avcgadro's law, and for the
equality of mean energy of translation ; and, insisting on the necessity
for two atoms in a molecule, hastened the advent of the change in
atomic weights which chemists were adopting ; he investigated the
length of the mean free path of a molecule, and the rates of diffusion
and conductivity of heat in gases.
   In connexion with the molecular theory of matter, Clausins had
as early as 1851    investigated   some   of the   la^vs of evaporation, and

                                     vii
had shown that the law of corresponding temperatures that Groshans
modified from Dalton involved the law that at any given pressure the
latent heat of vaporisation per unit volume of many snbstances was
the same.      After Van der Waals' memorable paper on the continuity
of the liquid and gaseous states, Clausius published an elaborate
investigation of this subject, in which he developed the application of
a rather complicated formula, and showed that it represented the
experiments throughout an enormous range with wonderful accuracy.
There is a measurable departure from the law in calculating the com
pressibility of the liquids.      To facilitate the application of this
formula, Clausius invented and calculated the values of a special
transcendental.
    Electricity and magnetism attracted Clausius' attention from time
to time, at first in connexion with heat and molecular physics, and
afterwards with reference to the theory of electrokinetic actions.      In
1858 he developed the theory that the molecules in electrolytes are
continually interchanging atoms, and that the effect of electric force is
to direct the interchange and not to cause it. It seems, however,
possible that as synchronous systems near the solar system might
break it up, while asynchronous       ones might not, so a polarisation
of the atomic motions in a liquid might result in a proportionate
breaking up of the molecules which before this introduced regularity
were stable.     In reply to Hittorff s objection that gases should obey
Ohm's law, Clausius answered that there were too few molecules.
This can hardly be considered conclusive in presence of electrolytic
conduction in very dilute aqueous solutions.          His theory, however,
explains    almost  all the known   facts of   electrolysis, and has been
extended by others to explain many other phenomena with most
 remarkable success. He investigated electric osmosis, and hints that
 it is produced by electric forces due to charges over the surfaces of
 the pores in the diaphragm.      He remarked that the resistance of
 pure metals is proportional to their absolute temperature.
    His electrokinetic theory, founded on a theory of action at a
 distance between electrical elements moving in conductors, led to the
 conclusion that the action between the elements must depend on
 their absolute velocity and not on their relative velocity. This prac
 tically postulates a medium with reference to which the elements
 move, and by which the actions are propagated.
    With the great development of electrodynamics as a machine for
 applying energy to do man's work, Clausius repeated his exploration
 of the theory of the steam engine, that great machine for applying
 heat energy to do work, and investigated on broad principles the
 theory of dynamos.       Some of his work in this direction is super
 seded by the rapid development of the science and its applications,
 but his insight into the problem is evidenced by his having been one
                                                                   o

                                    viii
<if  the first to notice hysteresis, which he describes as the forces
resisting magnetisation being like friction.
    It is to be regretted that in his electromagnetic theory Clansius
was led by the algebrnic methods of Weber rather than by the
geometrical insight of Faraday, or by some mechanical theory, such
as directed his steps in thermodynamics.     If his constructive genius
had been here well directed, there might now exist a satisfactory
theory of electromagnetic action ; he might have founded the theory
of ether as well as of gas ; he had genius enough to do it.
    Though not himself an experimentalist,        he valued    and was
eminently able to criticise and use the results of experiment.         He
had that clear grasp of natural phenomena which leads to a right
interpretation of thein. and that concrete practical conception of them
that leads to a continual reference back of the interpretation to expe
rimental numerical verification.      He was a noble example of the
spirit that devotes itself to directly benefiting mankind, and that
does not waste time on petty elaborations of pretty problems.          He
was in the highest sense practical, his work is eternal, and his
memory will live as long as mankind reveres its benefactors.
                                                         G. F. F. G.
    Sir William    Gull   died  on the 28th day of January, 1890, at
his house in Brook      Street, in his 74th year.   His was one of the
many distinguished names which refute the imputation of dulness
upon the Eastern counties.        He was born in the north-east corner
of Essex, at one of the many villages which retain the old English
name of Thorpe.       While he was still a child his father died, and
lie was dependent for his education upon his mother's character and
his own exertions.     While teaching in the village school, he attracted
 the attention of the late Mr. Benjamin Harrison, for many years the
 Treasurer of Guy's Hospital, and the wise ruler of its Medical School.
 Thorpe-le-Soken lay in the midst of the Essex estates of the Hospital,
 and the Treasurer performed all the duties of a good landlord.
 Telling the friendless youth, " If you will help yourself I will help
 you," he brought him up to London, and gave him employment in
 transcribing Museum catalogues, and other clerical work in the
 Hospital counting-house.      While thus employed Gull matriculated at
 the University of London in 1838, and by the Treasurer's influence
 was admitted to attendance on the courses of lectures at Guj-'b.      His
 industry and talents procured him an honourable degree in 1841.
 Dr. Quain, who graduated the year before, Sir Edmund Parkes, who
 passed in the same year, and Sir Alfred Garrod and Dr. George
 Johnson, who followed in 1842, all became like him Fellows of this
 Society, and all, with the exception of the lamented Parkes, survive
 him.

                                      ix
    Before he proceeded to the M.D. degree, at which he obtained the
 Gold Medal, he had been appointed by the Treasurer as a Super
 numerary Resident Medical Officer, with special charge of the lunatic
 patients, who at that time occupied a department of the Hospital.
 For about nine years he seems to have been employed every day, and
almost all day long, in the medical wards, acquiring by constant and
 close observation that familiarity with every variety of disease which
afterwards stood him in such good stead.
    In 1843 he received his first appointment in the Medical School,
 that of Lecturer on Natmul Philosophy, and three years later wa
transferred to the Chair of Physiology.
    For three years, from 1847 to 1849, he was also Professor of Phy
siology in the Royal Institution.
    In 1848 he married, and in 1851 he was appointed Assistant
 Physician to Guy's Hospital.       In 1858 he was promoted to be full
Physician,    and  for several years lectured on medicine with the late
Dr. Owen Rees, also a Fellow of this Society, who died only a few
months before Sir William Gull, after an illness of almost exactly the
same nature and the same duration.
    Very early in his career Dr. Gull obtained a large practice.     His
natural sagacity, his unusually large experience, his knowledge of
disease and his knowledge of mankind, all combined in bis favour.
His striking physiognomy, his gravity and self-possession, his power
of sympathy, and the well-chosen words in which he delivered his
opinions fitted him to gain the confidence of his patients.         But,
apart from his remarkable practical skill, he showed a true scientific
spirit in dealing with disease. He was unwearied in patient investi
gation, sparing no time where it was needful, although he wisely
would refuse to trouble himself or his patient with minute collated
enquiries when once the essential nature of the case was apparent.
He was never satisfied with the commonplace explanations which too
often do duty for science, or the commonplace prescriptions which
too often do dnty for treatment.      He had so thorough a knowledge of
medicine that he would have been successful in spite of every per
sonal defect, and his skill in dealing with patients was so consum
mate that he would have been successful if he had been ignorant of
his profession.
   In 1871 a severe attack of enteric fever from which the Priuee of
Wales suffered brought Dr. Gull's name into public notice, and his
services  were acknowledged     by a Baronetcy, with a grant of Arms.
    After his retirement   from hospital practice, Sir William Gull did
not allow his enormous consulting practice to absorb his energies or
his interest.    Few men have practised a lucrative profession with less
eagerness to grasp at its pecuniary rewards.      He kept up the honour
able standard of generosity to poor patients which has been handed
                                                               c 2

                                      X
down from Mead and Heberden ; and, with a liberality which is less
common, he showed no jealousy of younger men sharing in his good
fortune.    Not one, but five or six of those who were risiug in the pro
fession, owed much of their success to his help.           His name was
familiar to the public, and his practice increased beyond his power to
overtake his engagements.       It is supposed that for several years he
made as large an income as that of Sir Astley Cooper in 1814.         But
the fortune which he left at his death     was, it is well known, only in
part the result of his professional earnings.
    Sir William Gull was independent in his relations with his patients,
and was always glad to devolve as much of his work as he could upon
younger colleagues. He also fonnd time for the punctual performance
of the public duties which his position imposed upon him.         On the
Council of this Society, on the Senate of the University of London,
on the General Medical Council, and on that of the Association for
the Advancement of Medicine by Research, he was a constant and
influential attendant.       He went through the various offices of
Lecturer, Councillor, Orator, and Censor in the College of Physicians,
and was generally looked to as its next President at the time of his
last illness.
    This was in the long vacation of 1887 —just before his return to
Brook Street to resume his work. He was attacked with apoplexy
while walking in his grounds in Perthshire ; and, though the attack
soon passed off, its significance was apparent, and to none more so than
to the patient.    He gave up practice and spent the next two years
partly at Eastbourne and partly near Reigate.         Repeated returns of
his disorder, with varying severity, were watched by him with intelli
gent interest and full appreciation of their meaning. His intellectual
faculties were spared him to the last, and nothing became him better
than the fortitude and clear-sightedness with which he watched the
process of decay, the friendly relations which he kept up or renewed
with old colleagues or pupils or rivals, and the resigned submission
with which he awaited the end. This came in a sudden and painless
attack on the morning of the 28th of January in the present year. A
few days later he was buried in the churchyard of his native village,
beside his father and mother's grave, attended by representatives of
his University, of the Royal Colleges of Physicians and Surgeons, of
Guy's Hospital, and by a crowd of colleagues, friends, and pupils.
    His striking appearance, his slow movements and deep voice, with
his grave, thoughtful, but kind and sympathising manner, admirably
fitted Sir William Gull to be an adviser and a helper in time of need.
Few physicians have so completely acquired and retained the con
fidence of their patients.
    As a hospital teacher, his method was minute and elaborate in in
vestigation, clear and comprehensive in diagnosis, sagacious in fore

                                       xi
cast,   cautious and modest iu treatment.           While not inferior in
accurate physical diagnosis to those who made this tho whole of
their art, he would never follow the routine system of diagnosis
by successive exclusions, which, however useful to a junior student,
is of very limited application at the bedside.      In really obscure cases,
where definite physical signs failed to indicate the nature, or even the
existence of the disease, few physicians have approached the almost
intuitive sagacity of Sir William Gull.
    He was often supposed to be entirely sceptical as to treatment ; and
this scandal, thonirh unjust, \Vas no doubt fostered by some too sweep
ing words of contempt for polypharmacy and unverified therapeutical
dogmas.     In reality,   his treatment   was extremely careful, scrupu
lous, and   minute, judicious in its aim, ingenious in its devices, and
occupied witli those little matters of detail which make so much
difference to tlie comfort of the patient, and the success of any plan
of therapeutic.     His use of drugs was scarcely more sparing than the
practice   of other   scientific physicians.   In suitable    cases no one
wielded such powerful weapons       as opium, mercury, arsenic, and digi
talis with more confidence and skill.        Ho used iron and quinine and
acids, and bitters and purgatives much as others use them, but
 with a full recognition of the limited power of drugs, the natural
 limitations of acute disease, and the inevitable progress of degenera
tion and decay.
    His eminence as a clinical teacher, a lecturer, and a practitioner
was so conspicuous, that his merits as a pathologist and observer have
 scarcely received the credit they deserve.     It is not too much to say,
 that he takes rank among the five or six Englishmen of his generation
 who advanced medical knowledge at more than one important point.
 He never published a book, and his papers are scattered in the volumes
 of the 'Guy's Hospital Reports' and in the Transactions of Societies.
 In one of the earliest papers which he published (in conjunction
with Dr. Addison) was given almost the first notice and the first
complete description of the remarkable diseaso of the skin known as
Xanthelasma.      His papers on Intermittent Haamaturia, on the Treat
ment of Rheumatic Fever, on the Treatment of Taenia, and on Fictitious
 Urticaria were all accurate and original contributions to clinical
knowledge.     But his articles on Paraplegia in the ' Guy's Reports,'
and on Abscess of the Brain in ' Reynolds' System of Medicine,'
established pathological facts of primary importance.            The paper
which he pnblished, in conjunction with Dr. Sutton, upon " Arterio-
capillary Fibrosis" deals with a subject of great difficulty which is
still, and probably will long remain, under investigation.           It un
                                          —
doubtedly gave a new point of view and a most instructive one — to
the student of chronic Bright's disease. His account of Anorexia
 Nervosa was also marked by keenness of discrimination and breadth
                                                                    d

                                       Xll
of view, and it anticipated much that has since been written. The
last important paper he published was on a Cretinoid Condition in
Adult Women.         It announced in succinct and modest fashion the
discovery of a remarkable form of disease, np to that time quite
unrecognised, and the accuracy of its description as well as the
justice of its pathological views have since been entirely confirmed.
   Foremost among clinical physicians of his time, and eminent
among the pathologists, remarkable for the breadth of his views, the
liberality of his condnct, and the native force of his character, Sir
William Gull occupied an eminent position during his life, and has left
a record of work which worthily answers to his great reputation.
                                                              P. H. P. S.
   Stephen    Joseph Perry was born in London on Angust 26th, 1833.
His early education was received at GifFord Hall School, from whence
he went to the Benedictine College at Douay, and then to Rome to
study for the priesthood.       Resolving to join the Society of Jesus, he
returned to Eugland, and on November 14th, 1853, entered on his
novitiate,  and after two years went to France, where he stayed for a
year, returning to Stonyhurst to enter upon a course of mental
philosophy and physical science.          His great ability in mathematical
studies   decided  his   superiors  in  the  Order to allow him to devote
himself specially     to this branch of study, with the result that he
stood sixth on the Mathematical Honours List of London University in
 1858, during which year he attended lectures by De Morgan at
London, and by M. Bertrand and others at Paris.             On his return to
Stonyhurst in    1860   he was   appointed   Professor of  Mathematics and
Director of the Observatory, which posts he filled for three years,
when he went to St. Beuno's College, North Wales, to complete his
theological studies previous to his ordination as priest, in 1866.
   In 1868 he resumed his work at Stonyhurst as Professor and
Director of the Observatory, and continued there until his death, only
leaving the College to take part in scientific expeditions.
   Previous to the appointment of Father Perry to the directorship,
the work done at Stonyhurst Observatory had been chiefly meteoro
logical and magnetic ; it was selected as a first-class meteorological
station in 1866.
   In 1867 the astronomical department was much extended, more
powerful instruments were acquired, and the work undertaken very
much increased.        Spectroscopy was commenced at Stonyhurst in
1870, and    since then   has formed a large portion of the astronomical
work carried on there. In 1872 regular observations of the phenomena
of Jupiter's satellites were begun with the 8-inch Troughton and
Simms equatorial, and with one considerable break, 1875 — 77, have
been continued up to the present time.

                                    xiii
  In    1875 Father Perry instituted a regular series of drawings of the
mai   kings on the Sun from a projected image of 10£ inches diameter,
formed on     a   drawing board attached to the telescope.     This work
was supplemented   by spectroscopic examination and measurement of
the chromosphere    and prominences, and after 1882 by systematic
spectroscopic observations of Sun spots, hi addition to the researches
in solar physics, in connection with which the name of Father Perry
lias become so well known, the ordinary work of an observatory has
been roost diligently carried on at Stonyhurst, the results of which
for the most part have been recorded in the publications of the Royal
Astronomical Society.
   It was not, however, in his work in the Observatory and College
that Father Perry found an outlet for his untiring energy.        His
services were always at the disposal of scientific societies, and he
took part in nearly every astronomical expedition of his tine, an I
although a martyr to sea sickness, he was always ready and willing to
undertake any voyage and undergo any hardship in the cause of the
science he loved.
    His first important scientific work was done in 1868, when, in con
junction with Father Sidgreaves, S.J., he made a magnetic survey of
the West of France.      With the Stonyhurst instruments complete sets
of observations were made at fifteen stations during that year, and
the work being continued the year following observations were obtained
at nineteen other positions in the Kast of France, and thus a valuable
and reliable magnetic survey of that country was- completed.           In
 1871, assisted by Mr. W. Carlisle, of Stonyhurst, Father Perry
carried out a similar work in Belgium, where the disturbing effect of
the coal measures was very clearly indicated in the results obtained,
 which, together with those of the survey of France, were published
in the ' Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society.'
    In 1870 Father Perry was appointed chief of the Solar Eclipse Ex
pedition to Cadiz, his work being principally spectroscopic ; and in
 1874 he was selected by the then Astronomer Royal, Sir G. B. Airy,
to take command of the Transit of Venus Expedition to Kerguelcn
 Island. On September 20th he and his party left the Cape of Good
                                           "
 Hope for Kerguelen Island in H.M.S. Volage," on a journey attended
 by great difficulties and dangers, owing to the feiirful weather usually-
prevailing off Kerguelen Island.         Intense as must have been the
suffering of Father Perry during the voyage, and severe the hardships
of a nineteen weeks' sojourn on the "Island of Desolation," as he
called  it,all were cheerfully borne, every personal consideration being
sacrificed to the astronomical      interests of the Expedition.     The
observations of this transit were imperfect on account of haze, and
the necessity of determining the exact longitude of their station pro
longed the visit of Father Perry and his companions until February
                                                              d   2

                                      xiv
2<ith, 1875, when     the supply of provisions ran short, and it was not
deemed prudent       to  stay longer.   The passage to Durbau was very
rough, the "Volage" being overtaken by a cyclone and sometimes
rolling 45°. Besides the observations of the transit, magnetic obser
vations were made at the Cape, Kerguelcn, Bombay, Aden, Port Said.
Malta, Palermo, Rome, Naples, Florence, and Moncalieri ; and on his
return to England Father Perry gave an account of his work in a
lecture at the Royal Institntion.
    In 1882 he again took charge of a Transit of Venus Expedition,
this time being stationed in Madagascar, and accompanied by Father
 feidgreaves and Mr. Carlisle, his former assistant in Belgium.           The
                                                                     "
party reached their destination on October 22nd, in H.M.S.             Fawn.'"
 Again the    results   obtained  were  incomplete,  wind   and  sand-storms
 interfering with the work, but some very good observations wen-
 made notwithstanding these difficulties.        At the eclipse of August
 2!)th, 1886, Father Perry accompanied the expedition to the West
 Indies, and was stationed at Carriacou. His spectroscopic observa
 tions were communicated to the Royal Society, and published in the
 '
   Philosophical Transactions.'
    In 1887 he was one of the observers sent by the Royal Astronomical
 Society, at the request of Professor Brcdichin, to Pogost, on the
 Volga; but the sky was cloudy and no results were obtained.
    Father Perry whs again, in 1889, placed in command of an expedi
 tion sent by the Royal Astronomical Society, to the Isles do Salut.
off French Cayenne, to photograph the corona during the eclipse of
 December 22ud.        He and his assistant, Mr. Rooney, reached Barba-
 does on November 26th, and arrived at his station on December 7th.
after a trying voyage from Barbadoes, in H.M.S.
                                                          " Comus," during
 which Father Perry suffered severely.       Every assistance was afforded
 by the French Commander, and by the officers and crews of H.M.SS.
           " and " Forward "
   Comus                         during the preliminary arrangements, but
 the necessary adjustments required exposure to the unhealthy night
 air, and this so told upon Father Perry, in his already weakened
 state, that on the day before the eclipse he was very ill indeed from
 dysentery ; so ill that it was feared that he would be unable to take
 part in the observations of the eclipse.       However, by a tremendous
 effort he overcame his pain and weakness sufficiently to successfully
 carry out all the instructions he had received, but, exhausted by this
 great effort, he became dangerously ill after the excitement which
 had sustained him was over, and was taken on board the " Comus."
 On December 26th he was slightly better, but, a relapse occurred and
 Father Perry died at 4.30 p.m., on December 27th. His body was
 interred in the Catholic Cemetery at Demerara, on Decern Iter 28th.
    Father Perry was a very popular and able lecturer.            On several
occasions    he  has   lectured  at the  Royal Institution,  the last  time, u

                                     XV
few months before his death, on the work at Stonyhurst in <rounexion
with solar physics during the last ten years.          He also frequently
lectured, on astronomical subjects in the large towns in the North of
England.
    At the time of his departure from England, on the expedition
that resnltod in his death. Father Perry was contemplating a full
discussion of all the work curried on at Stonyhurst, a work which
would undoubtedly have formed a most valuable contribution to unr
knowledge of solar physics.
     Father Perry was elected a Fellow of this Society in 1874, and
in November, 1889, was made a member of the Council for the
ensuing year.        He became a Fellow of the Royal Astronomical
Society in 1869, and was also a member of the Council of that
 Society.     He was a Fellow of the Royal Meteorological Society and
 the Physical Society of London, and was President of the Liverpool
 Astronomical Society at the time of his death.
     Of foreign Societies, he was a Member of the Aecademia dei Nuovi
 Lineei, of the Societe Scientifique de Bruxelles, and of the Societe
 Geographique d'Anvers. He has been for several years a member of
 the Committee on Solar Physics appointed by the Lords of the Com
 mittee of Council on Education, and of the British Association
 Committee for comparing and reducing Magnetic Observations.             In
  1887 and 1889 Father Perry assisted at the International Congresses
 on Astronomical Photography held at Paris.           In 1880 he received
  the degree of D.Sc. from the Royal University of Ireland.
     In the death of Father Perry science has sustained a loss univer
  sally felt and most deeply regretted by all labourers in that branch to
  which his heroic self-sacrifice and never-failing energy have con
  tributed so much.                                            A. A. C.
     Wilmam Kitchen Parker, born at his father's farm at Dogsthorpe,
  near Peterborough, June 23, 1823, died suddenly, of syneope of the
  heart, whilst visiting his second son, Professor W. Newton Parker, at
  Cardiff, July 3, 1890. Whilst cheerfully talking of late discoveries and
  future work in his favourite biological pursuits, he ceased to breathe.
  Accustomed to outdoor life, he was a true lover of nature from the first ;
  the forms, habits, and voices of birds, especially, he knew at an early
  age.   Village schooling at Dogsthorpe and Werrington, and a short
  period   at Peterborough Grammar School, prepared him for an
  apprenticeship, at fifteen years of age, to Mr. Woodroffe, chemist and
  druggist, at Stamford; and three years afterwards he was ap
  prenticed to Mr. Costal, medical practitioner, at Market-Overton. At
  Stamford, studying botany earnestly, he collected and named more
  than 500 species of plants.   The fauna also of the fen lands attracted
   his attention- -in Borough Fen, Thorpe Fen, Whittlesea, Deeping,

                                     XV
and Crowlaud.        Both when living under bis father's roof, and in his
holidays   afterwards,   he kept many pet animals, and dissected what
ever he could get, including a donkey and many birds.         Of the latter
he prepai-ed skeletons ; and of these he made large drawings at
Market-Overton, which of late years he had some thought of pub
lishing as an atlas of the osteology of birds.
   Without the advantages of a university education, and with none
of those aids to learning afforded by the science schools of the
present day, he owed all the knowledge which he acquired to an
intense love of nature, prompting and developing a taste for original
research ; and this, in spite of many obstacles, he assiduously culti
vated to the last.
   In December, 1844,       he came to   London, and entered      Charing-
Cross Hospital as a medical student.       Having had an introduction to
 Dr. Todd, he was cordially received by him and encouraged to work
in his physiological laboratory at King's College; and for a time
he was prosector at Dr. Todd's lectures.      He qualified as Licentiate of
the Society    of Apothecaries in 1849, and commenced to practice at
Tachbrook    Street,  Pimlico. Soon afterwards he married Miss Elizabeth
Jeffery. His wife's patient calmness under all difficulties and trials
was a true blessing to a man of Mr. Parker's excitable temperament
and indifferent health ; and her unselfish life and wide-spread in
fluence   for good are well known in and beyond the family circle.
Unfortunately, he was left a widower about four months before his
death.    He left three daughters and four sons.      Of the latter, one is
a Fellow of the Royal Society, and Professor of Zoology and Com
parative Anatomy in the University of Otago, New Zealand ; the
second is Professor of Biology in the University College at Cardiff,
 South Wales ; the third is an able draughtsman and lithographer ;
and the fourth has taken his diplomas of L.R.C.P. and M.R.C.S.
    Mr. Parker had a good father, courteous and gentle by nature,
conscientious, and earnest in business, who had worked hard to be
able to give even his youngest son, Mr. W. K. Parker, " a start in
life." From his placid and thoughtful mother he probably inherited
much of his love of reading and readiness to learn.
    Always energetic, in spite of ill-health, Mr. Parker enthusiastically
carried on his medical work and his natural-history studies, especially
in the microscopical structure of animal and vegetable tissues.
Polyzoa and Foratninifera, collected on a visit to Bo^nor, and from
among sponge-sands and Oriental sea-shells, especially engaged his
attention.    Having sorted, mounted, and drawn numbers of these
Microzoa, he was induced, about 1856, by his friends W. Crawford
Williamson and T. Rupert Jones to work at the Foraminifera syste
matically. His paper on the Miliolitidcc of the Indian Seas (' Transact.
Microscopical Society,' 1858), and a joint paper (with T. R. Jones)

                                    xvii
on    tlie Foraminifera  of the Norwegian Coast (' Annals and Mag.
Nat. Hist.,' 1857) resulted ; and the latter formed the basis of a memoir
           " Arctic and North- Atlantic Foraminifera "
on the                                                    (' Phil. Tran6.,'
1865).      With T. Rupert Jones, and afterwards with W. B. Carpenter
and H. B. Biudy, Mr. Parker, down to 1873, described and illustrated
many groups and species of Foraminifera, recent and fossil (see
Sherborn's recent' Bibliography of Foraminifera,' for these papers and
memoirs), thereby establishing more accurately a natural classifica
tion of these Protozoa, determining their bathymetrical conditions,
and therefore their value in geology.      The important share which lie
took in the preparation       of Dr. Carpenter's ' Introduction to the
Study of the Foraminifera,' 4to, published by the Ray Society in
1862, is acknowledged       in the preface of that handsome volume.
That he did not neglect anatomical research i* shown by memoirs in
the Proceedings and Transactions of the Linnean, Zoological, and
Microscopical Societies on the osteology (chiefly cranial) and syste
matic position of lialtr.niceps (18G0), 1'terodvs (1802), Palamedea
(1863), Gallinaceous Birds and Tinamous (1862 and 1866), Kagu
 (1864 and 1869), Parrot (1865), Ostriches (I860), Microglossa (1865),
Common Fowl (1869), Eel ('Nature,' 1871), skull of Frog (1871), of
 Crow (1872), Salmon, Tit, Sparrow-hawk, Thrushes, Sturgeon, Pig,
and .JSgithognathous Birds (1873), Woodpeckerand Passeres (1875).
In the meantime the Ray Society had brought out his valuable
 '
    Monograph on the Structure and Development of the Shoulder-
girdle and Sternum in the Vertebrata' (1868); and his Presidential
 addresses to the Royal Microscopical Society (1872, 1873), and notes
on the Archaopteryx       (1864) and the fossil Bird bones from the
 Zebbug Cave, Malta (1865 and 1862), had been published.            Subse
quently the Royal Society's Transactions contained his abundantly
illustrated memoirs on the skull of the Batrachia (1878 and 1880),
of the Urodelous Amphibia (1877), the Common Snake (1878),
 Sturgeon (1882), Lepidusteus (1882), Edentata (1886), Insectivora
 (1886), and his elaborate memoir on the development of the wing of
 the Common Fowl (1888^.        In the ' Reports of the " Challenger " ' is
 his memoir on the Green Turtle (1880).          Those on the Cypselida1
  (' Zoologist,' 1889), on Tarsi}** (Dundee, 1889), the Duck and the
 Auk (Dublin, 1890), Gallinaceous Birds (for the Linnean Society),
 and the Hoatzin (Opistkocamus cristatus) for the Zoological Society,
 are his last works.
     In former times a skull was regarded as little more than a dry,
 symmetrical, bony structure ; or, if it were the cartilaginous brain-
 case of a shark, it was to most a mere dried museum specimen.
 When, however, the gradations of the elements of the skull, from
  embryonic beginnings, were traced until their mutual relations anil
  their hemologues in other Vertebrates were established, light was

                                     win
thrown on the wonderful completeness          of organic uniformity and
singleness of design.       How such studies   can be carried on both bv
minute     dissection and the modern art of parallel   slicing, and not by
one method alone, is to be gathered from his teaching.
     As a draughtsman, Mr. Parker particularly excelled, and the value
of his numerous memoirs was greatly enhanced by the excellence of
 the plates, the figures in which were drawn by himself.        The article
       the Anatomy of Birds in the ' Encyclopajdia Britannica
                                                                     '
on                                                                     also
 bears evidence    to his industry and  knowledge.
     No man can have worked harder at science, in the intervals of
professional duties, than he did, and it is scarcely surprising that the
short intervals which he allowed himself for rest affected his health
and compelled him to limit his practice.           Like a true naturalist,
 however, he allowed his love of science to triumph over any desire
for worldly gain, and it was well knosvn to bis friends that some of
 his best scientific     work was accomplished during actnnl physical
suffering, furnishing him. as he would say, witli a pleasant distrac
 tion from his ailments.
     In 1864 he was elected into the Zoological Society without the
 usual fees; and soon afterwards the Linnean Society paid him the
 same high compliment.
     Mr. Parker was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1865, and
 in the year following he received a Royal Medal for his comprehen
 sive, exact, and useful researches in the developmental osteology, or
 embryonal morphology, of Vertebrates.          Some few years afterwards
 the Royal Society made him an annual grant to aid in the prosecution
 of his studies ; and, when that was discontinued, a pension from the
 Crown was graciously and appropriately awarded to him. A
 generous friend, belonging to a well-known Wesleyan family, more
  than once presented £100 towards the cost of some of the numerous
                                                   '
  plates illustrating his grand memoirs in the Philosophical Transac
  tions.'   He was elected Fellow of King's College, London, in 1875.
  In 1873 he had received the diploma as Member of the Royal College
  of Surgeons,      and was appointed Hunterian Professor of Com
  parative   Anatomy    and Physiology', Professor Flower being invalided
  for a time ; and aferwards both held the Professorship conjointly.
  His earnestness and wide views were well appreciated, opening up the
  modern aspect of comparative anatomy, and showing that both in
  Man and the Lower Vertebrates the wonderful structural develop
  ment of their bony framework should be studied in a strictly
  morphological rather than a teleological method, and that its stages
  and resultant forms could be regarded only in the Darwinian aspect.
      These lectures, given in abstract in the medical journals, became
   the basis of his 'Morphology of the Skull,' in editing which Mr. G.
  T. Bettany ably assisted him; and in. a less scientific book, 'On

                                     xix
 Mammalian Descent,' another friend (Miss Arabella Buckley, now
 Mrs. Fisher) similarly helped him. In the latter work, his own
 usual style frequently predominates, full of metaphor and quaint
 allusions, originating in his imaginative and indeed poetic mind,
 fully impregnated with ideas and expressions frequent in his favourite
 and much-read books — Shakespeare, Bacon, Milton, some of the old
 divines, and, above all, the old English Bible.
    Separating himself from the trammels of foregone conclusions, and
 from the formulated, but imperfect, misleading conceptions of some
 of his predecessors in biology, whom he left for the teaching of Rathke,
 Gegenbaur, and Huxley, Professor W. K. Parker earnestly inculcated
 the necessity of single-sighted research, and the following up of any
 unbiassed elucidations, to whatever natural conclusion they may lead.
 Simple and firm in Christian faith, resolute in scientific research, he
 felt free from dread of any real collision between science and religion.
 He insisted that " our proper work is not that of straining our too
feeble faculties at system-building, but humble and patient attention
 to what nature herself teaches, comparing actual things with actual
                                                                         "
 ('Proc. Zool. Soc.,' 1864) ; and in his "Shoulder-girdle, &c," p. 2,
he writes :
              " Then, in the times to come, when we have '
                                                                 prepared
our work without, and made it fit for ourselves in the field,' we shall
                     '                     '
be able to build a     system of anatomy which shall truly represent
Nature, and not be a mere reflection of the mind of some one of
her talented observers."
   Again, at p. 22.5, in illustration of some results of his work, he
          "
says : — The first instance I have given of the Shoulder-girdle (in
the Skate) may be compared to a clay model in its first stage, or to
                                                         '
the heavy oaken furniture of our forefathers, that stood pond'rous
and fixed by its own massy weight.' As we ascend the Vertebrate
scale, the mass becomes more elegant, more subdivided, and more
metamorphosed, until, in the Bird class and among the Mammals,
these parts form the framework of limbs than which nothing can be
imagined more agile or more apt. So also, as it regards the sternum ;
at first a mere outcropping of the feebly developed costal arches in
the Amphibia, it becomes the key-stone of perfect arches in
the true Reptile ; then the fulcrum of the exquisitely constructed
organs of flight in the Bird ; and, lastly, forms the mobile front-wall
of the heaving chest of the highest Vertebrate."
   Professor W. K. Parker was a Fellow of the Royal, Linnean,
Zoological,   and Royal Microscopical Societies; Fellow of King's
College, London ; Honorary Member of the Philosophical Society of
Cambridge, and the Medical and Chirurgical Society. He was also a
Member of the Imperial Society of Naturalists of Moscow, and Corre
sponding Member of the Imperial Geological Institute of Vienna,
and the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.         In 1885 he
                                                               d 3

                                        XX
  received   from the Royal College       of Physicians the Bayly Medal,
  " Ob                   feliciter excultam."
         physiologiam
     In conversations shortly before his death, he often spoke of looking
  forward throughout his life-time (alas ! how quickly shortened !) to
  continued application of all the energy he could devote to his useful
  work — at once a consolation to him and a duty.
     He has well expressed his own view on biological pursuits, at
                                                     "
  p. 363 of the 'Morphology of the Skull' : — The study of animal
 morphology leads to continually grander and more reverent views of
 creation and of a Creator.          Each fresh advance shows us further
 fields for conquest, and at the same time deepens the conviction that,
 while results and secondary operations may be discovered by human
                 '
 intelligence,     no man can find out the work that God maketh from
 the beginning to the end.'         We live as in a twilight of knowledge,
 charged    with   revelations   of order and beauty ; we steadfastly look
 for a perfect light, which shall reveal perfect order and beauty."
     An unworldly seeker after truth, and loved by all who knew him
 for his uprightness, modesty, unselfishness, and generosity to fellow-
 workers, always helping young inquirers with specimens and infor
 mation, he is lost to sight as a friend and father, bnt lives in the
 minds of his fellow-workers, of those whom he so freely taught, and of
 his bereaved relatives, as a great and good man, whose beneficent in
 fluence will ever be felt in a wide-spreading and advancing science
 by thoughtful and appreciative men.
                                                  T. R. J. and J. E. H.
     Robert William Mylne, who died in July,         1890, aged 74, was for
 thirty years a Fellow of the Royal Society, to which also his father
 and his grandfather belonged.          He was descended from a family
 eminent for several generations in architecture and engineering, his
 grandfather, Robert Mylne, F.R.S., and his father, William Chadwell
Mylne, F.R.S., both having been engineers of eminence, and both
attached to the New River Company.
    Robert William Mylne was closely associated with his father in the
active management of the New River Company.                He was also for
some years engineer to the Limerick Water Company, and was fre
quently consulted npon wells and water-supply both by the Govern
ment and private companies, and at one period of his life often gave
scientific evidence on Water Bills before the House of Commons.         He
obtained a good water-supply for one of the sunk forts in the sea off
Portsmouth, and was employed on the well at Tilbury and other
fortifications.
    In the department       of geology he was, perhaps, best known, and
his geological map of London and the neighbourhood, a work of
immense labour and expense, was long a standard authority amongst

                                       xxi
si-icntific   men.    He   also prepared   many other maps, which are less
widely known.
    Hi' always devoted much time to the study of archaeology and anti
quarian matters, and was preparing an elaborate work on the archi
tectural antiquities of Eastern Scotland at the time of his death.
He was      thirty years a Governor of Bridewell and Bethlehem Hospitals.
He was also a Follow of the Society of Antiquaries of London, and
of Scotland, a Fellow of the Geological Society of England, and also
of France, and a Member of the Smeatonian Society of Civil Engi
neers,     lie  was also indirectly connected with the water works nt
Frankfort       and Buda Pesth, and the Canal du Midi, in Southern
France.
                                                              W. B.  1)


                          INDEX to VOL. XLVIII.
 AIR,    on the specific heats of gn.«es »t   Bosanquet (Robert Holford Maedowall)
    constant Tolume. Fart I. Carbon di           elected, 104.
    oxide, hydrogen, and (Joly),440.                 admitted, 151.
 Alloys of nickel and iron, magnetic pro      British earthquakes of       1889, on the
    perties of (Hopkinson), 1.                    (Davison), 275.
Alloys, on certain ternary.       Part   II   Brontometcr, on barometric oscillation-
    (Wright and Thompson), 25.                   during thunderstorms, and on the,
 Ampkioxm, on the development of the             an instrument designed to facilitate
    atrial chamber of (Willey), SO.              their study (Symons), 59.
 Andrews (T.) observations on pure ice,       Bin-bury (Samuel Hawksley) elected, 104.
    Part II, 106.                                    admitted, 151.
       the passiTe state of iron and steel.   Bun-h (G. J.) on a method of deter
    Part I, 116.                                 mining the value of rapid variations
Anniversary meeting. 464.                        of a diilerence of potential by means
Auditors elected, 434.                           of the capillary electrometer, 89.
       report of, 4C4.                        —      and V. II. Veley, the variations of
                                                  electromotive torce of cells consisting
Barillti*    anthracii, the chemical pro         of certain mctuls, platinum, una nitric
   ducts    of the growth of, and their          acid, 460.
   physiologic*] action (Martin), 78.
Bacteria-killing globulin, a (Hankin).        Camphor, on the action of oils on the
   93.                                      !    motions of, on the surface of water
Baker    (Sir Benjamin) elected. 104.             (Tomlinson), 258.
       admitted, 151.                       i Cancer, a note on an experimental in
liallauce (C. A.) and S. G. Shattock, a          vestigation into the pathology of
   note on an experimental investigation          (Ballnnce and Shattock), 23, 392.
   into the pathology of cancer, 23, 392.     Candidates for election, list of, 1.
Barometric oscillations during thunder        Capillary electrometer, on a method of
   storms, on, and on the brontometcr.           determining the value of rapid varia
   an instrument designed to facilitate          tions of a difference of potential by
   their study (Symons), 59.                     means of the (Burch), 89.
Beddard (F. E.) on the homology be            Carbon dioxide, on tho specific heats of
   tween genital ducts and ncphridia in          gases at constant volume.       Part I.
   the Oligochtcta, 452.                         Air, hydrogen, and (Joly), 440.
Beevor (C. E.) on the course of the fibres    Castor-oil plant (Ricinus communis),
   of the cingulum and the posterior             on the germination of the seed of the
   parts of the corpus callosum and of the       (Green), 370.
   fornix in the marmoset monkey, 271.        Chaney (H. J.) re-determination of the
         and V. Horsley, a record of             true weight of a cubic inch of distilled
   the    results obtained by electrical         water, 230.
   excitation of the so-called      motor     Cingulum, on the course of the fibres of
   cortex and internal capsule in an             the, and the posterior parts of the
*
   orang outang (Siaia aali/rus), 159.           corpus callosum and of the fornix in
Bile and ita constituents, a further note        the marmoset     monkey (Beevor), 271.
   on the influence of, on pancreatic         Circulation      and respiration,  on the
   digestion (Martin and Williams), 160.         changes produced in the, by increase
Boiling and freezing points, on the              of the intracranial pressure or tension
  determination of some, by means of             (Spencer and Horsley), 273.
  the platinum thermometer (Griffiths) ,      Clausius (Rudolf Julius K.) obituary
   220.                                          notice of, i.

xxiv                                        INDEX.
Cockle (Sir James)       elected  an  auditor,  I  Foster     (Or.  Carey) elected an  auditor.
   134.                                                434.
Colour box, experiments with Lord                  Freezing and boiling points, on the
   Rayleigh's (Schuster), 140.                        determination of some, by means of
Comet a 1890 and the nebula G.C.                       the platinum thermometer (Griffiths).
   4058, on the spectra of (Lockyer),           I     220.
   165, 217.
Common (A. A.) elected an auditor, 434.            Galton (F.) the patterns in thumb and
Corpus callosum and fornix in the                      finger marks : on their arrangement
   marmoset monkey, on the course of                   into naturally distinct classes, the
   the fibres of the cingulum and the                  permanence      of the papillary rHges
   posterior parts of the (Beevor), 271.              that make them, and the resemblance
Council, nomination of, 452.                           of their classes to ordinary genera,
       election  of, 475.                             455.
                                                   Gardiner (Walter) elected, 104.
Darwin (G. II.) on the harmonic ana                         admitted, 151.
   lysis of tidal observations of high and         Gases, on the specific heats of, at con
   low water, 278.                                     stant volume. Part I. Air, carbon
Davison (C.) on the British earthquakes                dioxide, and hydrogen (Joly), 440.
   of 1889, 276.                                   Genital ducts and nephridia in the
Dcwar      (J)   and G. D. Livcing,        the         Oligochaita, on the homology be
   spectroscopic properties of dust, 437.              tween (Beddard), -152.
Dines (\V. H.) on wind pressure upon               Germination of the seed of the castor-
   an inclined surface, 233.                           oil plant (Ricinus communis), on the
Diphtheria, a contribution to the etio                  (Green), 370.
   logy of (Klein), 71.                            Globulin, a bacteria-killing (Hankin),
Donation Fund, grants from the, 490.                   93.
Dust, the spectroscopic          properties of     Government Grant, of 4,000/., account
    (Liveing and Dewar), 437.                          of the appropriation of the, 486.
                                                   Gravity, account of rtcent pendulum
 Earthquakes of 1889, on the British                   operations for determining the relative
    (Davison), 275.                                     force of, at the Kew and the Green
 Election of Fellows, 104.                             wich observatories (Walker), 105.
 Electric currents, on the heating effects         Green (J. K.) on the germination of
   of. No. IV (Proece), 68.                            the seed of the castor-oil plant (Rii-i-
 Electrical excitation of the so-called          |      nus communis) , 370.
   motor cortex and internal capsule in            Greenwich         and Kew observatories,
   an orang outang (Simia saturus), a                   account    of rec ent pendulum opera
   record     of the results obtained by                tions for determining the relative
    (Beevor and Horsley), 159.                         force of gravity at the (Walker), 105.
 Electromotive force of cells consisting           Grilhths (E. H.) on the determination
   of certain metals, platinum, and nitric              of some boiling and freezing point*
    acid, the variations of (Burch ami                  by means of the platinum thermo
    Veley), 460.                                        meter, 220.
 Kwing (J. A.) contributions to the                Gull (Sir William) obituary notice of,
    molecular theory of induced magnet                  viii.
    ism, 342.
                                                    Hankin        (E. H.) a bacteria-killing
 Fellows deceased, 464.                                 globulin, 93.
        elected,  104, 465.                         Harmonic analysis of tidal observations
 Financial statement, 477.                              of high and low water,         on   the
 Kingcr marks, the patterns in thumb                     (Darwin), 278.
    nnd :    on    their arrangement into           Hcape (W.) preliminary note on the
    naturally distinct classes, the per                 transplantation and growth of mam
    manence of the | apilhiry ridges that               mal Ian ova within a uterine foster-
    make them, and the resemblance           of         mother, 457.
    their classes      to   ordinary-   genera      IIopkiiiBon (J.) magnetic properties of
    (Ualton), 455.                                      alloys of nickel and iron, 1.
 Fornix and corpus callosum in the                          magnetism and recalescencc, 442.
    marmoset monkey, on the course of               Hor6ley (V.) and C. E. Beevor, a record
    the fibres of the cingulum and the                  of the results obtained by electrical
    posterior parts of the (Beevor), 271.                excitation of the so-called motor

                                               INDEX.                                          XXV
   cortex and internal capsule in an                   the.      Part I.     Excitation     experi
   orang outang (Simia satyrtta), 159.                 ments    (Semon    and Horsley),    341.
                                                   " Latent
Horsley (V.) and P. Senion, an experi                             stimulation,"       photographic
   mental investigation of the central                 determination of the time-relations
   motor innervation          of the larynx.           of the changes which take place in
   Part 1.         Excitation      experiments,        muscle during the period of so-called
   341.                                                (Sanderson), 14.
         and W.         Spencer,       on    the   Lea (Arthur Sheridan) elected, 104.
   changes produced in the circulation                     admitted, 151.
   and respiration        by increase of the       Liquid in motion, on the alleged slip
   intracranial pressure or tension, 273.              ping at the boundary of a (Whetham) ,
Huggim (W.) and Mrs. Muggins, note                     225.
   on the photographic spectrum of the             Liveing     (Or.   D.) and J. Deuar, the
   great nebula in Orion, 151, 213.                    spectroscopic    properties of dust, 437.
               on a new group of liues in          Lockyer (J. N.) note on the spectrum of
   the photographic spectrum of Sirius,
    152, 216.                                      —  the nebula of Orion, 19H.
                                                           on the chief line in the spectrum
          — on    a  re-determination of the          of the nebula;, 167.
   principal line in the spectrum of the                   on the spectra of comet a 1890 and
   nebula in Orion, and on the character              the nebula O.C. 4058, 165, 217.
   of the line, 151, 202.                                  preliminary note on photographs of
Hydrogen, on the specific heats of gases,             tho spectrum of the nebula in Orion,
   at constant volume.            Part I. Air,         199.
   carbon dioxide, and (Joly), 4-10.
                                                   McConnel        (J. C.) on the plasticity of
Ice, observations on pure.              Part   II     an ico     crystal. (Preliminary note).
    (Andrews), 100.                                   259.
 Ice crystal, on the plasticity of an.             MacMahon          (Percy Alexander^     elected,
    Preliminary note (McC'onnel), 259.                104.
 Internal capsule in an orang outaug                      admitted, 151.
    (Simia *atyru*), a record of the               Magnotic permeability of rocks and
   result* obtained by electrical excita              regional magnetic         disturbances,    on
   tion of the so-called motor cortex and             the relation between (Riicker), 358,
    (Beevor and Horsley), 159.                        505.
 Intracranial pressure or tension, on the          Magnetic properties of alloys of nickel
   changes produced in the circulation                and iron (Hopkinson), 1.
   and respiraton by increase of the               Magnetism, contributions to the mole
    (Spencer and Horsley), £73.                       cular theory of induced (Ewing), 342.
Iron and nickel, magnetic properties of                    on the causes of the phenomena of
   alloys of (Uopkinson), 1.                          terrestrial, and on some electro-me
Iron and steel, the passive state of.                 chanism for exhibiting the secular
   Part   I  (Andrews), 116.                          changes in its horizontal and vertical
                                                      components (Wilde), 358.
Joly (J.)    on the   specific   heats of gases             and recaleseence         (Hopkinson).
   at constant volume.           Part I. Air,         442.
   carbou dioxide, and hydrogen, 440.              Magnetometer, preliminary note on a
Jones (J. V.) on the determination of                 new (Stroud), 260.
   the specific resistance of mercury in           Mammalian ova, preliminary note on
   absolute measure, 434.                             the transplantation and growth of,
                                                      within       a    uterine     foster-mother
Kerr (John)      elected,   104.                      (Heape), 457.
      ¦admitted, 220.                              Mammals, the development of the sym
Kew      and Greenwich           observatories,       pathetic nervous system in (PatersonJ,
   account of recent pendulum opera                   19.
   tions for determining the relative              Marmoset monkey, on the course of the
   force of gravity at the (Walker), 105.             fibres of the cinguluni and the poste
Kew Committee, report of, 491.                        rior parts of the corpus callosum ami
Klein (E.) a contribution to the etio                 of the fornix in the (Beevor), 271.
   logy of diphtheria, 71.                         Martin (S.) the chemical products of
                                                      the growth of Barillas anlhracia and
Larynx,     an  experimental investigation            their physiological action, 78.
   of  the   central motor innervatiou of                  and D. Williams, u further nole

XXVI                                      I.VDEX.
  on tho influence of bile and its con         Obituary notices (ronld.) : —
  stituents on pancreatic digestion, 100.         Mylne, Robert William, xx.
Medals, presentation of the, 472.                 Parker, William Kitchen, xv.
Mercury,     on the determination of the          Perry, Stephen Joseph, xii.
  specific    resistance    of, in absolute    Officers, nomination of, 452.
  measure     (Jones), 434.                           election of, 475.
Metals, the conditions of chemical             Oils, on the action of, on the motions of
  change between nitric acid and cer              camphor on the surface of water
  tain (Veley), 4i8.                              (Tomlinson), 258.
Molecular theory of induced magnetism,         Oligochoeta, on the homology betweeu
  contributions to the (Kwing), 342.              genital ducts and nephridia in the
Monkey, marmoset, on the course of the            ( Beddard), 452.
  fibres of the cingulum and the poste         Orang outang {Simia sati/rua), a record
  rior parts of the corpus callosum and           of the results obtained by electrical
  of the fornix in the (Becvor), 271.             excitation of the so-called motor cortex
Motor cortex and internal capsule in an           and internal capsule in an (Beevor
  orangoutang (Simia *atyrus),& record            and Horsley), 159.
  of the results obtained by electrical        Orion, note on the photographic spec
  excitation of the so-culled (Bcevor             trum of the great nebula in (Huggins
  and Horeley), 159.                              and Huggins), 151, 213.
Muscle, photographic determination of                 note on the spectrum of the nebula
  the time-relations of the changes               of (Lockyer), 198.
  which take place in. during the period              on a re-determination of the prin
  of so-called
                     " latent stimulation "       cipal line in the spectrum of the
  (Sanderson), 14.                                nebula in, and on the character of
Mylne       (Robert     William)   obituary-      the line (Huggins and Huggins), 151,
  notice of, xx.                                  202.
                                                      preliminary note on photographs
Nebula     O.C.   4058, on the spectra of         of the spectrum of the nebula in,
  comet a 1890 and the (Lockver), 165,            (Lockyer). 199.
  217.                                         Ora, within a uterine foster-mother,
¦     ¦ in   Orion, note on the photo-            preliminary note on the transplanta
                                                  tion and growth of mammalian,
                                                  (lleape), 457.
       in Orion, on a re-determination
  of the principal line in the spectrum        Pancreatic digestion, a further note on
  of the, and on the character of the             the influence of bile and its consti
  line (Huggins and Muggins), 151, 202.           tuents on (Martin and Williams), 160.
        in Orion, preliminary note on          1'arker     (William Kitchen) obituary
  photographs of the spectrum of the              notice of, xv.
   (Lockycr), 199.                             Passive state of iron and steel.     Part I
        of Orion, note on the spectrum            (Andrews), 116.
  of the (Lockyer), 198.                       Paterson (A. M.) the development of
Nebula;, on the chief line in the spec            the sympathetic nervous      system in
  trum of the (Lockycr), 167.                     mammals,     19.
Nephridia in the Oligochsfta, on the           Pendulum      operations for determining
  homology between genital ducts and              the relative force of gravity at. the
  (Beddard), 452.                                 Kew and the Greenwich observatories,
Nervous system in mammals, the de                 account of recent (Walker), 105.
  velopment of the sympathetic (Pater-         Perkin (William Henry, jun.) elected,
  son), 19.                                        104.
Nickel and iron, magnetic properties of        Perkin (William Henry, jun.) admitted,
  alloys of (Hopkinson), 1.                       220.
Nitric acid and certain metals, the con        Perman (E. P.) experiments on yapour-
  ditions of chemical change between              density, 45.
  (Veley), 458.                                Perry (Stephen Joseph) obituary notice
Norman (Rev. Alfred Merle) elected,               of, xii.
  104.                                         Photographic determination of the time-
                                                  relations of the changes which take
Obituary notices :—                               place in muscle during the period of
                                                  so-called " latent stimulation
                                                                                  "
  ( 'Imisius, Rudolf Julius E., i.                                                   (San
  Hull, Sir William, viit.                        derson), 14.

                                           INDEX.                                    xxvii
 Photographic spectrum of Sirius, on si         Semon (F.) on the position of the vocal
    new group of lines in the (Huggins             cords in quiet respiration in man, and
    and Huggins), 152, 2t(5.                       on the reflcx-tonus of their abductor
—            of the great nebula in Orion,         muscles, 156, 403.
    not* on the (Huggins and Huggins),                   and    V. Ilorsley,   an    experi
    151. 213.                                      mental investigation of the central
Photographs       of the spectrum of the           motor innervation of the larynx.
    nebula in Orion, preliminary note on           Part I. Excitation experiments, 341 .
    (Loekyer), 190.                             Sharp (David) elected, 104.
Pickering (Spencer Unifreville) elected,               admitted, 220.
    104.                                      | Shattock (S. G.) and C. A. Ballance, a
              admitted. 151.                       note on an experimental investigation
l'liitimim thermometer, on the determi             into the pathology of cancer, 23, 392.
    nation of some boiling and freezing         (Si win KatyrHx) a record of the results
   points by mean* of the (Griffiths), 220.        obtained by electrical excitation of the
Potential, on a method of determining              so-called    motor cortex and internal
   the Yulue of rapid variations of a              capsule in an orang outang (Beevor
   difference of, by means of the capil            and Ilorsley), 159.
   lary electrometer (Burch), 89.               Sirius, on a new group of lines in the
Preece (W. II.) on the heating effects             photographic spectrum of (Huggins
   of electric currents. No. IV, GS.               and Huggins), 152, 216.
Presents, list of, 23, 68, 101, 119, 165,       Specific heats of gases at constant
    359, 416, 461.                                 volume, on the. Part I. Air, carbon
President, address of the, 465.                    dioxide, anil hydrogen (Joly), 440.
Price (Ker. B.) elected an auditor,      131.           resistance of mercury in absolute
                                                    measure, on the determination of the
Rie (Dr.)     elected an auditor, 434.              (Jones), 434.
Rayleigh (Lord) on the superficial vis          Spectra of comet a 1890 and the nebula
    cosity of water, 127.                          G.C. 4058, on the (Loekyer), 165,
Rayleigh's (Lord) colour box, experi               217.
    ments with (Schuster) , 140.                Spectroscopic properties of dust, the
Recalcscence and magnetism         (Hopkin-         (Liveing and Dewar), 437.
    son),  442.                                 Spectrum of Sirius, on u new group of
Respiration       and circulation, on the          lines in the photographic (Huggins
    changes produced in the, by increase            and Huggins), 152, 216.
    of the intracranial pressure or tension             of the great nebula in Orion, note
    (Spencer and florsley), 273.                   on the photographic (Huggins and
Respiration in man, on the position of              Huggins), 151, 213.
    the vocal cords in quiet, and on the                of the nebula in Orion, on a re
    reflex-tonus of their abductor muscles         determination of the principal line in
    (Scmon), 150, 403.                             the, and en the character of the line
(Ririniu) communis) on the germination              (Huggins and Huggins), 151, 202.
    of the seed of the castor-oil plant                 of the nebula in Orion, preliminary
    (Green). 370.                                  note on photographs of the (Loekyer),
Roberts (Isaac) elected, 104.                       199.
        admitted, 151.                                  of the nebula of Orion, note on the
 Rocks, on the relation between the mag             (Loekyer), 198.
    netic permeability of, and regional                 of the nebula?, on the chief line in
    magnetic disturbances (Riicker), 358,           spectrum of the (Loekyer), 167.
    505.                                        Spencer (W.) and V. Horslcy, on the
Riicker (A. W.) on the relation between             changes produced in the circulation
    the magnetic permeability of rocks              and respiration by increase of the
    and regional magnetic disturbances,             intracranial pressure or tension, 273.
    358, 505.                                    (Sphenodon       punvtalum)    preliminary
                                                    note on the      development of the
Sanderson      (J. B.) photographic deter           tuatara (Thomas), 152.
    mination of the time-relations of the       Steel and iron, the passive state of.
    changes which take place in muscle              Part I (Andrews), 116.
                                     " latent   Stroud (W.) preliminary note on a new
    during the period of so-cajled
    stimulation," 14.                               magnetometer,    260.
Schuster     (A.) experiments with Lord         Symons (G. J.) on barometric oscilla
     Rayleigh's colour box, 140.                    tions during thunderstorms, and on

 xxviii                                       INDEX.
    tho    brontomotor,      an    instrument      Vapour-density, experiments on (Per-
    designed   to facilitate their study, 59.         man), 45.
 Sympathetic nervous system in mam                 Vcley (V. H.) the conditions of chemi
     mals, the development of tho (Puter-             cal change between nitric acid and
     son), 19.                                        certain metals, 458.
                                                          and G. J. Burch, the variations of
 Teal!   (J. J. Harris) elected, 104.                 electromotive force of cells consisting
        admitted, 151.                                of certain metals, platinum, and nitric
 Ternary alloys, on certain. Part            II       acid, 460.
     (Wright and Thompson), 25.                    Viscosity of water, on the superficial
 Terrestrial magnetism, on the causes of              (Raylcigh). 127.
    the phenomena of. and on 6omo                  Vocal curds in quiet respiration in man,
    electro-mechanism for exhibiting the              on tho position of the, and on the
    secular changes in its horizontal and             rcfloxton'is of their abductor muscles
    vertical components (Wilde), 358.                 (Semon), 156, 403.
 Thermometer, on the determination of
     some boiling and freezing points by           Walker (Gen.) account of recent p-n-
    means of the platinum (Grillitbs),                dulum operations for determining the
    220.                                              relative force of gravity at tho Kew
 Thomas (A. P.) preliminary note on the              and tho Greenwich              observatories.
    development     of the tuatara (Spheti-           105.
    odon puneiatum) , 152.                         Water, on        the action of oils on the
 Thompson (C.) and C. R. A. Wright,                   motions    of camphor on the surface of
    on certain ternary alloys. Part 11,25.            (Tomlinson), 25H.
 Thorne (Richard Thorne) elected, 101.                     on tho superficial viscosity of
        admitted, 151.                                (Raylcigh), 127.
 Thumb and finger marks, the patterns                     ro-deterininat ion of the true weight
    in : on their arrangement into natur             of a cubic inch of distilled (Chancy).
    ally distinct classes, the permanence            230.
    of the papillary ridges that make              Weldou (Walter Frank Raphael) elected.
    them, and the resemblance of their               104.
    classes to ordinary genera (Galton),                 admitted. 220.
    455.                                           Whetham (W. C. D.) on the alleged
 Thunderstorms, on barometric oscilla                slipping at the boundary of a liquid
    tions during, and cn the brontometer,            in motion, 225.
    an instrument designed to facilitate           Wilde (II.) on the causes of tho pheno
    their study (Symons), 59.                        mena of terrestrial magnetism, and on
                                                 1
Tidal observations of high and low                   some electro-mechanism for exhibi
    water, on the harmonic analysis of               ting tho secular changes in its hori
    (Darwin), 278.                                   zontal and vertical components, 358.
Tomlinson (C.) on the action of oils on            Willey (A.) on the development of the
   the motions of camphor on the surface             atrial chamber of Amphwjrus, SO.
   of water, 258.                                  Williams (D.) and S. Martin, a further
Transplantation and growth of mam                    note on tho influence of bile and its
    malian ova within a uterine foster-              constituents on pancreatic digestion,
   mother, preliminary        note on      the  '¦   160.
   (Ilcape), 457.                                  Wind    pressure upon an inclined surface,
Trust funds, 481.                                    on (Dines), 233.
Tuatara (Sphenodon punctatum), pre                 Wright (C. R. A.) and C. Thompson.
   liminary note on the development, of              on certain ternary alloys.         Part   II
   the (Thomas), 152.                                25.
                                           ERRATA.
                                             "        "
                   Page 378, line 30, for action            read " reaction."
                     „ 882 „ 17 „ "heated"                    „     "treated."
                                             " with acids " ,,       "
                     ,.   387   „ 10 ,,                                into acids."
                            END   OF   F0KTV-EIGHTH        TOLUitK.
KAUItliON AND 80K3, PRINTERS          IJJ OBUIXABT TO II    KB  iliJESTV,    ST. MASTIs's USB.

                           PROCEEDINGS
                                        or
             THE ROYAL                         SOCIETY
                                   May  1, 1890.
      Sir G. GABRIEL STOKES, Bart., President, in the Chair.
   The Presents received were laid on the table, and thanks ordered
for them.
   In pursuance of the Statutes the names of the Candidates recom
mended     for election into the Society were read from the Chair as
follows  : —
Baker,   Sir Benjamin, M.Tnst.C.E.         Perkin, Professor William Henry,
Bosanqnet,      Robert Holford Mac-          jun., F.C.S.
   dowall, M.A.                            Pickering,     Professor    Spencer
 Burbury, Samuel Hawkesley, M.A.              Umfreville, M.A.
 Gardiner, Walter, M.A.                    Roberts, Isaac,   F.R.A.S.
 Kerr, John, LL.D.                         Sharp, David, M.B.
 Lea,  Arthur Sheridan, D.Sc.              Teall, J. J. Harris, M.A.
MacMahon,          Percy    Alexander,     Thorne, Richard Thorne, M.D.
   Major R.A.                              Weldon, Walter Frank Raphael,
Norman, Rev. Alfred Merle, M.A.               M.A.
   The following Papers were read : —
I. " Magnetic Properties of Alloys of Nickel and Iron."                    By
       J. Hopkinson, D.Sc, F.R.S. Received April 17, 1890.
   Eight different alloys have been examined, distinguished here by the
letters of the alphabet.         All the samples were given to me by
Mr. Riley, of the Steel Company of Scotland, who also furnished me
with the analysis given with the account of the experiments with
each sample.
   The methods of         experiment were the same as were detailed in
my paper on        " Magnetic and other Physical Properties of Iron at a
High Temperature." The dimensions of the samples were also the
same. For this reason it is unnecessary to recapitulate the methods
adopted.       I  confine   myself  to a statement     of  the several results,
dealing with each sample in succession.
    VOL.  XLVIIT.                                                     b

2                                    Dr.   J.  Hopkiuson.                           [May 1,
   A. The following          is the analysis of this sample             : —
        Fe.             Ni.           C.          Mn.          S.           P.
       9796            0-97         0-42          0-58       0-03         0-04  percent.
In this  case     a magnetisation            curve is all that I have obtained free
from doubt      ;  the      sample      was heated and its magnetisation deter
mined at various temperatures for a force of 0'50, but the higher
temperatures must be taken as a shade doubtful, as the secondary
broke down before cooling, and                   I  cannot be sure whether or not the
resistance of the secondary may have changed.
   Table I gives the results at the ordinary temperature for the
material before heating; these are plotted in Curve 1 together with
the curve for wrought iron, for comparison.
                                              Table    I.
                            Magnetising
                                 force.                       Induction.
                                  0-06                              11
                                  0-12                              29
                                  026                               58
                                  0-53                             122
                                  1-07
                                  2-14                            995
                                  4-7
                                  8-8                           9,151
                                168         •   ,             12,876
                                389                           15,651
                               2700                           21,645
                                              CCBVB    1.
              16000
                      "is
                                                                               —
              14.000 -f*
                    -¦
                        <.
                        N
              Ic.UUU                     :
                            ¦B /
                          N  /      -50    ¦
                                    W
               8000 —
                           /        *¦
                          rf
               6.000 -                                 ¦    ¦
            :
               Zo       1
                          *                               M xgriet tarn. 7 Ft rce
                     0                                10            30           40

18H0.]          Magnetic Properties        of Alloys of Nickel       and   Iron.       8
     The ouly noteworthy features are that the coercive force is ob
viously somewhat considerable, and that the maximum induction is
great — greater than that of the more nearly pure iron.
    In Curve 2 are shown the results of induction in terms of the
temperature         for   a force   of 0'5Q.
                                             Curve  2.
                         1 per cent. Nickel.   Magnetising Force, 0' 30.
     B. The      following is the analysis of the sample : —
           Fe.         Ni.      C.       Mn.       S.        P.          Si.
       94799          4-7      0-22     0-23     0014      0037       trace   percent.
     We have here results of induction in terms of temperature for a
magnetising force of 0'12, shown in Curve 3, and for comparison
                                             CravK  3.
                        4'7 per cent. Nickel.   Magnetising Force, 0'12.
                                                             HI
                                                           Eil
 200     "15  —~    r
                                                                                    1
  •50
  inn     s»-
                                  —— -*
                                                               Iftl          II    1
                                                                IKI
 100        ¦       r
       [
              *              —
   50
    o
      500          550          K 10       650         7(
therewith the results of rate of heating and cooling in Curves 4 and
    respectively.          The experiment with rising temperature was made
 by simply observing with a watch the hour at which the temperature
attained successive values whilst the piece was in tho furnace ; the
 cooling experiments were made in exactly the way described in
 '
    Phil. Trans.,' A, 1889, p. 463 ; in the experiment with rising tempera
 ture, however (Curve 4), the ordinates are the actual temperatures, not
                                                                               B 2

4                          Dr.  J.  Hopkinson.                  [May   1,
                                 Cttbye 4.
the logarithms of the excess of temperature above the room, as in
Curve 5. The most remarkable feature in Curve 3 is that the material
has two critical temperatures, one at -which it ceases to be magne-
tisable with increase of temperature, the other, and lower, at which it
again becomes magnetisable as the temperatures fall, and that these
temperatures differ by about 150° C. Between these temperatures,
then, the material can exist in either of two states — a magnetisable
and a non-magnetisable.        Note, further, that the curve for de
creasing temperature    returns    into that for increasing temperature,
and does not attain to the high value reached when the tempera
ture is increasing. From Curve 4 we see that there is absorption
of heat about 750° C., and not before ; and from Curve 5 that heat
is given off at 632° C, and again at a lower temperature.          Com
paring  these  temperatures    with    Curve  3, it is apparent that the

  1890.]     Magnetic Properties     of Alloys of Nickel and Iron.            5
                                      CuBVE 5.
                 T
              ll
               :  -s
                                \
               1
                   1                >
               ^£
               632
               463
                                           ¦
                   12 30       12+5        •0         115      1-30
                                                           Hour
absorption    and liberation of heat occur       at the same temperature as
the loss and return of the capacity for          magnetism.     From Curve 5
also we may infer that the latent heat          liberated in cooling is abont
150 times the heat liberated when the            temperature of the material
falls 1° C.    Concerning the latent heat      absorbed in heating, nothing
can be inferred from Curve 4, excepting           the temperature at which it
is absorbed.
    C. This alloy is very similar to the last; its analysis is —
         Fe.         Ni.     C.       Mn.         S.       P.
       94-39         4-7    0-27      0-57     0-03       0"04  percent.
    In Table   II   are given the results of observations      of induction in
terms of magnetising force at the ordinary temperature of the room ;
and in curve 6 these are plotted together with the curve for wrought
 iron.

6                           Dr.  J. Hopkiuson.               [May  1
                                  Table II.
                     Magnetising
                        force.                Induction.
                         006                       14
                         012                       29
                         0-25                      60
                         052                      127
                         105                      294
                         2-10                     760
                         46                     3,068
                         8-7                    8,786
                       166                     13,641
                       385                    16,702
                      2665                    21,697
    The material appears to be capable of considerably higher mag
 netisation than -wrought iron. In Curve 7 is shown the relation of
 induction and temperature for two forces, 26'5 and 0-5, the results
 being obtained on two different days, to the same scale of abscissa?
 but different scales of ordinates.       These curves show the same
 features as the alloy B, but at a rather lower temperature.
    D. This sample contains 22 per cent, of nickel. It -was not
 thoroughly tested, as the supply of C02 which happened to be avail
 able was insufficient. Its magnetic properties, however, were similar
 to the next sample.

 1890.]       Magnetic Properties      of A lloys of Nickel and front                     7
                                       Cuetb     7.
                                                               m¦
                                                    ¦¦
          1
                                V.
           i                         m
                                     B        tqnetts Hjf  For
                                                                           \
          ¦¦ ¦ m m                                                         _i
         1500
         -
           JO0                               V
          1
        350      400      450      500      550      COO      650
                                                                  -—       wsm
                                                                         700     750   fiOOf
    E. The analysis of this sample* was-
        Fe.        Ni.       C.      Mn.         S.       P.        Si.
       7431       24-5      0-27     0-85      0-01      0-04      0'02      per cent.
As the material was given to             me    it was non-magnetisable           at ordi
nary temperature ; that is to say, the permeability was small, about
1 '4, and the induction was precisely proportional to the magnetising
foi-ce.      The ring on being heated remained non-magnetisable up to
700° C. or 800° C. A block of the material did not recalesce on being
heated to a high temperature and being allowed to cool.
     On being placed in a freezing mixture, the material became mag
netic at a temperature a little below freezing point.
     The material was next cooled to a temperature of about —51° C.
by means of solid carbonic acid. After the temperature had returned
to 13° C. the curve of magnetisation was ascertained as shown in
Curve 8 ; from this it will be seen that the ring of the material which
was previously non-magnetisable              at 13° C. is now           decidedly    mag-
 nctisable at the same temperature.              On heating the         material,   it re
 mained magnetisable until it reached a temperature                      of  580° C.    At
this temperature it became non-magnetisable, and,                       on cooling, re
 mained      non-magnetisable      at the ordinary temperature of the room.
 Curve 9 shows the induction at various temperatures for a magnetis-
    * The results with this sample have already been presented to the Royal Society
 (' Proceedings,' vol. 47, pp. 23 and 188), but are repeated now for completeness.

8                      Dr.  J.  Hopkinson.                           [May 1,
                              Ctove   8.
                        25 per cent. Nickel.
6 000
                                                                   — *—
5 000
3.000
                j
          y
 2 000
  I 000
        A                                     M         (is i TO        m
                                                                   m as
                                                                 t
         20  30    40    50    60   70    60    90    100    HO  I
                              Cubvb   9.
            Magnetising Force, 6'7.   25 per cent. Nickel.
                             Cukve   10.
                       Magnetising Force, Gi.

  1890.]    Magnetic Properties   of Alloys of Nickel and Iron.           9
 ing force 6'7  ; whilst Curve 10 shows the induction in terms of the
 temperature to a different scale for a force of 64.    These curves show
 that, through a range of temperature from somewhat below freezing
to 580° C, this material exists in two states, either being quite stable,
the one being non-magnetisable, the other magnetisable.         It changes
from non-magnetisable to magnetisable if the temperature be reduced
a little below freezing ; the magnetisable state of the material does
not change from magnetisable to non-magnetisable until the tempera
ture is raised to 580° C.
    The  same kind of thing can be seen in a much less degree with
ordinary steel.    Over a small range this can exist in two states ; but
in changing its state from non-magnetisable to magnetisable a con
siderable amount of beat is liberated, which causes rise of tempera
ture in the steel.     It is observed in samples B and C of nickel steel,
as we   have just seen, bnt at a higher temperature.
   As might be expected, the other physical properties of this mate
rial change with its magnetic properties.       Mr. Riley has kindly sup
plied me with wire.
    The wire as sent to me was magnetisable as tested by means of a
magnet in the ordinary way.          On heating it to a dull redness it
became non-magnetisable,      whether it was cooled slowly or exceedingly
rapidly, by plunging it into cold water.      A quantity of the wire was
brought into the non-magnetisable state by heating it and allowing it
to cool.    The electric resistance of a portion of this wire, about 5
metres in length, was ascertained in terms of the temperature;      it was
first of all tried at the ordinary temperature, and then at tempera
tures up to 340° C.       The specific resistances at these temperatures
are indicated in Curve 11 by the numbers 1, 2, 3. The wire was then
cooled by means of solid carbonic acid. The supposed course of change
of resistance is indicated by the dotted line on the curve ; the actual
                                  CritvK 11.

10                            Dr.   J. HopkinBon.                   [May  1,
observations of resistance, however, are indicated by the crosses in
the neighbourhood of the letter A on the curve.           The wire was then
allowed to return to the temperature of the room, and was subse
quently heated, the actual observations being shown by crosses on
the lower     branches of the       curve, the heating was continued to a
temperature of 680° C, and the metal was then allowed to cool, the
actual observations being still shown by crosses. From this curve it
will be seen that in the two states of the metal (magnetisable and
non-magnetisable) the resistances at ordinary temperatures are quite
different.    The specific resistance in the magnetisable condition is
about    0"000052   ;  in tho non-magnetisable       condition it is about
0"000072.     The curve of resistance in terms of the temperature of the
material in the magnetisable condition has a close resemblance to that
of soft iron, excepting that the coefficient of variation is much
smaller, as, indeed, one would expect in the case of an alloy ; at 20° C.
the coefficient is about 0-00132 ; just below 600° C. it is about 0 0040,
and above 600° C. it has fallen to a value less than that which it had
at 20" C. The change in electrical resistance effected by cooling is
almost as remarkable as the chauge in the magnetic properties.
    Samples of the wire were next tested in Professor Kennedy's
laboratory for mechanical strength.           Five samples of the wire were
taken which had been heated and were in the non-magnetisable state,
and five which had been cooled and were in the magnetisable state.
There was a marked difference in the hardness of these two samples ;
the   non-magnetisable       was extremely soft, and the magnetisable
tolerably    hard.    Of  the  five non-magnetisable samples the highest
breaking stress was      50-52 tons per square inch, the lowest 48'75 ;  the
greatest extension was 33 per cent., the lowest 30 per cent.          Of the
magnetisable samples, the highest breaking stress was 88 12 tons         per
square inch, the lowest 85' 76; the highest extension was 8'33,          the
lowest    6'70.    The broken     fragments, both of the wire which had
originally   been magnetisable       and that which had been non-magnetis
able, were now found to be magnetisable.           If this material could be
 produced at a lower cost, these facts would have a very important
 bearing. As a mild steel, the non-magnetisable material is very fine,
 having so high a breaking stress for so great an elongation at
 rupture. Suppose it were used for any purpose for which a mild
 steel is suitable on account of this considerable elongation at rupture,
 if exposed to a sharp frost its properties wonld be completely changed
 — it would become essentially a hard steel, and it would remain a
 hard steel until it had actually been heated to a temperature of
 600' C.
    F. This sample contains 30 per cent, of nickel. Curve 12 shows
 the relation of induction to magnetising force at tho ordinary tem
 perature, and Curve 13 the relation of induction and temperature for

 1890.]     Magnetic Properties   of Alloys of Nickel and Iron.       11
                                  Cuevb    12.
                              30 per cent. Nickel.
a force  of 0'65.    The remarkable feature here is the low temperature
at which     the change between magnetisable and non-magnetisable
occurs, whetber the temperature is rising or falling.      Comparing it
with the last sample, we see that the character of the material with
regard to magnetism is entirely changed.
   G. The analysis of tbis sample is —
        Fe.        Ni.      C.       Mn.           S.  P.
      66-19       33 0     0 28      0-50       0'01  002  percent.

12                         Dr.    J. Hopkinson.                      [May 1,
                                   Cubve    14.
                               33 per cent. Nickel.
                                   Curve    15.
                            Magnetising Force,   1"0.
In Curve   14 is given the  relation of induction and force at the ordi
nary temperature, and in Curves 15 and 16 the relation of induction
and temperature for forces TO and 30'3.             The remarkable feature of
this material is the complete difference from the last but one, and the
low temperature of change.           There is but very little difference
between the temperatures of change when heated and when cooled.
   H. The analysis of this sample, as furnished by Mr. Riley, is —
       Fe.        Ni.       C.        Mn.           8.      P.
      26-50      730      0-18       0-30       0-01      0-01  percent.
In Curve   17 is given the relation of induction and force at the ordi-

 18i'0.]  Magnetic Properties         of Alloys of Nickel and Iron.             13
                                     Ccteve 1G.
                              Magnetising Force, 30      .3.
             10000
                                          x\
                     5
                     .V.
             8.000   <^
                     G
             6 000
             +.000
             2.000
                                                           \
                                                                 »
                   |          50         100         ISO       200   250iT'
                                      Curve    17.
                                 73 per cent. Nickel.
                                       bbbssmm
     :
                            mm               1     1      1  1     1   1
      Is                            ¦                                  mm
       1                               ¦¦¦¦¦¦¦
          fsmm
          mmm                                                                  mm
          mmm                                                                    ¦
            mm              -— L                                            91
nary   temperature.      It  is curious to remark that the induction for
considerable forces is greater than in the steel with 33 per cent, of
nickel, and that it is greater than for a mechanical mixture of iron
and nickel in the proportions of the analysis, however the particles
might be arranged in relation to each other.
  The critical temperature of the material is 600° C. ; it shows no
material difference between the critical temperatures for increasing
aud  diminishing temperatures.

14            Dr.   J. B. Sanderson.     The Time-relations      of   [May 1,
II.   " Photographic Determination of the Time-relations of the
       Changes which take place in Muscle during the Period of
                                            "
                  '
       so-called Latent Stimulation.'          By J. Burdon Sandersov,
       F.R.S.     Received     April 17, 1890.
    It is now forty years since Helmholtz published his fundamental
experiments     on the time-relations     of muscular contractions.        The
purpose of this investigation         was to   ascertain   •" the periods and
stages in which the energy of muscle          rises and sinks after instan
                          "                                           " mecha
taneous stimulation ;       the word energy   being defined as the
                                   "
nical expression of activity ; and one          of the most important con
clusions of the author was that, in the muscles investigated by him,
contraction does not begin until nearly one hundredth of a second
after excitation.       This interval has, by subsequent writers, been
called the period of " latent stimulation."
   Helmholtz subsequently (1854) showed, by experiments of surpass
ing ingenuity, that during this period an electrical change of very
short duration occurs, which culminates at about one two-hundredth
of a second after excitation.      The fact discovered by Helmholtz was
further investigated by Bernstein in 1866, with the aid of the repeat
ing rheotome, and subsequently (1875) by du Bois-Reymond, whose
statement of the actual time-relations of the electrical response to an
instantaneous excitation of the gastrocnemius of the frog is embodied
in a curve which denotes that the muscular surface becomes negative
to the tendon about three thousandths of a second after excitation,
that this effect culminates at seven thousandths of a second, and that
it is immediately followed by a change of opposite sign, which
culminates at about ten thousandths.
   The statement enunciated above may be taken to represent the
                                                        "                    "
present state of knowledge on the subject of the          negative variation
or electrical response of muscle to an instantaneous stimulus ; but, as
regards the mechanical response, a great effort has been made of late
years to obtain a more accurate measurement of the period of latent
stimulation by methods founded on those originally employed by
Helmholtz, with the result that it has been shortened very consider
ably. Two observers, viz., Professor Tigerstedt, of Stockholm, and
more recently Professor Yeo, F.R.S. , have, by improved methods,
obtained records from which they conclude that the duration of the
period is 0-005".        Finally, Professor Regecsky, of Pesth, has, by
avoiding certain sources of error, obtained curves which lead him to
conclude that the mechanical response may begin " at the moment of
                     "
direct excitation — in other words, that the poriod of latent stimula
tion docs not exist.

                                         " latent Stimulation."
1890.]       Changes in Muscle during                                    15
    I have now to submit to you incontrovertible evidence which the
photographic method affords, not only that the estimate of the dura
tion of the period of latent stimulation accepted as true ever since
Helmholtz's early investigations is very much too long ; but that the
final conclusion arrived at by Dr. Teo a year ago, that it has a real
duration of five thousandths of a second, is erroneous.        I am further
in a position to demonstrate what are the time-relations of the
electrical change to the muscular contraction with which it is
associated.
    The method of observation consists in projecting the movement to
be recorded, whether of the muscle or that of any instrument which
serves as an index of change, on a vertical slit on which the vibrations
of a tuning-fork and the motion of a signal are also shadowed. Im
mediately behind the slit is a photographic plate, which is carried by
an equilibrated pendulum. The approximately uniform rate of motion
of the sensitive surface which receives the light-written record is
about one meter per second, but is determined in each experiment by
 reference to the rate of vibration of a tuning-fork.
     The plan adopted for obtaining a photographic record of the earliest
trace of change of form, was based on the by no means new considera
tion that the effect of an instantaneous stimulus is in the first instance
limited to the part of the structure to which it is applied, and, con
 sequently, may fail to produce any measurable change of form of the
 whole muscle ; the parts which first contract doing so at the expense
 of the as yet relaxed parts which are connected with them. This
 consideration is applicable not only to the case in which the muscle
 is excited directly, but also to that in which it is excited through its
nerve ; for in the latter case, each fibre is first stimulated at the spot
at which it receives its nerve.
     In the experiments on direct excitation, the muscles used were the
gastrocnemius and sartorius of the frog.      In the former the movement
of contraction was communicated to a light index, which was sup
ported by a fine spring.     One end of the index rested on the muscle,
while the other occupied the front focus of a projection apparatus, the
 slit being in the other focus.      When the sartorius was used the
 surface of the muscle was itself bronght for a moment into the focus,
 at the seat of excitation.   The unavoidable exposure of the structure
to the electric light, which this method involved, lasted scarcely more
than a second.       In successful experiments, the interval between
excitation and the beginning of the contraction was 2£ thousandths
 (=        of a second.
     In n photographic record of a succession of events no time-error is
possible, provided that the rate of movement of the recording surface
remains unaltered, for, if I may so express myself, an event cannot
 be seen photographically before it happens.        It is therefore certain

 16          Dr.  J. B. Sanderson.     The Time-relations   of   [May   1,
 that,  in direct excitation, contraction begins not more than one
 four-hundredth of a second after an instantaneous stimulus.
    For measurement of the delay in indirect excitation, the gastro
 cnemius (with the index) only was used, the exciting electrodes
 being applied either at 12 or at 37 mm. from the muscle.     The results
 were   not so  constant.   Corrected  for  loss of time by propagation
 along the nerve, the intervals between excitation and beginning con
 traction varied from 0-0025" to 0-0035".
    In the experiments for determining the time after excitation at
 which the electrical response begins and culminates, the capillary
 electrometer was used, as in my experiments on the heart and on the
 leaf of Bioncea, as a signal, but with much improved apparatus for
 recording.
    In the gastrocnemius of the frog, the electrical response to an
 instantaneous stimulus is indicated by a sudden movement of the
 mercurial column of so short a duration, that to most persons it is
 invisible. Its photographic expression is that of a spike projecting
from the dark border of the part of the plate which is unprotected by
the mercurial column.      The electrical interpretation of this spike is
that between the contacts two electrical changes of opposite sign and
not more than one two-hundredth of a second in duration have imme
diately followed each other, or, more explicity, that the spot excited
became, for about 0-0005", first negative, then for a similar period
positive, to the other contact (see last paragraph).
    Before using the electrometer as a signal it was necessary to ascer
tain that, under the conditions of the experiment, there was no delay
in the circuit, either due to sluggishness of the instrument or to any
other cause.      It was proved photographically that there is no
measurable delay.
    In the muscle (the leading off contacts being on the Achilles
tendon and muscular surface respectively, and the nerve excited at a
distance of 12 mm.) the electrical response begins at 0'004", and
culminates at about 0'012" after excitation.        Deducting the delay
due to transmission along the nerve, we have, as the time between
excitation and response, 0 0035 '. It is thus seen that the electrical
response, instead of preceding the mechanical, is contemporary with
it. All those theories therefore of the excitatory process in muscle
which rest on the supposed fact that electrical disturbance is a con
comitant of the period of latent stimulation, fall to the ground.    The
electrical change may, so far as concerns the time at which it occurs
in muscle, be immediately connected with that sudden change of the
elastic properties of muscle of which the contraction is the sign.
    The fact that there is a measurable interval of time between exci
tation and electrical response, renders it improbable that Regecsky
is right in supposing that the contraction begins at the moment of

                                                 " Latent Stimulation."
 1890.  J      Changes in Muscle during                                             17
   Diagram showing the time-relations of the electrical response (relative negativity
succeeded by relative positivity of the longitudinal surface of the gastrocnemius,
excited indirectly), and of the mechanical response (beginning of contraction of the
same muscle excited directly) .
   The horizontal distance of the closer vertical lines from each other corresponds to
      of a second.   Tho photographic curves were copied twice their natural size by
" projecting " them on a sheet of paper.
stimulation. It can scarcely          be imagined       that the electrical change
is later than the mechanical.
   The statement above as to the interpretation of the photographic
record of the electrical response is founded on the following experi
mental facts. When a current of very short duration is led through
the electrometer, of such strength as to produce a movement of the
mercurial column comparable with those observed in the experiments
above described, the photographic record shows first that the mercurial
column during the passage of the current executes a rapid movement
   vol. XLTTJI.                                                               C

                                          " Latent Stimulation."
18          Changes in Muscle during                                  [May 1,
in the   same direction, and that at the cessation of the current the
menisctis does not return, or returns very slowly, describing on the
photographic plate a curve, of which the characters will be discnssed
in  a paper to be   shortly submitted to the Society by Mr. Burch. It is
sufficient to say that the reason why the meniscus returns so slowly is
that the potential of the charge which it has received is proportional
to the displacement ; in the case of a current of very short duration it
is inconsiderable as compared with the difference of potential of the
terminals at the moment that the current is broken.
   When, instead of a single current in one direction (one two-hun
dredth second), two currents of the same duration follow each other in
opposite direction, the record resembles in its essential characters that
of the excitatory electrical response in muscle.          It is seen that the
mercurial column, which       is displaced during  the  brief duration of the
first current, returns abruptly to the previous position during the
second.      These phenomena     I leave also to be discussed subsequently,
noting only that the difference of potential at the terminals of the
electrometer which is required to bring back the column to its origiual
position is the same as that by which it was displaced, and that such
an effect as has been described in muscle could not be produced by the
becoming negative of the middle of each muscular fibre, unless that
change were followed either by another in the opposite direction at
the seat of excitation, or by a similar change at the other electrode.
   Considering that the known velocity of propagation of the excita
tory process in the mascle of the frog is about      3 meters, and    that the
distance between the contacts is about 1"5 cm., we should expect that
if the two currents through the electrometer, the existence of which
the photographic record so distinctly indicates, were due to propaga
tion, they should follow each other at an interval of one two-hun
dredth of a second. The actual difference of time between the two
electrical effects lies fairly within this estimate.
   Postscript, April 28th. — Since sending this communication,          I have
become aware of a research published            very recently by Professor
Bernstein (" Ueberden miteiner Muskelzuckung verbundenen Schall
und das Verhaltniss desselben zur negativen Schwankung." — ' Unter-
such. aus dem Physiol. Institut der Universitiit Halle,' 1890), which
relates    closely to the subject of this paper.         The facts observed,
though of a different order from those recorded above, afford a
remarkable confirmation of them.            They are as follows : — When a
muscle (gastrocnemius of a rabbit) is excited by a single induction
current applied      to its nerves, its tendon and muscular surfaces
respectively being connected with a telephone, the electrical response
can be heard telephonically.         This Bernstein calls the electrical thud
(electrischer Stoss).    A  thud of a similar character may be heard by

1890.]       The Sympathetic     Nervous System in Mammals.            19
auscultation.      If telephone and stethoscope are applied to the same
ear, one sound only is heard.      Exner has shown that any two sounds
which are as much as            of a second apart are audible as distinct
sounds.     Bernstein therefore concludes that, inasmuch as contraction
begins nearly          second after excitation, and the electrical change
culminates at           second, the mechanical thud must, as well as the
electrical, be molecular, and concludes that the two sounds are coin
cident.     In the second of these conclusions, Professor Bernstein
 appears  to  be justified, but not in the first. It having been shown by
 the photographic records that the two responses, the electrical and
the mechanical, are nearly coincident, it is no longer needful to seek
 an explanation of the fact that the electrical and mechanical sounds
are indistinguishable.
 III. " The Development of the Sympathetic Nervous System in
       Mammals."        By A. M. PATERSON, M.D. Communicated by
       A. Milnes Marshall, F.R.S. Received April 18, 1890.
                                  (Abstract.)
    The following investigations were undertaken with the object of
determining the origin of the Mammalian sympathetic system, and of
 clearing np thereby certain points in its morphology.
    Two opposite views exist at present among embryologists regarding
 its development.      In both views the segmental formation of the sym
 pathetic cord is upheld.      According to the older view (Remak, <fcc),
 it is mesodermal, and is formed in situ. According to more recent
 views, it is ectodermal.     Balfour and Onodi, who have maintained the
 latter view, uiffer, however, as to the fundamental origin of the
 sympathetic system, — Balfour regarding each sympathetic ganglion
 as an offshoot from the spinal nerve, while Onodi considers it a direct
 proliferation from the spinal ganglion.
    For the present research mammalian embryos were exclusively em
 ployed — rat, mouse, rabbit, and human embryos.             The stage in
 development     was first considered in which the sympathetic system
 was plainly visible, and from this point the earlier and later stages in
 the process were traced. It was only possible to determine approxi
 mately the ages of the embryos employed, as the time of impregnation
 varies in different instances, and two embryos from the same uterus
 often differ in size and extent of development.
    The first event to occur is the formation of the main sympathetic
 cord.    In very young embryos {e.g., rabbit, 7 days, axial length
  5 mm.), in which the spinal nerves are completely formed and the
  spinal ganglia clear and distinct, there is no trace of the sympathetic
                                                                 c 2

20        Dr. A. M. Paterson.       The Development   of   tlie   [May 1,
ganglia or the connecting branches with the spinal nerves. The cord
is first seen in transverse and sagittal sections of mouse and rat
embryos of about 8 days.          It arises on either side as a solid,
uniform, unsegmented rod of fusiform cells, imbedded in the meso-
blast surrounding the aorta, and lies in the interval between the latter-
and the adjacent veins.     Slightly thicker anteriorly than posteriorly,
it ends abruptly in front at the level of the first vertebral segment ;
behind it becomes indistinct posteriorly to the suprarenal body, to
which it sends a considerable cellular bundle, and, tapering off", dis
appears at the level of the hind limbs. This cellular column is formed
by the differentiation of the mesoblastic cells in situ ; it is not con
nected with the spinal nerves, and it is unsegmented.
   The next step consists in the junction of the spinal nerves on either
side with these columns of cells.        This is effected by the gradual
growth of    the  inferior primary division of the nerve and its final
division at the junction of the body wall (somato-pleure)            and
splanchnic    area  (splanchno-pleure)     into  somatic  and  splanchnic
branches (rat, mouse, 8-9 days).       The former passes on to be distri
buted in the body wall.      The latter can be followed in succeeding
stages in a ventral and mesial direction, until at last it meets and
joins the cellular sympathetic cord (mouse, 11 days, rat, 12 days).
   The origin of this splanchnic branch is from both roots of the
spinal nerve, of which the ventral root contributes the greater number
of fibres. At its peripheral end it terminates in one of two ways.
At the anterior part of the thorax the fibres seem to end entirely in
the sympathetic cord ; that   is,   they have not been traced beyond it.
In the posterior thoracic and in the lumbar regions the splanchnic
branch, on reaching the sympathetic cord, divides into two parts, of
which one joins the cord, the other passes over it. In both cases the
fibres which join the cord aro directly connected with the component
cells.
   In certain regions no such connexions can be made out. Behind
the kidney and the bifurcation of the aorta (i.e.. behind the loins) the
splanchnic branches cease.    In front of the fore limbs (i.e., in the
neck)  the  splanchnic branches do not join the sympathetic system.
In comparatively advanced embryos, distinct nerves, morphologically
similar to the splanchnics, course inwards round the vertebral artery
to the tissues surrounding the growing vertebra, but at the same
time occupying a position dorsal to the sympathetic cord, and alto
gether unconnected with it.
  These splanchnic branches correspond     to the white rami communi-
cantes.
   The formation of the ganglia on the main sympathetic cord occurs
subsequently, and   issubordinate to the connexions with       of the
                                                                  it
splanchnic branches of the spinal nerves.  Up to the time of the  for

1890.]              Sympathetic       Nervous System in Mammals.                         21
mation   of cartilaginous vertebral centra, there is no constriction of
the main cord (mouse, 17 — 18 days).    Gangliation begins at and after
this date, and is due, in the first place, and principally, to the junc
tion of the splanchnic branches ; this canses the accession of a large
number of nerve-fibres at the point of entrance, and the consequent
persistence of the component cells (which are joined by these nerves),
as ganglion   cells.  Gangliation is caused, secondly, and to a less
extent, by the anatomical relations of the sympathetic cord to the
bony segments, vessels, &c, which are developed near    and which, by   it,
their growth, cause indentation or constriction of the cord at certain
points.
     This view      is   supported    by the evidence obtained from the dissec
tion of human embryos of different ages (3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th months),
where the cord has the form of    band or strip, constricted irregularly
                                          a
at considerable intervals, rather than of  regularly nodulated chain
                                                    a                                       ;
and by the evidence derived from the normal adult structure, where
    "               "
the   segmentation    of the sympathetic cord    apparent rather than
                                                                is
real.
   The cervical portion of the embryonic sympathetic cord       at first         is
undifferentiated from the main column.    Growing with the growth of
the neck,    separates at the origin of the vertebral artery, into two
               it
uneqnal   parts. The smaller part forms        fibro-cellular cord, which
                                                        a
accompanies    that artery, and forms the vertebral plexus. The other,
or main, portion accompanies the carotid vessels.       Growing rapidly,
it becomes constricted off from the main sympathetic cord by the
formation of a gradually elongating fibro-cellular commissure, and
gives rise to the
                  "
                    superior cervical ganglion." This lies alongside the
internal carotid artery, and gives off anteriorly a fibro-cellular bundle,
which accompanies and        finally lost upon that vessel, as the carotid
                                     is
plexus.   When the middle cervical ganglion           present,   ismay be      it
looked upon as representing          mass of the original cells of the
                                          a
sympathetic cord, which have been included in the growth of the
commissure connecting the main cord to the superior ganglion.       These
parts may be regarded as belonging to the collateral distribution of
the sympathetic    system, because (1) they are outgrowths from the
main cord, and (2) they receive no splanchnic branches directly from
thespinal nerves.
  The caudal termination of the sympathetic system     likewise an        is
outgrowth from the main cord.   In the youngest embryos in which
it   found (rat,
      is          days), the cord
                          8          lost at the level of the hind
                                               is
limbs   at a later period of development (rat, 12 days)
           ;                                                    reaches        it
further, to the bifurcation of the aorta  while in still older embryos
                                                    ;
it can be traced alongside the middle sacral artery for    considerable   a
distance.   It   not joined by splanchnic branches, and
                    is                                             only        it   is
in an advanced             stage of development         (rat,   22    days)    that trans

22          The Sympathetic Nervous System in Mammals.           [May  lr
verse cellular communications take place on the dorsal aspect of the
middle sacral artery between the cords of opposite sides to produce
the ganglion impar and the loop of connexion between the caudal
ganglia.
    The peripheral branches from the sympathetic cord arise as cellular
buds or outgrowths which are first seen about the time when the
splanchnic branches of the spinal nerves join the cord (mouse, rat,
11 — 12 days; human embryo 1st month).              They accompany the
parts of the splanchnic branches which do not join the sympathetic
cord into the splanchnic area ; and, especially in the hinder thoracic
region, form considerable masses traceable along the main vessels,
which in older embryos give rise to parts of the splanchnic nerves,
as well as the medullary portions of the suprarenal bodies, as previous
observers have described.
    The gray rami communicantes      may (doubtfully) be said to belong
to the category of peripheral branches from the sympathetic cord.
They appear to arise from the cord as cellular outgrowths which
pursue    a centripetal course along the splanchnic branches of the
spinal nerves towards their roots ; but in regions where these are
absent, or are unconnected with the sympathetic cord,         I have not
been able to satisfy myself about their formation.
    The principal conclusions derived from these investigations are
that the sympathetic system in Mammals is mesoblastic, is formed in
situ out of the cellular tissue surrounding the embryonic aorta, and
is at first entirely independent of the cerebro-spinal nervous system :
it is primarily uniform and unsegmented, in this respect resembling
the organs in the splanchnic area — the vascular and alimentary sys
tems — with which it is so closely related, functionally as well as
structurally. It becomes secondarily connected with certain spinal
nerves by the growth from the latter of the white rami communi
cantes, and  in consequence becomes gangliated in an irregular manner.
From the main cord cellular outgrowths arise which form peripheral,
non-medullated nerves, plexuses, and ganglia, as well as the medullary
portions of the suprarenal bodies.
    Morphologically, the Mammalian sympathetic cord resembles the
 structures with which it is in structural and functional relation, in
 being mesoblastic, and in its development primarily unsegmented.       It
 is a rod, fibro-cellnlar in structure, out of which, on the one hand,
 are produced certain ganglia and nerves, and which, on the other
 hand, becomes connected with certain cerebro-spinal fibres — the
 splanchnic branches of the spinal nerves. The mechanism thus pro
 duced may be regarded as providing for the guidance of these fibres.
 (e.g., vasomotor nerves)   to their destinations, and as regulating their
 proper distribution to the vascular and alimentary systems.
    In conclusion,   I wish to express my indebtedness to Professor

 1890.]                            Presents.                                   23
Milnes Marshal], of Manchester, for his advice and criticism, and for
many valuable suggestions made after reading the memoir of which
this is a summary.
IV. "A Note       on an Experimental Investigation into the Patho
      logy of Cancer." By Charles A. Ballanoe and Samuel
      G. Shattock. Communicated by Sir James Paget, Bart.,
      F.K.S. Received April 15, 1890.
                            [Publication  deferred.]
                          Presents, May 1, 1890.
Transactions.
   Cambridge, (Mass.) : — Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard
        College. Bulletin. Vol. XIX. No. 1. 8vo. Cambridge 1890.
                                                                   The Museum.
              —
   Cracow : Academic      des  Sciences.   Bnlletin   International.    Comptes
        Rend us des Seances de ]'Ann6e 1890.           Xo. 3. 8vo. Cracovie.
                                                                 The Academy.
   London:    — Entomological Society.       Transactions. 1890.         Part 1.
        8vo.    London.                                             The Society.
      General Medical Council. The Medical Register. 1890.                   8vo.
        London ; The Dentists' Register. 1890. 8vo. London ; List
        of Medical Students Registered during 1889. 8vo. London
        1890.                                                       The Council.
   Munich   : — K.B.  Akademie     der  Wissenschaf    ten.   Sitzungsberichte.
        Phil.-Hist. Classe.     1890.    Heft   1.   8vo.   Miinchen.
                                                                 The Academy.
   Palermo : — Circolo Matematico.       Annuario.      1890.    8vo.   Palermo.
                                                                    The Circolo,
             —
   Sydney : Australian Museum.            Records.      Vol. I. No. 1. 8vc.
        Sydney 1890.                                               The Museum.
           —
   Tokio : Sei8mological      Society of Japan.           Transactions.      Vol.
        XIV. 8vo. Yokohama [1890].                                  The Society.
   Trieste : — Societa Adriatica di Scienze Naturali.                 Bollettino.
        Vol. XII. 8vo. Trieste 1890.                                The Society.
   Vienna : — K. Akademie der Wissenschaften.                 Anzeiger. 1890.
               —
        Nr. 0 8. 8vo. Wien.                                       The Academy.
      K.K. Geologische Reichsanstalt. Verhandlnngen. 1890. Nr.
         6-8. 8vo. Wien.                                          The Institute.
    Zurich: — Naturforschende       Gesellschaft.      Neujahrsblatt.       1888.
         4to. Ziirich 1887.                                         The Society.

24                                 Presents.                       [May 1,
Bigelow (F. H.)        The Solar Corona, discussed by Spherical Har
     monics.     4to.    Washington 1889.
                                             The Smithsonian Institution.
Buckton (G. B.), F.R.S.           Monograph of the British Cicadas or
     Tettigidaj.    Part 2. 8vo. London 1889.                 The Author.
Distant (W. L.)       A  Monograph of Oriental Cicadidae. Part 2. 4to.
     London 1889.                The Trustees, Indian Museum, Calcutta.
Hooker (Sir   J.  D.),  F.R.S.    The Flora of British India. Part 16.
    8vo. London 1890.                                    The India Office.
Mensbrugghe       (G.   van  der)    Sur  la Condensation   de la Vapeur
    d'Eau dans les Espaces Capillaires.        8vo. Bruzelles 1890.
                                                              The Author.
Pyne (J. K.) Catalogue        of  Musical  Instruments,  principally illus
    trative of the History of the Pianoforte, the property of Henry
    Boddington. Obi. 4to. Manchester 1888.                      Mr. Pyne.
Rosenberger (F.)      Die Geschicbte der Physik. 8vo. Braunschweig
     1882-90.                                                 The Author.
Todd (D. P.) Photographs of the Corona taken during the Total
    Eclipse of the Sun, January 1, 1889. 4to.          Washington 1889.
                                             The Smithsonian Institution.
Walker (Rev. F. A.) The Botany and Entomology of Iceland. 8vo.
    [London 1890.]                                 The Victoria Institute.

  1890.]                  On certain Ternary     Alloys.                      25
                                 May   8, 1890.
       Sir G. GABRIEL STOKES, Bart., President, in the Chair.
    The Presents received were laid on the table, and thanks ordered
 for them.
    The following Papers were read : —
I. "On certain Ternary Alloys. Part II." By C. R. Alder
       Wright, D.Sc, F.R.S., Lecturer on Chemistry and Physics,
       and C. Thompson, F.C.S., F.I.C., Demonstrator of Chemistry,
       in St. Mary's Hospital Medical School. Received April 3,
       1890.
    In Part I, it  has been shown that when the three metals lead, zinc,
and tin are fused together and well intermixed, and the mixture
allowed to stand molten for some hours at           a  nearly constant tempe
rature, a single homogeneous alloy results           if the proportion of tin
present exceeds a certain limiting amount (about three-eighths of the
entire mass) ; but with smaller proportions of tin the mass divides
itself into two different ternary alloys of unequal density : the
heavier contains chiefly lead, together with some of the tin, and as
much zinc as the lead can dissolve in presence of the particular
proportion of tin associated with it; whilst the lighter mainly
consists of zinc, with the rest of the tin, and as much lead as the
zinc can dissolve in presence of that tin.
   "We have found that analogous results are obtained with various
other ternary mixtures of metals, A, B, C, such that whilst A and B
are not miscible together in all proportions (like lead and zinc), C is
miscible in all proportions with either A or B separately.              Of such
mixtures, the following are examples : —
           Heavier metal, A.      Lighter metal, B.     Third metal, C.
             Lead.                 Zinc.                  Tin.
             Lead.                 Zinc.                  Silver.
             Lead.                 Zinc.                  Cadmium.
             Lead.                 Zinc.                  Antimony.
              Bismuth.             Zinc.                  Tin.
             Bismuth.              Zinc.                  Silver.
              Lead.                Alumininm.             Tin.
              Lead.                Aluminium.             Silver.
              Bismuth.             Aluminium.             Tin.
              Bismuth.             Aluminium.             Silver.

 26            Dr. Alder  Wright and Mr.     C. Thompson.         [May 8,
    We have made a large number of experiments with various
mixtures of this kind. So far as our results are completed, they lead
to the following general conclusions : —
    1. In all cases, the mixture of the three metals A, B, C, when
allowed to stand molten for a sufficient length of time at a tolerably
equable temperature, divides itself into two different ternary alloys
of unequal density, if thG proportion of C present in the entire mass
falls below a certain limiting amount ; but, if the quantity of C
present is above this limit, no such separation takes place, only one
homogeneous alloy resulting.
    2. Under ordinary circumstances,    the different alloys thus formed
are respectively a saturated solution of A     in a mixture of B and C
 (lighter alloy), and one of B in a mixture of A and C (heavier alloy);
the solubilities being such that, the greater the proportion of C
present, the more of A (or B) is dissolved.      Certain metals, however,
appear to be capable of forming true chemical compounds in atomic
proportion, in which case the quantity of A (or B) dissolved does not
always vary directly with the amount of C present.
    3. The quantity of B dissolved by a given weight of A (or of A
dissolved by a given weight of B) in presence of a given weight of
 C varies considerably with the nature of C. Moreover, although in
certain cases (e.g., the lead-zinc-tin alloys examined in Part I) a
considerable variation in temperature makes hardly any measurable
 difference in the solubility, this is very far from being the general
rule ; the ordinary effect of increment in temperature is to increase
the solubility of A in BC, and of B in AC, in some cases to a very
considerable   extent.
    4. The third metal C divides itself between the two alloys in a
fashion variable not only with the nature of A, B, and C, and with
the temperature, but also with the relative proportions subsisting
between A and B in the entire mass, and with the proportions of C
contained therein.     If curves be drawn, as described in Part J, with
the percentages of C in one alloy as abscisssB and the differences in
percentage between the two alloys as ordinates, two classes of curves
may be distinguished. In one, the percentage in the lighter alloy is
greater than that in the heavier ; calling the difference + , the curve
rises from the origin above the base line. In the other, the percentage
in the lighter alloy is less than that in the heavier one ; so that the
difference is now — , and the curve falls from the origin below the base
line.   With curves of the first kind, it generally happens that the
ordinate value increases       gradually to a maximum          and   then
diminishes ; with some metals (e.g., silver-lead-zinc) the diminution
is only just perceptible; with others (e.g., silver-bismuth-zinc) it is
more marked ; whilst with some (e.g., tin-lead-zinc) it is carried so
far that at length the ordinate becomes 0, and subsequently — in

 1890.]                   On certain Ternary  Alloys.                     27
sign, i.e., the curve first rises above the base line to a maximum, and
then sinks again, and crosses the base line, falling below it.
Similarly, with curves of the second kind, it sometimes happens that
the ordinate value reaches a negative maximum, and then lessens
again, so that the cnrve again approaches the base line; as yet,
however, we have not met with a case where the curve actually
crosses the line giving a + ordinate value.
        Mixtures of Lead, Zinc, and Tin at Higher Temperatures.
    The experiments described in Part       I indicated that little if any
difference is produced in the composition of the two alloys into
which a given mass of these three metals separates by varying the
temperature at which the fused mass is maintained between 565"
and 689°, or between about 650° and 750° ; sensibly the same
solubility curves for zinc in lead-tin, and for lead in zinc-tin, resulting
in all cases. We find, however, that if a higher temperature be
employed,      750 — 850°   and upwards, a measurable increment           in
solubility is produced.        At this more elevated temperature, the
volatility of zinc is considerably enhanced, so that the ratio between
the lead and zinc present in the compound ingot finally obtained
differs more from that in the mass of metals originally weighed up
than was the case in the experiments described in Part          I ; in those
experiments, the average loss by oxidation and volatilisation per
 100 parts of original metals jointly was nearly 4 parts, of which
scarcely anything was due to loss of tin, about one-third to loss of
 lead, and some two-thirds to loss of zinc.           In the experiments
 described    below,  100  parts  of original  metals  lost on an average
about 10 or 12 parts altogether, almost the entire increment in the
 loss being due to enhanced volatilisation of zinc, this larger amount
 being due not only to the higher temperature, but also to the longer
 time of fusion (some twenty-four hours instead of eight). To reduce
 this loss by volatilisation to a minimum, the molten metals, when
 poured into the red-hot narrow clay test-tubes, were covered with
 layers of fused cyanide of potassium some 12 or 15 millimetres thick.
    The melting arrangements employed throughout in the experi
 ments described in this paper were substantially those detailed in
 Part   I :  viz., the weighed metals were fused with cyanide of
 potassium in a clean crucible, well stirred together for some time,
  and poured into a red-hot clay test-tube, which was then kept hot
  for some hours by immersion in a bath of molten lead, fused in an
 iron cylindrical vessel surrounded by a clay jacket, several large
 Bansen flames playing into the interspace being the source of heat.
 The temperature was ascertained from time to time by means of the
 platinnm specific heat pyrometer, as described in Part I. It was

28            Dr. Alder Wright and Mr. C. Thompson.              [May 8,
found more convenient to surround the clay test-tubes with, thin
wrought iron coverings made of wider tubes closed at the end ; by
so doing, the chance of spoiling an experiment by the infiltration of
lead from the bath through minute cracks in the clay was avoided ;
moreover, by simply removing from the iron tubes the inner clay
test-tubes by means of tongs, a new set of test-tubes containing fused
mixtures could be readily introduced          into the lead-bath without
extinguishing the heating flames ; whereas, when the clay test-tubes
were plunged directly into the molten lead, the layer of fritted
litharge that formed on the outer surface of the lead-bath sometimes
rendered it difficult to remove the clay tubes without agitation.
   Somewhat smaller ingots than those previously used were mostly
prepared, usually weighing 50 — 60 grams, instead of 80 and upwards ;
the compound ingots ultimately formed were generally about 7 or
8 centimetres long, and 10 — 12 millimetres      diameter.
   The following solubility values for pure lead in pure zinc, and
vice versa (no tin being present), were obtained in a number of
different observations.
                  Percentage of Zinc in Heavier      Alloy.
               At  565—750°  (Part I).      At 750—850°.
                        114                      1-23
                        122                      1-27
                        1-30                     1-28
                        1-30                     PS4
                                                 1-35
                                                 1-36
             Mean       T24            Mean      1-30
                  Percentage of Lead in Lighter Alloy.
               At  565—750°  (Part I).      At 750—850°.
                        1-08                     1-40
                        110                      1-57
                        117                      1-64
                        1-22                     1-67
             Mean       114            Mean      1-57
   It  hence results that the solubility of zinc in lead is greater at a
temperature near to an average of 800° than at one near to an
average of 650° by an amount only jnst perceptible, and barely
outside the limits of experimental error ; whilst the solubility of lead
in zinc is increased nearly in the proportion of 3 to 2 by the same

 1890.]                     On certain Ternary       Alloys.                          29
 temperature increment.          The values described below show that when
 tin is also present the increment in solubility with higher tempera
ture is in each case well marked.
    The following mean values were obtained from twelve compound
ingots, prepared      by fusion for twenty-four hours at a temperature
averaging near         to 800° of mixtures         containing originally equal
 weights of zinc and lead with varying proportions of tin : —
                                                                    Excess of tin
           Heavier alloy.                    Lighter alloy.
                                                                    percentage      in
                                                                     lighter alloy
                                                                      over that in
     Tin.     Lead.        Zinc.      Tin.       Lead.       Zinc.     in  heavier.
     0        98 -70        1-30      0           1-57      98 -43          0
     7 01     89 -87        3 12      9-28        5-39      85-33           2- 27
   12 77      82-98         4-25     16-36        8-00      75-64           3- 59
    19 -29    73 17         7-54     21-56       10 -04     68'40           2-27
   22 -84     65 -80      J 1-36     23 94       11- 39     64-67           I -10
   27-12      54-98       17 90      26-62       12- 13     61-25         -0-50
   29-47      50 07       20 -46     28 -37      12 95      58-68         -1-10
   31-66      45-74       22-60
                                        Fig.  1.
   Fig. 1 represents the curve illustrating the tin distribution derived
from these figures, the numbers in the first column being plotted as
abscissas and those in the last as ordinates (No. 1) ; the corresponding
mean curve      deduced from the observations              at lower temperatures

30              Dr. Alder Wright and Mr. 0. Thompson.                      [May 8,
(averaging near 650°), described in Part I, being represented by
No. 2, in each case equal quantities of lead and zinc and varying
proportions of tin being employed for the mixtures originally fused.
The effect of the higher temperature is apparently to give a curve
somewhat underlying that obtained at the lower temperature, and
crossing the base line sooner ; but the difference is not extremely great,
and is probably at least partly due to the circumstance that the
greater volatilisation of zinc at the higher temperature causes the
proportion of lead relatively to zinc in the entire mass to rise higher:
as shown in Part I, the tin distribution curve obtained with two parts
of lead to one of zinc in the original mixtures underlies that obtained
with equal proportions of the two metals, and crosses the base line
sooner.
   When the percentages of tin and zinc in the heavier alloys are
plotted as absciss© and ordinates respectively, a curve is obtained
sensibly overlying that previously obtained at about 650° ; and
similarly with the curve obtained by plotting the percentages of tin
and lead in the lighter alloys as abscissae and ordinates respectively.
   The following tables exhibit the solubility values deduced from the
mean curves thus graphically obtained, the corresponding values for
650° being annexed for the sake of comparison : —
                                                           *
                        Solubility of Zinc in Lead-Tin.
                     Temperature near 650°.          Temperature near 800°.
   Per rent, of
       tin.
                   Per  cent, of                  Per cent, of
                                   Difference.                       Difference.
                       zinc.                         zinc.
         0             1-24                           1-30
         2             1-44           0-20            1-80               0-50
         4             1-65           0  21           2 30               0-50
         6             1-89            0 24           2 80               0-50
         8             2  15          0  26           3 30               050
        10             2 45           0  30           3-80               050
        12             2 85           0-40            4-40               0 60
        14             3-4            0 55            6-10               0 70
        16             4-1            0 7             5-9                0 80
        18             5 0            0-9             6-9                1-00
        20             61              11             8-1                1-2
        22             7-5             1-4            9-6                1-5
        24             9-25           1-75           11-6                2  0
        26           11-4             2-15           14-1                2-5
        28           13-9             2 5            17-1                3 0
        30           16 -7             2 8           20-4                3 3   •'
        32           19-8             3 1            24-0                3-6
        34           23 2             3 4
       36            27-0              3 8              ••                 ¦•
  * By inadvertence, some numerical inaccuracies exist in the table of
                                                                       solubility of

1890.]                      On certain     Ternary Alloys.                               31
                          Solubility of Lead in Zinc-Tin.
                        Temperature near 650°.              Temperature noar 800°.
   Per cent, of
        tin.
                     Per  cent, of                       Per cent, of
                                        Difference.                          Difference.
                         lead.                               lead.
          0              1-14                                1-57
          2              1-47              0   33            2-35                0-78
          4              1-80              0   33            3-15                0 80
          6              2-13              0   33            3-95                0'80
          8              2  46             0   33            4-75                0-80
         10              2  80             0-34              5-55                0-80
         12              3  14             0-34              6-35                0-80
         14              3  50             0   36            715                 080
         16              3  9              0   40            7-95                0-80
         18              4-5               0   6             8-75                0-80
                                                          ¦
         20              5 3               0   8             9-55                0 80
         22              6 3                1-0             10-35                0-80
         24              7-5                1-2             11 -20               0 85
         26              89                 14              12 -05               0-85
         28             10 6                1 7             12-90                0 85
         30             12-75               2 15
         32             15-5                2-75
                                          Fig.   2.
                                        ¦
                                              ¦
                                                       ¦
                                                    ¦ ¦¦
                                                             ¦ VM
                                                                    I   m WMM
                                                                                    =— —
                                              i
                                        ¦           ¦¦¦                            ——  1
                                                                  /
                                                                  r
                                                                    /
                                                            $T
                                                        7%
                               ¦<
        H8
              Perce ntucft         of  Tin.
 zinc in lead-tin  given in Part    I for  the abscissa  values    (tin percentages)  26 and
 upwards ; the   corrected figures  are given above.

  32            Dr. Alder   Wright and Mr. (J. Thompson.          [May  8,
                                    Fio. 3.
    Figs. 2 and 3 represent these values respectively, the curves
  marked 2 being those obtained at the lower temperatures (near 650°),
  and those marked 1 being the corresponding higher temperature
 mean curves (near 800°) ; the dotted lines being those connecting
 the points actually observed at near 800°.
                     Mixtures of Lead, Zinc, and Silver.
    Owing to the lesser degree of fusibility exhibited by some of these
 mixtures, it was found necessary to employ throughout a temperature
 ranging between 750° and 850°, and generally pretty close to 800°.
 It is well known that on adding zinc to melted argentiferous lead
 the zinc rises to the top, carrying most of the silver present with it
 along with a little lead ; whence, evidently, the curve representing
 the distribution of silver between the lighter and heavier alloys
 formed resembles that obtained with lead, zinc, and tin alloyB when
 the proportion of tin present is but small, i.e., the curve at first
ascends above the base line ; but no information appears to be extant
giving any clue as to whether this kind of distribution would also be
observed with mixtures containing large proportions of silver, or
whether such mixtures would behave like lead-zinc-tin mixtures
containing large proportions of tin, i.e., furnishing a curve descending
again to, and finally dropping below, the base line.
    The analysis of the lead-zinc-silver alloys formed was made as
follows : — a weighed quantity, usually some 5 or 6 grams, was dissolved
in nitric acid and the solution diluted with so much hot water that
on adding enough dilute hydrochloric acid to precipitate all the

 1890.]                       On certain Ternary Alloys.                                   33
silver present no lead chloride separated.                     The turbid liqnid was
 kept hot in the water-bath for an hour or two, until the silver
 chloride had subsided, and was then filtered hot, the silver chloride
being boiled up two or three times with water to wash out any
lead    chloride that might possibly have separated.                    The filtrate was
evaporated with pure sulphuric acid in excess, and the lead snlphate
formed separated and determined in the usual way.                          As with the
lead-zinc-tin alloys described in Part I, it was found necessary to
precipitate the zinc contained in the filtrate from the lead sulphate
as sulphide, and to redissolve              this (after filtration) in hydrochloric
acid and precipitate whilst boiling as carbonate by sodium carbonate,
finally weighing as ZnO ; if the precipitation as sulphide were
omitted, sensibly too high values were obtained from the presence of
lime, presumably derived from the glass and porcelain vessels used.
The ZnO, after weighing, was dissolved in hydrochloric acid and
snpersaturated with ammonia, and the trifling precipitate of alumina
and ferric oxide (derived from the crucibles and clay test-tubes)
estimated      and subtracted.          The figures given below are in all cases
calculated upon the sum of the silver, lead, and zinc thus found
           Series   I.— Time      of Fusion, 8 hours.        Temp., 750—850°.
  Percentage           Heavier alloy.                                         Excess of
                                                    Lighter alloy.
   of silver                                                              silver percent
 in mixture                                                                age in lighter
    before                                                                   alloy over
   fusion.      Silver.     Lead.     Zinc.    Silver.   Lead.    Zinc.   that in heavier.
      0            0        98 -70    1-30       0        1-57    98 43           0
      3            0-02     98 25     1-73       5-75     1-95    92 -30          5-73
      6            0 12     98-36     1-52      12 32     5-12    82-56         12 -20
      9            0  34    97-16     2-50      17-23     9 00    73-77         16 -89
     10            0  18    97-67     215       18-96     8-62    72 -42        18-78
     12            0  19    97-39     2-42     20-95    11-81     67-24         20-76
     11            0  37    97-81     1-82     24 10      9 06    66 84         23-73
     16            0  60    96-55     2-85     28 -85     7 34    63 81         28-25
     18            0-85     97-23     1-92     33 -77     3-04   63 19          32 -92
     20            119      95 -46    3-35     34-86      2-83   62-31          33-67
     ?2 -5         1-38     96-40     2-22     38 33      2-78   58 93          36 95
     25            1-61     96   00   2-39     39-95      2-86   57 19          38 -34
     275           1 82     95   73   2-45     41 -90     3-27   54 83          40-08
     31            2 52     95   10   2-38     46 43     3 06    49-91          43-91
     36            3-01     95   59   1-40     53-74     370     42 -56         50-73
    ¦38            3-58     95-23     1-19     54-15     3 53    42 32          50-57
     41            530      93 -47    1-23     56-67     4-32    39 01          51  37
    44             8  31    90 12     1-57     60 13     7-06    32-81          51-82
     475          11 -45    86 70     1-85     62 -94    9-54    27-52          51-49
     52 -5        14  06    8410      1-84     65-48    10-50    24 02          51-42
     57 -5        17  14    80-43     2-43     66 19    12 85    20-96          49 05
     62-5         1945      77 62     2-93     66-24    14-78    18-98          4K-79
     65            *•         ••               67 -39   16 66    15 95           ••
   VOl.-  XLVIII.                                                                B

34                Dr. Alder AVright and Mr. C. Thompson.                         [Hay   8,
         Series  II.— Time of Fusion,       24 hours.      Temp., 750°— 850°.
  Percentage                                                                Excess of
                       Heavier alloy.              Lighter alloy.
   of silver                                                             silver percent
  in mixture                                                             age in lighter
     before                                                                 alloy over
    fusion.      Silver.    Lead.     Zinc.  Silver.   Lead.    Zino.   that in heavier.
       0          0         98 70     1-30      0       1-57     98-43           0
       6          0 02      98-64     1-34      9-34    2-51     88 15           9-32
       7-6        0 10      98-38     1-52    15-46     4-63     79 91         15-36
      10          0 32       97-61    2-07    22 07     6-96    70-97          21 -75
      12 5        0-25       97 -08   2-67    22-28     7-56     70 16          22 03
      15          0 88       96-23    2-89    27 95     617      65-88         27 07
      20          112        96-98    1-90    39-49     8-46     67-05          38-37
      25          1-46      96 58     1-96    41-82     3-90     54-28         40-36
      27 5        1-60       97 14    1-26    48 11     3-46     48-43          46-51
      30          2-26       9U-46    1-28    48 93     3-82     47-25         46-67
      35          5-35       93 -27   1-38    51-86     4 47     43-67          46-51
      40          7-78       90  76   1-46    53 -98    4-78     41-24         46-20
      45          9 36      88   62   2-02    61 07     7-23     31-70          61-71
      60         10 75       86  95   2-30    61 -93   10 -28    27 79          61 18
      60            ••        ••       ••     68-89    18-28     12-83           ••
(after correction) as 100. In the case of the lighter alloys, -where
zinc was the main constituent, as a rule the silver and lead only
were determined, and the zinc taken by difference ; but with the
heavier alloys the zinc was invariably directly determined.
    Series    I is derived from the examination of thirty-eight compound
ingots, and Series        II  from seventeen, several of the analyses quoted
being the mean compositions derived from two mixtures nearly alike.
The average loss by volatilisation and oxidation was about 4 grams
out of 50 — 60 = about 8 per cent., in Series I, and 6 or 7 grams
 = about 13 per cent., in Series II, the zinc being the metal chiefly
affected.
     On plotting these figures as curves, it is noticeable, firstly, that the
distribution of silver between the two alloys formed is such as
 throughout to yield a curve overlying the base line, and exhibiting a
 rise to a maximum, and subsequent slight fall. Thus curves 1 and 2,
 fig. 4, represent the numbers in Series I and                    II respectively, the
 percentages of silver in the lighter alloys being here taken as
 abscissae, and the figures in the last column as ordinates.
     Next, the curves obtained by plotting the percentages of silver
 and lead in the lighter alloys as abscissas and ordinates respectively
are most remarkable (curves 1 and 2, fig. 5). At first the two curves
 do not coincide, but they present the same general feature of rising
 to a first maximum, and then falling again to a point but little above
the starting level, after which the two do not differ from one another

1890.] On certain Ternary Alloys. 35
36                   Dr. Alder Wright and Mr. C. Thompson.                  [May 8,
by amounts outside the limits of variation aseribable to unavoidable
differences of average temperature and fluctuations of temperature in
the several experiments, both rising slowly until a point is reached
when a very marked change takes place in the rate of ascent.
    It is especially noticeable that the position of the first maximum is
in each case close to that when the ratio between silver and zinc in
the alloy is indicated by the formula AgZn-—
                                   Silver.    Zinc.   Lead.   Ratio of zinc to silver.
    Series   I                     20 95     G7  24   11-81        1 to 0 -313
    Series   II                    22 28     70 16     7-56        1  „ 0 -317
    Calculated for AgZns                                                 0-332
            »          AgZn4                                             0-277
    Further, the points where the rate of ascent suddenly becomes
 much more rapid are            in neither case far from that indicated by the
 formula Ag4Zn5          —
                                   Silver.    Zinc.   Lead.   Ratio of line to silver.
                                   53 -74     42-56    3 70            to 1-26
     Series   I, between.
                          ¦•¦{     66 67      39 01    4-32                 ¦45
                                            Mean                            •325
     Series   II,  about            53 98     41-24 |  4-78                  31
     Calculated for Ag4Zn4                                                   33
               „       AnZn . .                                             -66
               „       AgjZn,                                               •11
     As regards these points, it is remarkable that alloys where upwards
  of nine-tenths of the whole consists of silver and zinc in the propor
  tion Ag4Zn5 exhibit a distinct coppery red hne when a recently filed
  or polished surface is exposed to the air for a short time. As the
  proportion of Ag4Zn5 present diminishes owing to the presence of
  excess of silver, or of zinc, or of either with additional lead, the red
  colour becomes less marked, the tint being only a pale yellow, or even
  entirely white, when the alloys contain less silver and more zinc, or
  more silver and less zinc, than about the limits —
                  Silver              42 per cent            62 per cent.
                 Lead                  3    „                10      „
                 Zinc                 55    „                28
                                   100                      100

1890.]                 On certain Ternary Alloys.                           37
corresponding with a percentage of Ag4Zn- of abont 73 in the first
case and 65 in the second.
   It is further remarkable that mixtures of bismuth, zinc, and silver,
on standing     fused for some eight hours, separate into different
ternary alloys, the lighter of which yield curves exhibiting exactly
the same peculiarities as those above mentioned, viz., rise to maximum
near AgZn5, fall again to a minimum, and then a slower rise again to
Ag^Zn-, marked by a red colour.         These alloys will be discussed in a
subsequent    paper.
   Thirdly, tho curves obtained by plotting the percentages of silver
in the heavier alloys as abscissa? and those of zinc as ordinates
(Nos. 1 and 2, fig. 6) are in each case such as to indicate that, as long
                                     Fio. 6.
as  the mixture of metals used contains less than about 41 per cent, of
silver in the first case and 28 in the second, the heavier alloy
that separates invariably contains more zinc than that formed either
when no silver at all is present, or when these limiting proportions
are reached.     At these limiting proportions the percentage of zinc
present is slightly lower than that found in binary zinc alloy, as also
is the proportion of zinc calculated per unit of lead, thus —
                           Silver.     Zinc.    Lead.   Eatio of lead to zinc.
                            0           1-30    98-70        1 to 0 0132
                            1-60        1-26   97-14         1  „ 0 0130
                            3-58        1-19    95-23        1  „ 0 0125
    The lowering is   so small     that it might readily be attributed to
 experimental errors, were it not that a precisely similar and much
 more strongly marked result is obtained with alloys of silver, zinc,
 and bismuth, as will be shown in a future paper.
    After these limiting proportions are passed the amount of zinc

 38            Dr. Alder Wright and Mr. C. Thompson.            [May 8,
 present increases with the silver present, giving sensibly the same
 curve in each series.
    The above results obviously lead to the conclusion that silver and
 zinc form at least two definite compounds, viz., AgZn5 and Ag4Zn5 :
 the first of these can dissolve lead more freely than can either
 pnre zinc or the second ; so that when the silver and zinc are
 contained in the lighter alloy in exactly the proportion AgZn5,
 the lead dissolved is a maximum.       Moreover, it results conversely
that lead can dissolve AgZn6 more freely then either pure zinc or
 Ag4Zn6, bo that, when circumstances favour the production of the
 first compound, the zinc dissolved in the heavier alloy is notably
increased.    It would seem that the compound Ag4Zn5 is so much
less soluble than AgZn6 that lead saturated therewith contains
actually less zinc than when saturated with pure zinc ; for the
experiments with bismuth-silver-zinc alloys show that the zinc con
tained in the heavier alloys (calculated per nnit of bismuth)
gradually diminishes to a minimnm as the silver present increases,
and then regularly increases again, the position of this minimum
being sensibly that where the silver and zinc present are in the
proportion Ag4Zn6. This point will be discussed in a future paper.
    When more silver is present relatively to zinc than corresponds
 with Ag4Zn5, then this compound is dissolved by lead, and conversely
can itself dissolve lead, the more freely the more surplus silver is pre
sent ; so that a more or less rapid rise in each solubility curve is
observable when the silver present exceeds that requisite to form
 Ag4Zn5 with the zinc present.
    The difference between the lighter alloy curves obtained in Series I
and   II leads to the remarkable couclusion that, when the compound
AgZn, (containing dissolved lead) is kept fused for some hours, it
tends to break up (presumably into free zinc and Ag4Zn6), and thereby
to throw out of solution more or less of the dissolved lead ; so that
after 24 hours' fusion less lead is present in the lighter alloy than
after only eight hours' fusion.    Obviously, if it were practicable to
effect this decomposition absolutely completely, the lighter alloy
formed would be simply a mixture of Ag4Zn6 and more or less
surplus zinc, saturated with lead; and hence the curve traced out
with silver as abscissa and lead as ordinate should rise regularly
from the origin up to the point where Ag4Zn6 without surplus zinc is
present.
    Owing to the volatility of zinc, we were unable to carry out any
experiments with a view to tracing out such a regular curve, by
maintaining the alloys in a fused state for lengthened periods of
time (several days) ; but we succeeded in effecting the same object
by the simple device of eliminating the lead that separated (along
with some silver and zinc) on keeping the solution of lead in AgZn6

 1890.]                   On certain   Ternary Alloys.                     39
fused    for some time, so as to remove it from the sphere of action,
and    thus   facilitate the separation in the same kind of way that
removing the products of decomposition pari passu with their forma
tion facilitates the decomposition         by heat or the dissociation of
ordinary chemical compounds.
    After various trials, we found that the simplest way of effecting
this was to prepare a series of mixtures of eqnal weights of lead and
zinc and varying quantities of silver, and keep them fused for
about eight hours, as in Series     I ; the compound ingots thus obtained
were then cut in two, and the lighter portions fused separately
without stirring for another period of eight hours, so as to be out
of contact with the heavier portions formed during the first fusion.
Similarly, the heavier portions were also fused separately.              The
result of this treatment was that each lighter portion underwent
a further      separation into a small quantity of heavy alloy and a
much larger quantity of a lighter one ; and, conversely,                each
heavier portion similarly separated into a small quantity of lighter
alloy, which floated, and a much larger amount of heavier alloy.           On
repeating the operation, by cutting off the small quantity of heavy
alloy (or lighter) that had thus separated, and fusing again for
another eight hours, no further separation to any material extent
occurred in the generality of cases,          indicating that the limit of
 decomposition by fusion had been reached.            Thus, for example, the
 following figures were obtained in two experiments with the lighter
 portions of the ingots first formed : —
                       Composition.                  Silver.  Lead.   Zinc.
                                                      14-65   8-30    77 -05
                                                      16 -93  2 64    80-43
                                                      17 60    2-89   79 51
                                                      17 27    2-76   79-97
                                                      24-10    906    66 -84
                                                      27- 37   2-66   69 -97
                                                      28- 85   2-71   68-44
                                                      28 11    2-68   69-21
     Similar results were obtained in various other cases ; moreover, we
  found that, if instead of weighing up equal quantities of zinc and
  lead and a given proportion of silver, and fusing for eight hours,
  and then separating the two crude alloys formed, and again fusing
   the lighter alloy, a mixture of the three metals was made in about

 40             Dr. Alder Wright and Mr. C. Thompson.                 [May 8,
 the proportions      representing those due to any given point on the
 earlier portion of curve No. 1, fig. 5, and kept in a state of fusion
 for eight hours or more, just the same effect was produced ; i.e., a
 small quantity of heavy alloy subsided, leaving a lighter alloy, the
 composition of which was not altered materially by cutting off the
 separated heavy alloy and fusing again for eight hours more.
    Uniting together all the observations thus made, we obtained the
following series of figures, representing the limiting compositions of
the normal lighter alloys formed, i.e., the compositions below which
 no further reduction in lead percentage conld be obtained by keeping
in a fused state for several hours longer : —
           Series  III. — Limiting     Composition of Lighter Alloys.
                        Silver.         Lead.          Zinc.
                        11-51            2-37         86-12
                        17-27            2-76         79-97
                        24-49             2-65        72-86
                        2811             2-68         69-21
                        37-54            3-14         59-32
                        46-23            3-56         50-21
                        52-78            3-60         43-62
                        61-12            6-40         32-48
                        64-58           10-00         25-42
                        66-25           10-84         22-91
   On plotting these figures it is obvious that they give a curve
(No. 3, fig. 5, dotted line) sensibly identical as regards its latter
part with the corresponding portions of the curves obtained from
 Series  I  and   II, the    differences in no case being greater than the
amounts that may reasonably be ascribed to unavoidable differences
in tho average temperature and in the small temperature fluctuations
in the different experiments.            But the first part of the curve is
wholly different, the rise to a maximum at AgZn5 and subsequent
fall being wholly eliminated, and a regular ascent being visible
instead, precisely as should be the case were the compound AgZns
wholly decomposed in each case, so that no excess of lead could be
taken into solution over and above that due to the normal solubility
in the particular mixtnre of silver and zinc (or of Ag4Zn6 and surplus
zinc or silver) present.           In similar fashion, we found that if the
bottom portions of the compound ingots obtained after eight hours'
fusion, and containing unduly high percentages of zinc, were cut off,
and fused again separately for another period of eight hours, a small
quantity of lighter alloy rose to the top, whilst the heavier alloy
formed after the second fusion gave, on analysis, percentages of zinc
and silver yielding a perfectly regular curve, instead of the abnormal

 1890.]                    On certain Ternary       Alloys.                  41
 results obtained     in Series   I  and   II  with mixtures of metals con
 taining less   than 28 — 41 per      cent,   of silver, and yielding heavier
alloys   after the  first  fusion,  containing    less than 5 or 6 per cent, of
 silver.
           Series IV. — Limiting     Compositions      of Heavier Alloys.
                       Silver.           Lead.             Zinc.
                         0-38           98 33              1-29
                         075            9798               1-27
                         1-52           97-30              118
                         4-03           94-72              1-25
                         8-44           9000              1-56
                       11-09            87-20              1-71
                        14-82           83-25              1-93
    The dotted curve No. 3, fig. G, represents these values, which
obviously imply that the method of treatment adopted had, as with
the lighter alloys, sufficed to decompose completely              the compound
AgZn5 originally present, and hence to prevent any larger propor
tion   of zinc being present than that due to the normal solubility in
lead of Ag+Zn5 mixed with free zinc, in the case of the alloys earliest
in the series, or to the solubility in lead containing surplus silver of
the compound Ag4Zn5, in those occurring later in the series.
    The following tables are derived from all the foregoing results,
excepting the earlier alloys of Series          I  and II, where excess of lead
was present in the lighter alloy, or of zinc in the heavier one, owing
to the presence of nndecomposed AgZnB ; they represent the mean
composition of the zinc-lead-silver alloys, producible under such con
ditions that no AgZn6 is present to increase the amount of zinc
contained in the heavier, and of lead in the lighter, alloys respec
tively   : —

42              Dr. Alder Wright and Mr. C. Thompson.                         [May 8,
     8olubility of zinc in lead-silver.        Solubility of lead in zinc-silver.
                              Difference                                Difference
  Percentage    Percentage                 Percentage     Percentage
   of silver.
                                   for                                       for
                  of zinc.                  of silver.     of lead.
                              1  per cent.                              1 per cent.
         0          1-30                        0            1-57
         1          1-25       -0    05        10            1-97           0 040
         2          1-20       -0    05        20            2 37           0 040
         3          1-20          0            30            2-77           0-040
         4          1-22        + 0 02         35            3 00           0 046
         5          1 -24       + 0 02         40            3-25           0  050
         6          1-26        + 0-02         45            3  55          0  06
         7          1-28       + 0-02          50            3-90           0  07
         8          1-32          0-04         51            8-97          0   07
         9          1-38          0 0t>        52            4 04          0   07
       10           1-46          0-08         53            412           0   08
       11           1-66          0 10         54            4 20          0   08
       12           1-68          012          55            4-35           0-15
       13           1-81          0 13         56            4 60           0-25
       14           1-95          0-14         67            5 00          0-40
       15           2-10          015          58            5 6           0-5
       16           2-26          0 16         59            6 1           0-6
       17           2 43          0-17         60            6-8           0-7
       18           2-61          0-18         61            7 55           0-75
       19           2-80          0 19         62            8 35           0-8
       20           3 00          0-20         63            9-2            0- 85
                                               64           10 1            0 9
                                               65           XI -1           10
                                               66           12-5            1- 4
                                               67           14-5            2 0
                                               68           17 5            3 0
   On comparing together the relative effects on the solubility of lead
in zinc, and zinc in lead, produced by the presence of tin and silver
respectively, it is at once obvious that if 100 parts of zinc can take
np m parts of lead in presence of x parts of a third metal (tin or
silver), or if 100 of lead can take up n parts of zinc in presence of
a of the third metal, then m and n are invariably much greater when
the third metal is tin than when silver, even if the solubility in pre
sence of tin be reckoned at only 650° C, or thereabouts, instead of
800°.
   Thus the following tables are calculated from the mean solubility
carves previously described, giving the correlated values of x, in, and
n for the three cases — tin at about 650°, tin at about 800°, and
silver at about 800° : —

      ou;z     paajoseip         *<\ 001                JO
                                                     pB9J III                           JO   X              jo   psyj         p9A[ossip          ^1   ooi             ouu p          a;                     jo x
                                           8}J«d                         90a988jd                sjittd                                                     si-iml                         eaueB&id
                                            uij ao) *(J3A[TS                                                                                                Ut) SO) '(.13ATI8
                    ?« V0S9                  «!X        1* •o008                «^iig             ¦o008                 ail         V   -.099                 ™X              \>008               aaAng          1* •o008
              •u           ma                     •ii                                   K                                                  ¦ma                    -ut                                    •m          ¦ma
 0       9Z-I                                88-1                               Z8-T                •
                                                                                                    •               T         91-                            1      09-          *   '                    09-          *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       '
 s      I     06-       0      39-                09-        8Z-I               Z8-T                                    90-2                    06-           4-8               1-8                       98-        SZ-0
 01                        S90
                                            Z 1   00-        T                                                                96-
                                                                                                                                          00    06-           8-9
         9G-Z                                                      Of-          Oi-t                  86-                                                                       1-8                       01-            92-
 SI      9-8               301               99-9            99-T               9Z-Z                 99-                      98-          06-0               6-4               1-8                       98-            92-
                                                                               Z                                    Sg1                  I
 OZ      1-9               9-1               98-4                  08-               06-              99-                     06-               90-          01 0-              1-8                         09          92-
                                                                                                                                                                  I-
                                                                                                 00000
                                                             TZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                      TTZZZZ
 98      8-4               1-3               04-0                  98-          Oi-8                  08-               t9                 9-1               81                 I-Z                         98               9Z
                                                                                    •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    000 00
 08      6-6             4-8               9-Zl              6-8                    *                                   *-8                0-8               Z-fl               T8                    01-8              92-
 98     8-81             f-S               Z-9I              9-8                                                    01 6-                  9-8               98-91              SIZ                   98-8           SZ-0
 Of     41   I-          8-8               8-OZ              I.*                                                    81    8-               6-Z               8T 09-             91-8                   09-8         0        93
 St     IZ    8-         l-f               6-fZ              9-t                                                    O-ZI                   Z-S               OS   i-            Z-Z                    98-8          9Z-0
 09     9-98             tt                6Z 8-             6-*                                                    9-03                   9-8               o-ez               8-8               f       01-        93-0
 99     Z-08             9-f               98 0-             8-9                    •
                                                                                    •                               9-W                    6-8                                                        ott            08-0
 09    6f8               4-t               t-Of              t-9                    •               w
                                                                                                    •               sz    I-               8-t                *   '                                   Oi-*           08-0
                                                                                    ¦
 99    4-68              8-f               6-9f              9-9                                                                            •
                                                                                                                                            •                                                     9         90      0   98-
 Oi     ft    9-         6*                19 9-             99                                                                             •
                                                                                                                                            •                                                         Ot-S           980
 9i    9-6*              0-3               Z-49              4-9                                    <
                                                                                                    *                                                                                                 08-9               Of
 08    4-fS              IS                   •
                                              •               •
                                                              •                                                                                                                                       OZ-9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0o   ot
 98    8-63              IS                   ¦                                  •
                                                                                 •                                                                            •
                                                                                                                                                              *                                       09-9           Of-O
                                              •               • •                                   • •
 06    99     0          Z-9                                  • •                                   ¦ ¦
                                                                                                                                                                                 • ¦ ¦ •
                                                                                                                                                                                                      00-4          ot-o
                                                                                    • •
 96    Oi     8-         8-9                  ¦                                     *
                                                                                    ¦                                   *
                                                                                                                        •                                     •
                                                                                                                                                              *                                       Ot-4          Of-0
                                              ¦
                                                                                                                                                                                 ¦ • ¦ ¦
OOI    94    !)*         8-9                                                                                                                                                                          03-i          Ot-0

                        On certain Ternary Alloys.         [May  8,
                                   Fio. 7.
    60
                                           ¦                A
    50
                                               ¦ ¦v
           \                               ¦¦ ¦ ¦ rA
g           \
ft            \
                                           ¦¦        a
    rA
                                           //
                                           /
                            /9           y
    20
     10
                4
                2
                    ===  —3
      0
         o         io   z0      so             0    60  7 9     80
                           Values
                                   Fig. 8.
    50
                                                   m¦¦
                                                 ¦ m¦¦
                              •
    c*
    3 J
                  ¦      ¦           ¦ ¦ P. Wi ¦
  a               ¦       ¦          ¦
                  ¦¦      ¦¦                   ¦¦      ¦
                             ¦       1             ¦
                          ¦                               ¦
     10
                                             ¦
      ft
                             w
                                               ¦—  _
          F
                                           •
      0
         0          10  so      30      40    50    60   70     eo
                         lues    i   #

1890.]                    Experiments on Vapour-density.                             45
     Figs.   7   and      these values of x, n, and m, respectively,
                       8 represent
the curves marked 1 being those obtained with tin at 650° ; those
marked 2 with tin at 800; and those marked 3 with silver at 800°;
the value        of x being and those of m and n ordinates.
                              abscissas,
  We have much pleasure in acknowledging the assistance afforded
ns by Mr. T. M. Wyatt in carrying out a considerable portion of tho
analytical results above detailed.
II- "Experiments on Vapour-density                  .>'    By E. P. Perman, B.Sc,
       Clothworkers' Exhibitioner at Uuiversity College, London.
       Communicated   by Professor Ramsay, F.R.S.       Received
       April      17, 1890.
                           The Vapour-density       of    Bromine.
  The main purpose of my work on this subject was to discover                        if
bromine had any tendency to dissociate at low pressures, i.e., down to
about 15 mm. of mercury, and at moderate temperatures.
  The subject was suggested by Professor Ramsay, to whom           am          I
aTeatly   indebted for constant advice and assistance in carrying out
the  work. The method adopted for determining the vapour-densities
was   amodification of the Dumas method, from which                differed in
                                                                          it
three essential points:     —  (1) The globe was not immersed in a bath,
but had a vapour-jacket.         (2) The weight of the vapour in the globe
was not found by direct weighing, but by running in an absorbent
liquid, and estimating           volumetrically.
                                it                  (3) A series of vapour-
density determinations at different pressures was made with the same
quantity of vapour by lowering the pressure, absorbing the vapour
drawn off and estimating its quantity.
   As to previous work on this subject, Jahn has shown                   Wien, ('
Akad. Sitzber.,' vol. 85,        Abth., 1882, p. 778) that the vapour-density
                                  2.
becomes normal at about 230° Meier and Ziiblin
                                           ;                  Deutsch. Chem.
                                                                     ('
Ges. Berichte,' vol. 13, 1880, p. 405) and Crafts           Comptes Rendus,'
                                                                 ('
vol. 90, 1880, p. 183) have shown that partial dissociation takes place at
very high temperatures           and Professor J. J. Thomson states that
                                  ;
"
   vapour-density determinations        showed that bromine vapour         dis  is
sociated      it is heated for a long time at a low pressure, even though
             if
the temperature      is not very high "      Roy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 42, 1887,
                                               ('
p.  345).    His  chief  results  are  —   :

40                            Mr. E. P. Perman.                         [May 8,
    Pressure.     Temperature.        Density.               Remarks.
       mm.
       543              89             81 -7        In bath 24 hours.
       235            109              77 -0        Sparked.
       230            100              66 5         In bath 4 hours.
       165              90             77-0         Only short time in bath.
       390            m                70 0         In bath 7 hours.
   These results were so abnormal           that it was deemed necessary to
make fresh experiments.
   Description of Apparatus. — The apparatus used consisted of a glass
globe, A (fig. 1), of about half a litre capacity, blown inside of a larger
     Fig. 1 — Apparatus  used tor determining the Vapour-density of Bromine.
                                     (Section.)
globe, B.     The liquid which produced the vapour-jacket was boiled
in a small globe, C, connected with the outside globe B, and con
densed in the tube D, round which, when necessary, a condenser was
fixed.   Further to the right came an absorption-tube, F, with a small
bulb- tube,   G, containing a few drops of the same liquid as was
introduced into the absorption-tube, viz., potash solution during the
boiling-out process, and afterwards a strong solution of potassium

 1890.]               Experiments on Vapour-density.                  47
iodide; then came an air-reservoir, M, and a pressure-gauge, O,
arranged as shown in the diagram.          There were stopcocks at E, L,
and N ; rubber joints at     H,  K, and S ; and a screw-clip at R on the
tube P, leading to a water-pump.
    Method of Procedure. — The capacity of the globe A was accurately
determined by weighing the apparatus empty, and then full of water ;
it was filled from a wash-bottle, which was also weighed as a check
on the other result.
    Pure bromine was specially prepared by boiling commercial
bromine with potassium bromide for a day, distilling it through a
tube containing red-hot manganese dioxide, and redistilling with
phosphoric anhydride ; after a small portion had distilled over, the
boiling point was constant at 59°-09 (reduced to 760 mm.). Asbestos
plugs were found very useful in working with bromine ; by their use
a good joint can be secured if liquid bromine is not allowed to come
into contact with the asbestos. The thermometer in the distilling-
flask was secured by a plug of asbestos, and its bnlb was surrounded
 with asbestos to prevent superheating.
    To commence an experiment, the globe was rinsed with ether, and
dried by repeated exhaustion and admission of air ; some bromine
 was run in without admitting air, the tube above B was fused on to
 the absorption-tube, F, by means of a portable blowpipe, the liquid
 in C was boiled, the stopcock E cautiously turned till the pres
 sure   within the globe was equal to the atmospheric pressure, and
 then opened from time to time till the bromine ceased to blow out.
 All the bromine was absorbed in F, which at this stage contained
 potash solution. The stopcock E and the tube above and below
 it were gently heated by means of a JBunsen's burner. The absorp
 tion-tube was then connected with the reservoir M, and the air
 was partially exhausted from the whole apparatus ; to complete the
 exhaustion as far as possible, the globe and the absorption-tube
 were directly connected with the pump.         The stopcock E was then
 turned off, the tube above it was cracked and removed, more bromine
  was admitted, the tube fused together again, and the bromine driven
 out as before till the pressure in A was equal to the - atmospheric
  pressure.    The globe was then full of bromine vapour at the
  atmospheric    pressure, and at the temperature       of the jacketing
  vapour, and was ready for a vapour-density determination, or for a
  series of determinations.     The absorption-tube was rinsed out, and
  partly filled with a strong solution of potassium iodide ; it was then
  clamped in its place, and connected with the globe A, and with the
  reservoir M. The water-pump was then set to work till the reservoir
  was exhausted sufficiently — the degree of exhaustion depending upon
  the number of vapour-density determinations which were to be made
  in the series. The pump was then cut off by the screw-clip B-, and

48                             Mr. E. P. Perman.                           [May 8,
 he stopcock      E   turned   very cautiously, letting out the bromine
vapour little by little ; when it ceased to come over, the globe and
its contents were left for two or three minutes in order to regain the
heat lost by the adiabatic expansion ; it was necessary to repeat this
process till the bubble in the bulb-tube G remained undisturbed on
quickly opening and closing the stopcock E. The pressure recorded
by the gauge was then carefully read, the stopcock L was closed, the
absorption-tube removed, and its contents washed into a stoppered
bottle.     The whole process was repeated at successively lower
pressures till the lowest desired was reached ; a good water-pump will
reduce the pressure to the vapour-pressure of water at the temperature
of the water passing through the pump.
   The residual bromine in the globe was estimated by running in
potassium iodide solution, and titrating with a standard solution of
sodium thiosulphate.        The successive quantities of bromine collected
in the absorption-tube were also estimated in the same way.                   The
thiosulphate solution was standardised with the specially prepared
bromine, and also with pure iodine ; the results agreed within 0-2 per
cent., and the mean value was used.
   By adding together the residual quantity of bromine and the
quantities removed, the weight of bromine in the globe at each
pressure was found.         The capacity of the globe being accurately
known, and also the temperature of the jacket from the tables of
Professors Ramsay and Young (' Chem. Soc. Journ.,' vol. 47, 1885,
p. 640), the data requisite for the determination                of a series of
vapour-densities     at different   pressures   were  available.
   Results.— After some practice            in conducting the experiment,
satisfactory   results were obtained     ;  they are tabulated below     : —
Series   I. — Temperature,    77°'8  (Alcohol)    ; Capacity of Globe, 446-3 c.c.
              Weight of bromine.           Pressure.               V.-d.
                     grms.                    mm.
      1.            2 410                    744-9                 79-2
      2.            1 856                    575-9                 78 -9
      3.            1 383                    431-2                 78-5
      4.            1-146                    355 -9                78 8
      5.            0 6732                   208-4                 79 1
      6.            0 3388                   103 6                 801
      7.            01144                     33 -9                82-6
   Some bromine escaped absorption, causing the first vapour-densities
to be too low.

1890.]                Experiments on Vapour-density.                        49
                       Series II. — Temperature,    78°'4.
             Weight of bromine.          Pressure.              V.-d.
                    gnns.                   mm.
      1.           2 640                  764-3                 81 0
      2.           1-552                  452-0                 80-5
      3.           0-4848                 141-4                 80-4
      4.           0-05933                  15 -45              901
   The only noticeable point in this series is the highness of the last
vapour-density at the lowest pressure.
  A single experiment was then made in order to try the effect of
continued heating on bromine vapour at a low pressure.             After three
hours' heating at 78°-0 and 15-35 mm. pressure, the vapour-density
came out abnormally high, viz., 92-6.         Professor J. J. Thomson found
vapour-densities 66'5 and 70 at much higher pressures and somewhat
higher temperatures than these.
    Series III. — Temperature,     1550-5 (Bromobenzene)      ; Capacity of
                               Globe, 447-1 c.c.
            Weight of bromine.          Pressure.               V.-d.
                    grms.                  mm.
      1.           2 114                  749-0                 80-8
      2.           1-192                  423 -9                80-3
      3.           0 3309                 117 -4                80-7
      4.           0-09833                  34-9                80-4
   Here there is still no sign of dissociation, and what seems some
what remarkable, even at low pressures the vapour-density is above
the  normal density.
   The pure bromine being then exhausted, a fresh sample was pre
pared from the residues and from some commercial bromine treated
with potash ; the whole was evaporated to dryness, ignited, distilled
with sulphuric acid and potassium bichromate, and dried by shaking
with sulphuric acid, allowing to stand, and re-distilling ; the greater
portion came over at 58°-9 (corrected to 760 mm.), it commenced to
boil at 58°'55, but the boiling point soon rose to 580'9, and then
remained constant.
  A determination      was then made of the density of bromine vapour
as nearly as possible saturated     at 15°.    The globe was immersed in
   VOL. XLVHI.                                                        E

50                           Mr. E. P. Perman.                          [May 8,
a pan of water, and the pressure was made so near the saturation-
pressure that the bromine took three hours to vaporise completely.
  Series  IV. — Temperature,     14°" 7 — 15°;   Capacity of Globe, 445-6 c.c.
              Weight of bromine.          Pressure.               V.-d.
                     grms.                   mm.
       1.         0-4125                    98 -65                80 -3
       2.         0 2661                    63-70                 80-4
       3.         0 1355                    32 10                 813
       4.         0-07205                   16-65                 83-3
    The vapour- pressure of bromine at 15° is 138-1 mm., according to
the tables of Professors Ramsay and Young (' Chem. Soc. Journ.,'
vol. 49, 1886, p. 445).     These results show that, on approaching the
liquid state, bromine has no tendency to form molecules with more
than 2 atoms.       This agrees with the results of Paternd and Nasini
(' Deutsch. Chem. Ges. Ber.,' vol. 21, 1888, p. 2153) by Raoult's method,
which indicated molecules Br2 in aqueous and acetic acid solutions.
   Series  V. — Temperature,    2790,5   (Bromonaphthalene)     ; Capacity of
                              Globe, 448-6 c.c.
              Weight of bromine.          Pressure.               V.-d.
                     gi-ms.                  mm.
       1.           1 -625                 744-7                  80-0
       2.           0-5072                 233-2                   79-8
       3.           0 -2138                  98-1                  80-0
       4.           0-1082                   49-45                 80-3
       5.           0 04939                  21 -85                82-9
    The temperature employed in this series was much higher than the
 temperatures used by Professor J. J. Thomson in his experiments ;
 some of the pressures were much lower, and the total time of heating
 was about five hours, yet there was no sign whatever of any
 dissociation.
    Finally, an experiment was made with bromine in presence of air.
 The bromine was boiled out of the globe at exactly half the atmo
 spheric pressure, and air was then slowly admitted until the pressure
 inside and out was the same.

 1890.]                  Experiments on Vapour-density.                         51
Series    VI. — Temperature,       132"-2 (Chlorobenzene) ; Capacity of Globe,
   509'2 c.o.   ;   Volume occupied by Bromine Vapour, 254'6 c.c.
               Weight of bromine.            Pressure.              V.-d.
                       grms.                    mm.
       1.             1-234                    761 -4                80-3
      2.              0 6379                   392 -3                80-5
      3.              0 1953                   120-0                 80-6
      4.              0-08763                   53 -8                80-7
      5.              0-03972                   23 0                 85-5
   The results are negative, as before, but no doabfc dissociation would
be produced if the temperature were carried high enough, and                I hope
to carry on my experiments with a modified form of apparatus until
dissociation      takes place.      I  must ask my fellow-workers        to kindly
leave to me the completion          of this work.
   Remarks.    — One of the most striking              features in the series of
vapour-densities is the invariable increase in density at low pressures ;
this may be accounted for partly by the error unavoidable in reading
low pressures, and partly by the irregularity in the position of the
Liquid    in the bulb-tube G        ;  but these errors together would never
amount      to more than       1 mm. of mercury, seldom so much.            As the
chief caase of the anomaly,            I would suggest that a film of bromine
may    adhere      to the   glass,    and  thus cause the residual amount of
bromine to be too large.
                              Vapour-density of Iodine.
   Previous Work. — V. Meyer obtained vapour-densities closely corre
sponding to a molecule                at a temperature which he estimated at
1570° (' Deutsch. Chem. Ges. Ber.,' vol. 13, 1880, p. 394).
   Crafts and Meier found a greater amount of dissociation than
V. Meyer at about the same temperature, which, however, they
estimated at 1 390° instead of 1570° ; the lowest vapour-density they
obtained was 75 6 (' Comptes Rendus,' vol. 90, 1880, p. 690).
   Deville and Troost found the vapour- density normal at 860° and
1034° (' Annales de Chimie,' vol. 58, 1860, p. 257) . Crafts and Meier, in
further experiments, obtained complete dissociation of iodine vapour,
and they give a curve showing the amonnt of dissociation at different
pressures and temperatures (' Comptes Rendus,' vol. 92, 1881, p. 39).
Crafts     obtained partial dissociation by a modification of V. Meyer's
method (' Comptes B*ndus,' vol. 90, 1880, p. 183).                Troost obtained
 a very considerable amount of dissociation by the Dumas method at
 1250° ; the lowest number obtained was 81-6 ; he also found the
                                                                        b 2

52                           Mr. E. P. Perman.                         [May 8,
vapour-density at 440° and 34-5 mm. pressure to be 106-2 (' Comptes
Rendus,' vol. 91, 1880, p. 54). The dissociation of iodine has thus
been worked oat with fair completeness, although the results of
                 Fio. 2.                           Fio.  3.
  Forms of Apparatus used for Iodine and Aqueous Hydrochloric  Acid.   (Section.)
 Deville and Troost seem very much at variance with those of other
 experimenters.     The object of my work was to discover the density
 of iodine vapour as nearly as possible saturated.          A modified form of
 apparatus was devised by Professor Ramsay so that the iodine could
 be conveniently introduced       into the globe.       The modification con
 sisted of the introduction of a stopper at the neck of the globe with
 a capillary tube through the centre.       The method of procedure was
 the same as with bromine, except that it was necessary to heat the
  Temperature,    131°-4 (Chlorobenzene)     ;  Capacity of Globe, 517-6 c.c.
              Weight of iodine.          Pressure.               V.-d.
                    grma.                  mm.
       1.          0 6762                 129 -8                126-7
       2.          0 2274                  39-5                 140-0

1890.]               Experiments on Vapour-density.                         53
tube and stopcock     next the globe to a much higher temperature, in
order to volatilise the iodine ; consequently there was great risk of
cracking the stopcock, and this indeed happened several times. The
first (trial)  series gave    results      which   pointed   towards   normal
density.
   In the next series an attempt was made to find the vapour-density
as nearly as possible at the saturation-pressure.         The vapour-pressure
of iodine at 132° is 164 6 mm., from the results of Professors Ramsay
and Young (' Cheni. Soc. Journ.,' vol. 49, 1886, p. 455), and several
determinations were made at about this temperature and at about
150 mm. pressure.       Constant results were not obtained, although           '
much time and trouble were expended on the experiments.                    The
numbers obtained were:— 247-6, 25P2, 2045, and 184'9.              The iodine
was allowed to blow out until none could be seen on the bottom of
the globe, but it was extremely difficult to decide whether it had all
 volatilised or not, and no reliance can be placed on the results, not
 withstanding the close agreement of the first two numbers with
 254 (= 2 X 127).      Another plan was then adopted.
 Vapour -density of Iodine from Determinations of the Velocity of Sound
   byKundt's Method (' Poggendorff's Annalen,' vol. 135, 1868, p. 337).
   The apparatus is best understood from the diagram (fig. 4). The
glass tube CD, about 2 feet long and f inch in diameter, was sup
ported inside a larger tube, GH, by corks, as shown; CD was slightly
                         Fig. 4. — Section  of Apparatus.
 inclined one way, and GH the other. The bulb E contained chloro-
 benzene ; F is a condenser ; AB is a small-sized tube sealed into the
 tube CD at C ; it was enlarged at B, so as to fit the tube loosely,
 but not to touch the walls.
    Method of Procedure. — Some solid powdered iodine was introduced

54                                Mr. E. P. Perman.                           [May 8,
into the tube CD, and shaken down to the end C. Some finely-
divided precipitated silica was then introduced, and distributed along
 BD. The air was expelled by heating the tube with a Bunsen's
 burner, at the same time exhausting it by means of a water-pump ; the
end D was then sealed off. The tube CD was then placed inside the
wide tube GH, as shown in the figure ; the chlorobenzene was boiled,
and when the whole tube had been heated for a few minutes, the
projecting tube AC was rubbed with a cloth moistened with alcohol.
The whole tube AB vibrated, the iodine vapour in BD was thrown
into vibrations, and the silica on the lower part of the tube formed
little heaps at the nodes, and streaks perpendicular to the length of
the tube at the loops.   The tube was then allowed to cool, withdrawn
from the larger tube, and placed on a horizontal millimetre scale (an
etched mirror scale was used).        It was easier to determine the
position of the loops than of the nodes when silica was used. The
mean distance between two loops was then calculated.        Similar ex
periments were made with air.
    Let £j = mean distance between two loops for air.
      Zj    =           „                          ,,            iodine vapour.
            = density of air.
      dg    =      „     iodine vapour.
                 sp. heat at const, press.        -
      ,
      «i    =      —— =             1 ——          for air.
                  sp. heat at const, vol.
      fej   =               „            for iodine vapour.
  Then    it    follows from the laws of the propagation of sound that
   Besults.—ly was found to be (1) 35-4,1(2) 35                   8,
                                                    (3) 35-7, eleven
readings being taken in each experiment.    The mean of (2) and (3)
was taken as the correct value of  these being the most trustworthy
                                            Z,,
experiments.             The results    obtained         for iodine vapour are    here
tabulated — :
                                            Number of
                                                                 V.-d.
                                             readings.
                    1.         15-28                11           132 -0
                   2.          14-94                12           137-4
                   3.          11 -68               10           126-8
                   4.          11-52                10           129-7
                   5.          11 -75                   9        124-7

1890.]                      Experiments on Vapour-density.                  55
     Experiments (1) and (2) are not reliable, as the vibrating glass
 tribe gave a different note from that produced in the experiments on
 air; it gave one of two notes, according to the way in which it
 was clamped.     The interval between these notes was estimated by ear
 as a fourth, but it could not be determined accurately owing to the
 highness of the notes, which appeared also to vary slightly in pitch.
 The mean of experiments (3), (4), and (5) is 126'9. In the calcula
 tion,fcjwas taken as 1*405 (Rontgen), and        as 1'31 (Strecker). These
                                                 fcg
results show conclusively that saturated iodine vapour, and therefore
liquid iodine also, are composed of diatomic molecules,             Ij.   This
result agrees with the late work of Ernst Beckmann             ('  Zeitschrift
fur Physikal. Chem.,' vol.        1890, p. 76) on the molecular weight of
                                   5,
iodine in solution in ether and carbon bisulphide      ; the numbers varied
from 235 to 261 for solutions in ether, and from 263 to 283 for solu
tions in carbon bisulphide.
    A single experiment was performed with bromine in the same
manner      the mean distance between the heaps of silica was 12'22 mm.
            ;
at a temperature of about 29°.        Compared with air at the same tem
perature, this gives      vapour-density 85'05. This points to a normal
                            a
density, as    would  be expected.     There was considerable uncertainty
as to the temperature, because no heaps were formed while the bro
mine vapour was saturated, and the tube was therefore heated with           a
Bunsen's burner.      Iodine vapour refused to give heaps in the same
way    when  left long  enough in contact with liquid iodine to become
saturated.     It was predicted by Professor Fitzgerald, in private a
letter to Professor Ramsay, that sound would not be propagated
through saturated vapour, because the rate of propagation of            acom
pression would not be the same as that of an expansion, owing to the
difference in elasticity in the two cases.      Either the expansion or the
compression of         sound-wave would produce condensation in any
                        a
saturated vapour      in the case of saturated steam, expansion causes
                        ;
condensation, except at high temperatures (above the " temperature
of inversion "). At present there are not sufficient data to calculate
the effect of a wave of compression or expansion upon saturated
iodine vapour but condensation would take place either during
                    ;                                                       a
compression or an expansion, and the ratio dp/dv — and therefore the
elasticity, dp/dv — would be quite different in the two cases. The
                v
sound-waves would interfere with one another, and become confused,
so that no sound would be propagated through the vapour.
    Induction Spark through Iodine Vapour. — An experiment was then
made to determine if the passage of the induction spark through
iodine vapour effected its dissociation.         Professor J. J.     Thomson
obtained vapour-densities     137  and  130 for nnsparked    iodine,  and 110,
115, 84, and 86 for sparked iodine, the last vapour-density being
determined twenty-four hours after sparking.             Professor Thomson

5(5                                  Mr. E. P. Perman.                               [May   8,
                                                    " The
says (' Roy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 42, 1887, p. 344),          appearance of
the dissociated iodine is not greatly different from that of the
unsparked ; its colour, however,               is,
                                      think, a little lighter, and not so
                                                   I
uniform.    was not able to detect any change in the absorption-
                 I
spectrum produced  by the sparking. The electric strength of the
sparked gas was, however, less than that of the unsparked."   The
same apparatus was used, platinum wires being fused into the glass
(see fig.    4).       The jacket used       was methyl
                                         salicylate vapour, tempera
ture 223°'5  the iodine was boiled out at the atmospheric pressure,
                  ;
and the tube then sealed at D. The mean distance between the heaps
without sparking was 14'24 mm., and after sparking for fifteen
minutes, and cooling for three minutes (to allow the vapour to regain
the temperature of the jacket), the mean distance was 14'3 mm.
Another experiment was then made, so that the heaps were formed
during the sparking    the mean distance between the heaps was
                                ;
14'2 mm. on the side of the piston near the vibrator, and 14-4 mm.
on the other side the difference
                           ;      probably due to the heating effect
                                                   is
of the induction sparks.
      The results may          be tabulated thus        :—
                                  Mean distance between heaps.
                      r~                                                       ~\
                      Before sparking.   After sparking.
                                                      "           During sparking.
                            14-24                  143                 142
                                                                       14-4
   Suppose that complete dissociation of the iodine vapour took place
on sparking, then the pressure would be doubled, and therefore the
elasticity would be doubled but the density (taking no account of
                                         ;
the pressure) would remain unaltered.
      Let vl = velocity of sound in the undissociated iodine vapour.
          v3
             =            „             completely dissociated ditto,
             e   = elasticity of the undissociated vapour.
          d      = density of the iodine vapour (same in both cases).
      Then                                   t>,   =    \J   %
and                                          v>=         Vr /2e
      But the distance between the heaps of silica (half a wave-length)
is    directly proportional to the velocity of sound in the vapour there             ;
fore,   any dissociation took place, there would be a marked increase
        if
in the distance between the heaps on sparking.
  The results given above agree within the limits of the errors of

 1890.]              Experiments on Vapour-density.                          57
 experiment,   and  it is concluded, therefore, that sparking does not
 produce any     permanent     dissociation,   although very probably a
 momentary dissociation is caused near the terminals when a spark
passes.    The length of the spark in the iodine vapour was about
1  inch ; the coil was capable of giving a 3-inch spark in air.             By
opening the tube under water, it was found to contain about 5 per
cent, of air ; this would tend to aid dissociation, and would in no way
lessen the value of the experiment.
    The pi-obable experimental error was about         1  per cent.,, and was
cansed by the difficulty in reading the distance         between the loops as
indicated by the arrangement      of the silica.
                  Vapour-density   of Sulphuric Anhydride.
   The apparatus used to determine the vapour-density of sulphuric
anhydride was similar to that used for iodine.               The only work
that has been done on this subject is apparently that by Schultz-
Sellack    (' Poggendorff's Annalen,' vol. 139, 1870, p. 480) and
Mitscherlich (' Watts's Dictionary'), who both found the vapour-
density normal. Some of the trioxide was introduced into a small
flask, the neck of which was then sealed on to the tube from the
inner globe ; it was then sublimed into the globe, which had been
previously exhausted, by heating the flask. The vapour-density was
then determined in the usual way.            The trioxide was absorbed by
water, and estimated by means of a standard ammonia solution.
Using cochineal as indicator, it was found possible to titrate accu
rately to one drop of a decinormal solution in the following way : —
The relative value of seminormal (approximately) solutions of acid
and ammonia was found, and these solutions were then diluted to
decinormal strength; a neutral solution was then made by using
decinormal acid and ammonia in the proportion found for the semi-
normal solutions, and this was used as a standard neutral solution,
with which the solutions titrated were compared.           The chief difficulty
was the formation of sulphuric acid above the stopcock ; it was
partially obviated by introducing a horizontal bulb-tube above the
stopcock — this retained most of the acid.        Only one series of experi
ments was made ; the first result is very nearly at saturation-pres
sure.
                  Temperature.  Weight of SOa.     Pressure.         V.-d.
                        0            grms.            mm.
        1.            22 1         0-1281            56 7            40-9
        2.            22 7         0 -08754          40-5            39-2
        3.            22 -8        0-04876           22 1        Calo. normal.

58                       Experiments on Vapour-density.                               [May 8,
     It   was useless to estimate the residual amount   of trioxide, as sul
phuric acid had collected in the lower part of the globe while the
trioxide was being sublimed into it.            The vapour- density at the
lowest pressure    was  therefore assumed to be normal (corresponding
to S03), as it would be in all probability, and on this assumption the
other vapour-densities are also normal. If the third vapour-density
were actually above normal, the second would be less above normal,
and the first still less ; while, if the third vapour-density were actually
below normal, the others would also be below normal ; these alterna
tives are very improbable, and I regard it as fairly proved that the
formula of sulphuric anhydride is S03, and not S206.
                 Vapour-density of Aqueous Hydrochloric                  Acid.
   Commercial hydrochloric acid was distilled until the boiling point
became constant, at 108'2° (pressure, 745 mm.).    The distillate was
then collected and used for vapour-density determinations ; to find
the percentage of real acid, weighed quantities were titrated with a
standard soda solution.    The acid used in Series          contained            I
20-82 per cent. HC1 ; that in Series II, 21*33 per cent. ; and Series III,
20-45 per cent.  The last two samples were distilled from pure acid.
The vapour-density was found by means of the apparatus used for
iodine.  The acid coming over on lowering the pressure was absorbed
by a standard soda solution in the absorption-tube ; much of                          it,     how
ever, condensed above the stopcock, and caused some difficulty.
                                            Results.
                                         Weight of                                   Theoreti
               Tempera     Capacity
  Series.                                 HC1 and           Pressure.   V.-d.
                 ture.     of globe.                                                 cal V.-d.
                                                   H,0.
                  0           O.C.          grins.            mm.
                131-2       509      2    0-3004             741-8      10 01         10-06
      I.        132-7       649-2         0-3502             773   5     8-81            n
                                          0-8038             575-1      10 -30           11
                                          0-1495             324-4       8-96            H
                                          0-06035            126-5       9-28
      II.       132-2       637-0         0-3204             762-0       9-88         10 09
                                                   -2349     580-9       9-50
                                         0 0 0
                                                                                         ||
                                                    1742     428   7      —              II
                                                   -07778    191-4       9-54            N
     III.       131-5       854                    2134      747        10 -12        10 '04
                                         0 0 0 0
                                  9                                8
                                                   1621      678-8      10-02            tt
                                                   1027      357-1      10-20            11
                                                   04629     146-4      11-22            »>

  1890.]    On Barometric Oscillations during Thunderstorms.                59
    There was some loss in Series        I and II  in removing the acid from
 above the stopcock ; this was done by aspirating air through the tube,
 which was heated by a Bunsen's burner, and absorbing the acid in a
 soda   solution  ;  but an acid fume was formed, which refused to be
 absorbed.     In   Series   III, the apparatus with the jacketed stopcock
 was    used,  and the acid which collected above the stopcock was
 washed out.        The vapour-density in the extreme right-hand column
 is calculated   for a mixture of hydrochloric acid and water in the pro
 portions found by titration.        These results show that no compound of
acid and water is formed, at least at the temperature employed ; they
confirm the results of Bineau, who found a vapour-density 10"04 at
the atmospheric pressure (' Annales de Chimie,' vol. 7, 1843, p. 257).
III.   " On Barometric Oscillations during Thunderstorms, and on
       the Brontometer, an Instrument designed to facilitate their
       Study."        By G. J. Symons, F.R.S. Received April 24,
       1890.
    The fact that    a rise of the barometer occurs during thunderstorms
has    been supposed by many to be newly discovered through the
general establishment of self-recording barometers ; but Dr. Hellmann
has shown that it was noticed by J. J. Planer as far back as 1782.
In 1784, Rosenthal epitomised the facts as follows: — "When a
thunderstorm approaches the place where a barometer is situated,
the mercury in the tube begins to rise ; the nearer the thunder-cloud
comes to the zenith of the observer, the higher does the mercury rise,
and it reaches its highest point when the storm is at the least distance
from the observer.          As soon, however, as the cloud has passed the
zenith, or has become more distant from the observer, the weight of
the atmosphere begins to decrease and the mercury to fall."             A few
years, later, Toaldo determined the amount of the rise in several
storms, and found       it to  be between 1 and 2 lines (0-09 in. to 0'18 in.).
    Professor Strehlke (in 1827-30) made several sets of observations,
and found the rise to be from 0-04 in. to 0'06 in., and was probably
the first to point out that the highest point of the barometer is not
absolutely synchronous with the passage of the centre of the storm-
cloud, but seems rather to be always at a certain distance from it.
                                      '
    Kaemtz, in his ' Lehrbnch (1832), suggests that the rise is pro
duced by the inrush of air towards the site of the storm, this accu
mulation causing the rise of the barometer as the storm nears the
zenith.
    Although Luke Howard had a recording barometer at work in the
early part of this century, he seems to have failed to notice the

60          Mr. G.    J. Symonfl.     On Barometric Oscillations      [May 8,
phenomenon ; and no one in England seems to have been aware of it
until the photographic barometer was started at the Radcliffe Obser
vatory, Oxford.         Manuel Johnson, when describing the new instru
ments at the         British Association meeting at Glasgow, in 1855,
said   : —
    "                                                             rise of the
      Among the most          remarkable   results  is a sudden
barometer, amounting to 0"035 in., and an increase of temperature of
1°, coincident with the occurrence of a thunder clap which struck
one of the churches in Oxford, July 14th, 1855.               A similar phe
nomenon took place daring a thunderstorm on August 23rd, when
the rise of the barometer was still greater, amounting to O049 in.,
though the thunder clap coincident with this rise was distant."
    Mr. Johnson returned to the subject in the volume of ' Radcliffe
                 '
Observations        for 1857, and gave reproductions of fourteen barograms,
but   the  scale  is  so compressed (only \ in. per hour, and 1£ in. per
inch of mercury) that not much is to be learned from them beyond
the fact of falls occurring of 0 037 in., 0"040 in., and 0-046 in., and a
rise of 0-070 in. ; the notes on the storms are also too vague to be
useful.     It may, however, be well to quote the conclusion at which
Mr. Johnson arrived, viz. : —
    " A comparison of these notes with the accompanying illustrations
cannot, in my opinion, fail to lead to the inference that the disturb
ances exhibited both on the barometric and the thermometric curves
 ( especially the former) are caused by the presence of electricity in
the atmosphere, of which we had on these occasions sensible proof.
But they are the more interesting, from the circumstance that
similar disturbances occur not unfrequently when there has been no
•overt manifestation       of that agency ; especially during the winter
months, when, according to the concurrent testimony of all observers,
atmospheric electricity is most abundant."
    The next observation of importance is one quoted by Le Verrier,
as reported to him by the observer, M. Goullon, Cure of Saint- Ruffine
 (Moselle). He had two barometers, a mercurial and an aneroid.            On
the morning of February 5th, 1866, the weather being stormy with
heavy rain, wind S.W., moderate, but not squally, he had just set and
read his barometers, when there was a solitary loud clap of thunder,
and instantly both his barometers rose 2 mm. (0'08 in.).
    The Hon. Ralph Abercromby began studying these oscillations in
1868, and in 1875 summed up the results in the following sentences,
one descriptive, the other explanatory: —
    " There are two classes of storm in this country : in the one the
barometer rises, in the other it falls.        In the case in which it rises,
the sequence of weather         is somewhat as follows : — After the sky has
become overcast, the wind hushed to an ominous silence, and the clouds
seem to have lost their motion, the barometer begins to rise suddenly.

1890.]        during Thunderstorms, and    on the Brontometer.         61
In the middle of this rise, sudden heavy rain begins.   After a few
minutes the rain, with or without thunder and wind, becomes a little
less heavy, and the barometer sometimes falls a little.   The rain
then continues till the end of the squall, and as it stops the barometer
returns to its original level.  In Great Britain the rise rarely exceeds
0"10 in., or lasts more than two hours.        These rises are always
superadded to a more general rise or fall of the barometer, due either
to a cyclone or to one of the small secondaries which are formed on
the side of one.   During some rises the wind remains unchanged ;
with others there is a more    or less complete rotation of the wind. In
all cases the disturbance   seems to be confined to the lower strata of
the atmosphere."
                             " Since the rise is always under the visible
storm,  it is propagated at the same rate and in the same manner as
the thunderstorm.      Enough is known of the course of the latter for
it to be certain that they are not propagated like waves or ripples,
and hence these small barometric rises are not due to aerial waves, as
has been suggested.        Since their general character is the same
whether there is thunder or not, it is evident that electricity, even of
that intensity which is discharged disruptively, is not the cause of
the rise.     If we look at a squall from a distance, we always see
cumulus above       which
                  it,       is harder or more intense in the front than
in the rear of the squall.   Since cumulus   isthe condensed summit of
an ascensional column of air,    it    evident that the barometric rise
                                      is
takes place under an uptake of air.       If we consider further that a
light ascensional current would give rise simply to an overcast sky, a
stronger one to rain, while a still more violent one would project the
air suddenly into a region so cold and dry that the resulting elec
tricity would be discharged disruptively as lightning, the foregoing
observations show that the greatest rise     is under the greatest uptake.
Our knowledge of the mechanics of fluid motion         still too unsettled
                                                      is
for us to say with certainty whether or not an ascensional current of
air would have a reaction backwards, like a jet of air issuing from an
orifice."
   Professor Mascart also, in 1879, expressed the opinion that elec
tricity had nothing to do with these oscillations, but suggested quite
a different explanation.   Premising that they are not produced by all
heavy rains, but only when heavy showers fall during bright weather,
he suggested that at such times rain falls through non-saturated air,
where     would evaporate freely, and so produce a local increase of
         it
pressure which in certain thunder-rains might amount to           mm.
                                                                  2
(0'08 in.).   He explained the diminution of pressure which some
times occurs, by the reversed phenomenon          ;he considered that
thunderstorms   are  formed  locally, and suggested that the condensa
tion of masses of vapour into rain drops ought to produce a diminu
tion of pressure.

62          Mr. G.   J.  Symons.       On Barometric Oscillations       [May 8,
    M. Teissereno     de  Bort and Mr. Budd have suggested that the rise
may be due to the local compression of the air by the multitude of
falling rain drops.
    In the ' Annales ' of the French Meteorological Office for 1880,
M. Renou gives reproductions of some barograms from the Obser
vatory at Pare St.-Manr.             A very interesting one is reproduced in
fig. 1.     M. Renou does not append any remarks to the plate ; but
                                        Fig. 1.
                         Fare St.-Maur, Paris, August, 1878.
from other sources it appears that there was a heavy thunderstorm
from 10 till 11 p.m. on August 18th, 1878.                The total rise may be
taken    as 0*10 in.  and   the fall as nearly  0'15  in.
    Dr. Fines, of Perpignan, established a Redier barograph in 1875,
and in a memoir published in ] 883 gives reproductions of the traces
during several storms.          He states that, considering the present im
 perfect knowledge of the real conditions and origin of thunderstorms,
it seems useless to try to explain records frequently influenced by
very distant storms.           One fact, however, is certain, that thunder
storms are accompanied by great condensation, which must cause
variations in the density of the air, and therefore should affect the
barometer.       He gives 0"144 in. in 20 minutes as the greatest varia
 tion, but says that it rarely exceeds 2 mm. or 3 mm. (0"08 in. or
0'12 in.) in an hour.          The only facts which are certain from the
records at Perpignan are that there is usually (1) before heavy rain,
 decrease of pressure and temperature ; (2) with the rain, sudden
increase of wind, rapid rise of barometer, and fall of temperature ;
 (3) at the end of the storm-rain, reversal of the last three phe
nomena.
     Dr. Giro Ferrari, who has devoted great attention to the progress

 1890.]      during Thunderstorms, and on        the Brontometer.           63
and  character of the thnnderstorcns of North Italy, considers the rise
due to secondaries   on the skirts of cyclones.
   Professor Bornstein regards them as due to temperature changes
not reaching to the upper strata of the atmosphere, in which view he
has partly the support of Professor Ferrel.
   Professor Klossovsky, of Odessa, says that, " Every storm, whether
with or without hail, is accompanied by barometric oscillation."        If by
this phrase he means oscillations like those observed in other parts
of Europe, the phenomena must be different in Southern Russia, for
one of the difficulties in London, for example, is that they do not
occur with all storms, bnt only with some.
                        '
   [n the * Annuaire      of the Montsouris Observatory for 1889, M.
Descroix,    when referring to the subject, gives a barogram for
August     15th,  1888, which, with the accompanying            notes, is so
typical that it is reproduced (reduced to the same scale as the others)
in fig. 2.
                                    Fio.  2.
                        Montsouris, Paris, August, 1888.
   It will  be noticed  that several of the opinions       above quoted    are
contradictory, and     it is not known that any one explanation is
 generally accepted.
    The author was much struck by the remarkable curve given by
 his Redier barograph on the evening of August 2nd, 1879, and still
 more so when he found that the curve from a similar instrument at
 Messrs. Lund and Blockley's, in Pall Mall, 2| miles S. by W. from
 his own instrument, was nearly identical (figs. 3 and 4), and ho has
 long desired to investigate the subject.      At last, in 1886, he definitely
 decided upon the phenomena which he considered it necessary to
 record mechanically.     The author had read the description of Sir
 Francis Ronalds's storm clock, and the objects being similar, that

 64       Mr. G.  J.  Symons.       On Barometric Oscillations   [May 8,
                                    Fia.  3.
                     Camden Square, London, August, 1879.
                                    Fiq.  4.
                       Pall Mall, London, August,   1879.
description was useful, though the completed apparatus has scarcely
one feature which even resembles Sir Francis's.
   Before describing the instrument, the author considers it only fair
to MM. Richard Kreres, to state that not only lias the apparatus been
constructed, but almost wholly invented, by them ; the author decided
upon what the instrument was to do, and upon the scales required,
but he left the whole constructional details to MM. Richard, and
considers the result a great credit to the firm.
   As the primary object of the instrument* is the study of the
phenomena of thunderstorms,          it has, for brevity, been termed a
Brontometer, or Thunderstorm-measurer.
                   * Other uses for it are already apparent.

 1890.J       during Thunderstorms,     and on the Brontomeler.         63
    It is provided with endless paper, 12 in. wide, travelling under the
various recording pens at the rate of 1"2 in. per minute, or 6 ft. per
hour.     This is about 150 times faster than is usual in meteorological
instruments, and enables the time of any phenomenon to be read off
with certainty to a single second of time.
   The traces are made in aniline ink by        a aeries of seven, Richard
pens.
   The first pen is driven by the clock which feeds the paper, so that
the time scale and the paper must go together.           The pen usually
produces a straight line, which serves as the base line for all measure
ments, but at 55 seconds after each minute the pen begins to go, at
an angle of about 45°, one-tenth of an inch to the left, and at the
sixtieth second it flies back to its original position.
   The second pen is driven by one of Richard's Anemo-cinemographs,
a name which they have given to a pattern of anemometer not yet
known in England. The external portion has some resemblance to
the ordinary windmill governor, but it differs from it in that the
plates are curved, not flat ; they are made of aluminium, and are so
light that they have little momentum, and have thus a great advant
age over cups, which run on for many seconds after the wind force
has decreased or ceased.          The fans make one revolution for each
metre of wind that pauses, and send an electric current to the
brontometer, where it acts on an electro-magnet, and tends to draw
this (2nd) pen towards the left ; but a train of clockwork is constantly
tending to draw the pen to the right, the joint result being tliat the
pen continuously shows, not the total motion (as is the case with most
anemometers), but the actnal velocity almost second by second. It
does this certainly with an error of less than five seconds, for the
fans will stop dead in less than that time, and the clockwork train
will bring the pen from indicating a velocity of 70 miles an hour to
20 miles an hour in three seconds, and down to a dead calm in seven
seconds. The trace will thus resemble that of a pressure anemometer,
 but with a much more open scale than was ever before available.
    The third pen is actuated by a handle, and can be set at zero or at
 1, 2, 3, or 4 spaces from it.      The author's original idea was, partly
 by watching a storm-rain-gauge, and partly by estimation, to decide
 on the intensity of the rain and to indicate that intensity by moving
 the pen further and further from zero as the fall becomes heavier.
 Experience alone will show whether that is, or is not, superior to
 moving it one step for each y^th of an inch of fallen rain, which can
 be done by making a Crosley rain-gange send a current into the room
 where the brontometer is placed, and strike a bell there. In a heavy
 storm there will, however, be so much for the observer to do, that
 very probably count would be lost.        It may, therefore, be necessary
 to make    it act automatically.
    VOL.  xlviii.                                                  F

lit)       Mr. G.   J. Symons.      On Barometric Oscillations      [May 8,
     The fourth pen is actuated somewhat like a piano. On the occur
 rence of a flash of lightning, the observer presses a key, the pen
travels slightly to the right, and flies back to zero. Referred to the
automatic time-scale, this gives, to a second, the time at which the
key was depressed.
     The fifth pen is similar, but, being intended to record the thunder,
the observer will continue to hold down the key until the roll is in
 audible.     The time of the departure of this pen from zero will
 evidently   be later than that for the lightning by the time-interval
 due to the distance of the flash, and possibly something may be
 learned from the accurate record of the duration of the thunder.
     The sixth pen is similar to the third, and is intended to record the
 time, duration,    and intensity of hail.
     The seventh and last pen is devoted to an automatic record of
 atmospheric pressure.        As the rapid motion of the paper, which is
 indispensable for studying the details of a thunderstorm, has enlarged
 the time-scale more than a hundredfold, it was imperative that the
 barometric scale should itself be greatly enlarged.       But the range of
 the barometer in London is more than 2^ in., and no enlargement less
 than ten times the natural (mefcurial) scale would be of any use;
 hence a breadth of 25 in. of paper would be necessary, unless some
 mode of shifting the indication could be devised.
     Several plans were tried, but finally a modification of Richard's
 statoscope has been adopted, which is so sensitive that it will indicate
 the opening or shutting of a door in any part of the house, gives a
 scale of 30 in. for each mercurial inch (i.e., about three times that of
 a glycerine barometer), and yet only requires 4 in. breadth of the
 brontometer paper.        Without entering into all the details of con
 struction,   it is desirable  to explain the general principle, and its
 application. As it was essential that the apparatus should record
 accurately to 0001 in. of mercurial barometric pressure, it was
 evident that friction had to be reduced to a minimum, and consider
 able motive power provided.        This is done by placing in the base of
 the brontometer a galvanized iron chamber, which contains about
  3j cubic feet of air ; on the upper part are a series of elastic chambers,
  similar to the vacuum boxes of aneroid barometers, but much larger.
     When the instrument is to be put in action, these chambers are
  connected with the large air-chamber, and a tap is closed which shuts
  off communication with the external air. Any subsequent increase,
  or decrease, of atmospheric pressure will compress or allow to dilate
  the air in these chambers, and the motion of the elastic ones produces
  that of the recording pen.
     Obviously, any large change in the temperature of the confined
 air would vitiate the readings; but (1) the instrument is not required
  to give absolute, but merely differential, values, and (2) the influence

 1890.]         during Thunderstorms, and on                        the Brontometer.                (57
of the changes of temperature is greatly reduced by the chamber
being surrounded with 4 in. thick of non-conducting material, besides
nearly 1 in. of wood outside of it.                          The change of temperature in
a room, and during the short time that the statoscope will be worked
without resetting to zero (i.e., without opening the tap), has not
hitherto produced any measurable effect.
   Tbe author hopes, in a subsequent paper, to have the honour of
laying before the Society the results obtained from this novel
apparatus.
                                              Appendix.
   List of some Papers and Memoirs on the subject of the Paper.
Plineb,    J. J.        " Obs.     Oscillationis     Mercurii     in Tubo    Torricelliuno    Erfordiio
     instituta."                                                  'Acta Acad. Moguntiiue,'     1782- 3.
Rosenthal, G. E.            [" Mcrkmalc fur        das Herannahen d. Gewitter."]
                                                     '
                                                       Mag. Neueste Physik,' vol. 4, Part      I, 178G.
Toaldo, G.       "Dei moti        del Barometro nei Temporali."
                                                             '
                                                               Giornale Astro-Meteorologieo,' 1794.
   (The note is dated April 3rd, 1795 ; see also his collected works — Completa
                                                                                           '
         Raccolta, &c.,' Venczia, 4 vol*., 8vo., 1802, vol. 3, p. 104, and vol. 4, p. 41.)
Frknzel, F. C. [" Vorauderung d. Barometerstandes bei Oewittern."]
                                   Gren's ' Neucs .Journal dor Physik,' vol. 4 (1797), p. 250.
Gbon au, K. L. " Ueber die Gcwitter in den Gegciidou von Berlin."
                                                 '
                                                   Sehweigger's Journal,' vol.     31  (1821),  p. 128.
Stbkhlke, F.         " Uebcr     d. Einfluss d. Gewitter auf don Barorneterstand."
                                               '
                                                 Poggendorff's Annalen,' vol. 19 (1830), p. 148.
 Kafmtz, L. F.        '
                        Lehrbuch der Moteorologie,' vol. 1 (1831), p. 851.
Johnson, M. J.          " On the Detection and Measurement of
                                                                            Atmospheric Electricity
     by the Photo-barograph and Thermograph."
                                                   '
                                                     British Assoc. Report,' 1855, Part II, p. 40.
       '
         Meteorological Observations made at the Rndcliffe Observatory, Oxford,'
     1857, p. 34.
Gocllon.       " Elevation                  du Barometre pendant un Coup de Tonnerre."
                                 brusque
                                                           'Bulletin International,' Mars 21, 1806.
Whitkhouse, W. " On a new Instrument for recording minute Variations of
                                                          '
     Atmospheric Pressure."                                 Roy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 19 (1871), p. 491.
Abebcbomby, Hon. R.
                                  " On the Barometric Fluctuations in Squalls and Thunder
                                           '
     storms."                                Meteor. Soc. Quart. Journ.,' vol. 2 (1875), p. 450.
Fines.     "  Courbes     du    Barographe Redier a Perpignan pendant les Oragcs des 7 et
                                                        '
     11  Juillet, 1877."                                    Quinzaine Moteorologique,' 1877, p. Of!.
MaSCABT, E. " Sur l'lnscription               des Phenomenes         Meteorologiques, en particulier
     de l'lilectricite    et de la Pression."
                                                                                        '
                          'Journal     de Physique,' vol. 8 (1879),      p. 329; and Annuaire de
                                  la Soc. M-t. de France,' vol. 28 (1879), p. 7.
 Schenzl, G.       " Ungewitter        vom 23 Februar, 1879."
                              '
                                Zeits. d. OesU-rr. Gesells. f. Meteor.,' vol. 14 (1879), p. 146.
 Rexou, E.      [Diagrams only.]
                                          ' Annales du Bureau Central Meteor.,' 1880, Part I.
                                                                                          F 2

08                                            Presents.                                [May 8,
Fihbs.    " Climatologie du Bousillon."
                               '
                                 Annales du Bureau Central Meteor.,' 1881, Part I, B. 118.
Absmann . [Interesting reproductions of the Magdeburg barograph curres are given
     in the 'Jahrb. der Meteor. Beob. der Wetterwartc der Magdeburgischen
    Zeitung,' Jahr. 1—5, Magdeburg, 1883-87.]
Koppbn.       " Ueber Barometerschwankungen beim Gewitter."
           '
             Tageblatt der 57 Naturforsoherversammlung zu Magdeburg,' 1884, p. 301.
Uellvann,       G. " Eine historische Bemerkung."
                                'ZeiU. d. Oesterr. Gesells. f. Meteor.,' toI. 19 (1884), p. 43.
Bbzold, W. von. " Ueber die Vertheilung des Luftdruckes und der Temperatur
     wahrend grosserer Gewitter."
                             'Zeits. d. Oesterr. Gesells. f. Meteor.,' vol. 19 (1884), p. 281.
Schojteock, A. " Ueber Kleine unregelmassige                   Schwankungen des Luftdruckes
     nach den Aufzeichnungen            des Barographen."
                            '
                               Zeits. d. Oesterr. Gesells. f. Meteor.,' vol. 19 (1884), p. 396.
Fbbbabi, C. "Ueber die Vertheilung des Luftdruckes und der Temperatur bei
                              1
     Gewittem."                 Zeits. d. Oesterr. Gesells. f. Meteor.,' vol. 19 (1884), p. 426.
       "Andamento tipico dci Registratori durante un Temporale."
                          '
                             Annali Meteorologia Italiana,' vol. 7 (1885), Part I, p. [65].
       " Ueber die Kriimmung der Barometer-curve wahrend des Gewitters."
                                                           '
                                                             Das Wetter,' vol. 1 (1885), p. 135,
SchoNBOCK, A.
                    "   Ueber kleine unregelmassige Barometer-Schwankungen."
                                                  '
                                                    Wild's Repertorium,' vol. 9 (1885), No. 8.
                      '
Klossovskv, A.          Les Orages en Russie.' Odessa, 1886.
Boekstbin, R.       " Die Gewitter vom 13—17 Juli,             1884, in Deutscliland."
                                                    '
                                                      Zeits. f. Meteor.,' vol. 22 (1887), p. 443.
              " Ueber kurze Luftdruckschwankungen,
Less, E.                                                          wclche in Begleitung starker
     BlitzschlSge auftreten."                       'Zeits. f. Meteor.,' vol. 23 (1888), p. 151.
Dkscboix, L. " Phenoinenes accidentals                ...    .  .  a Montsouris en 1888."
                                           '
                                             Ann. de l'Obs. de Montsouris pour 1889,' p. 195.
Fkrbbl, W. ' A Popular Treatise on the Winds,' 1889.
IV. "On the Heating Effects of Electric Currents. No. IV."
       By William Henry Preece, F.R.S. Received April 22,
       1890.
   The Society adjourned over Ascension Day to Thursday, May                               22.
                                    Presents, May 8, 1890.
Transactions.
   Berlin :— Gesellschaft fUr Erdkunde. Verhandlungen. Bd. XVII.
         No. 3. 8vo. Berlin 1890.                                                The Society.
   Brussels : — Academie Royale de Medecine de Belgique. Memoires
          Couronnes.            Tome    X.     Fasc. 1.      8vo. Bruxelles 1890.
                                                                               The Academy.

1890.]                            Presents.                               69
Transactions  (continued).
  Cambridge,     Mass. : — Museum     of   Comparative Zoology, Harvard
       College.    Bulletin.   Vol. XVI.      No. 7. 8vo. Cambridge 1890.
                                                             The Museum.
  Glasgow: — Scottish Society of Literature and Art.              Calendar.
       1889-90.     8vo. Glasgow.                             The Society.
  Liege : — Societe Geologique de Belgique. Annales. Tomes IV — V.
       8vo. Liege 1877-78.                                     The Society.
  London : — Institute of Chemistry of Great Britain and Ireland.
       Register of Fellows and Associates, 1890. 8vo. London.
                                                             The Institute.
    New Athenreum Club.           List of Members and Rules.          12mo.
       London 1890.                                               The Club.
     Royal Statistical Society.      Journal.    Vol. LIII. Part I. 8vo.
       London 1890.                                           The Society.
  New YorK: — American Geographical Society. Bulletin. Vol. XXI.
       Supplement.       8vo. New York 1889 ; Vol. XXII.        No. 1. 8vo.
       New York 1890.                                          The Society.
     Orthopaedic Dispensary and Hospital.           Annual Report. 1889.
       8vo. [New York] 1890.                                 The Trustees.
  Odessa : — Society      des   Naturalistes de la         Nouvelle-Russie.
       Memoires.     Tome XIV. Partie I. 8vo. Odessa 1889.
                                                               The Society.
  Oxford: — Radcliffe Library.          Catalogue   of Books  added,   1889.
       4to. Oxford 1890.                                      The Library.
  Rome : — Accademia Pontificia de' Nuovi Lincei. Atti. Anno XLII.
       Sessione 1-2.      4to. Rovw. 1889.                   The Academy.
Observations   and Reports.
  Berlin: — K. Sternwarte.       Berliner Astronomisches Jahrbuch fur
       1892.    8vo. Berlin 1890.                         The Observatory.
  Calcutta: — Archaeological Survey of India.           The Sharqi Archi
       tecture of Jaunpur.      4to. Calcutta 1889.             The Survey.
     Geological   Survey of India.          Memoirs.   Ser. 13.    Vol. IV.
       Parti. 4to. Calcutta 1889 ; Records. Vol. XXIII. Part I.
       8vo. Calcutta 1890.                                     The Survey.
  Canada : — Geological and Natural History Survey of Canada.
        Contributions to the Micro-Palaeontology of the Cambro-
       Silurian Rocks of Canada. By A. H. Foord. 8vo. Ottawa
        1883.   With Two Maps to accompany the Annual Report,
       1887.                                                   The Survey.
  Columbus : — Ohio Meteorological Bureau. Report. February, 1890.
        8vo. Columbus.                                         The Bureau.
  London : — Meteorological        Office.    Weekly     Weather    Report.

70                                 Present*.                          [May 8,
Observations,    &c. (continued}.
        Vol. VII. Nos. 8-lf>, with Quarterly Summary.            4to. London,
        1890 ; Appendices and Title to Weekly Weather Report, 1889.
        4to. London ; Summary of Observations made at the Stations
        included in the Daily and Weekly Weather Reports.              August
        to December, 1889.       4to. London; Quarterly Weather Report.
        Part I.    January — March,    1880.   4to. London 1889 ; Supple
        ment to Charts showing the mean Barometrical Pressure over
        the Atlantic, Indian, and Pacific Oceans.           [Sheet.]   London
        [1889].                                                    The  Office.
   Marseilles  : — Commission     de  Meteorologie    du   Departement      des
        Bouches-du-Rhone.         Bulletin Annuel.       Annee 1888.      4to.
        Marseille 1889.                                      The Commission.
 . Melbourne: — Observatory.         Resnlts of Astronomical Observations
        made 1881-84.        8vo. Melbourne 1888 ; Second Melbourne
        General Catalogue of 1211 Stars for the Epoch 1880.               4to.
        Melbourne 1889.                                    The Observatory.
   Paris: — Service Hydrometrique du Bassin de la Seine. Resume
        des Observations     Centralisees pendant l'Annee 1888.           8vo.
         Versailles 1889 ; Observations sur les Cours d'Eau et la Pluie,
        1888.     Folio. Versailles [1889].                      The Service.
   Washington : — U. S. Geological Survey.           Atlas to Accompany a
        Monograph on the Geology of the Quicksilver Deposits of the
        Pacific Slope. By G. P. Becker.         Folio. Washington 1887.
                                                                  The Survey.

 1890.]       A Contribution      to the  Etiology  of Diphtheria.          71
                                   May   22, 1890.
       Sir G. GABRIEL STOKES, Bart., President, in the Chair.
   The Presents       received were laid on the table, and thanks ordered
for them.
   The following Papers were read : —
     I. " A Contribution to the Etiology of Diphtheria."* By
          E. Klein, M.D., F.R.S. Received April 25, 1890.
   The microbe, which was first described by Klebs (at the Wiesbaden
Congress in 1883), then isolated and grown in artificial cultures by
Loftier (' Mitth. ans dem K. Gesundheitsamte,' vol. 2) from human
diphtheritic membrane, was shown by this observer to act virulently
on various animals.        The Klebs-Loffler bacillus — by which name the
diphtheria microbe is known — is the one with which also Roux and
Yersin (' Annales de l'lnstitut Pasteur,' vol. 2, 1888, No. 12) obtained
positive results on guinea-pigs.
   In the Reports of the Me.iical Officer of the Local Government
Board    for 1888-1889 and 1889-1890,          1 have shown that there occur
in   diphtheritic    membranes      two species of bacilli, very similar in
morphological respects, and also in cultures on serum and on agar,
but differing from one another in this, that one species, Klebs-Loffler
bacillus No. 1, is not constant in diphtheritic membranes, does not
prow on solid gelatine at 19 — 20° C, and does not act pathogenically
on animals ; the other species, Klebs-Loffler bacillus No. 2, is constant
in diphtheritic membranes, in fact is present even in the deeper layers
of the membranes in great masses and almost in pure culture, acts
very virulently on animals, and grows well on gelatine at 19 — 20° C.
Ldffler, and after him other observers (Fliigge, ' Die Mikroorgauismen,'
 1886), considered it as a character of the diphtheria bacillus that it
does not grow on gelatine below 22° C, but this character, though
true of the Klebs-Loffler species No. 1, does not appertain to the
diphtheria bacillus species No. 2. In fact, there is no difficulty in
obtaining pure cultures of this bacillus on gelatine if a particle of
 diphtheritic membrane be taken and well shaken in two or three
 successive lots of sterile salt solution, and from the last lot plate
    • This research    was undertaken for the Medical Department of the Local
 Government Board, and is communicated to the Royal 8ociety with the permission
 of the Medical Officer.

78                            Dr. E. Klein.                     [May 22,
cultivations on gelatine are made. In this way I have obtained tho
diphtheria bacillus in great numbers of colonies and in pure culture.
Zarniko (' Centralbl. f. Bakteriol. u. PaiMsit.,' vol. 6, 1889, p. 154)
 and Escherich (ibid., vol. 7, 1890, p. 8) both state that the diphtheria
bacillus does grow on gelatine below 20° C.
   This bacillus diphtherias acts very virulently on guinea-pigs on
subcutaneous inoculation ; at the seat of the injection a tumour is
produced, which in its pathology and in microscopic sections com
pletely resembles the diphtheritic tissue in man.       In human diph
theria the diphtheria bacillus is present only in the diphtheritic
membrane, but neither in the blood nor in the diseased viscera ; tho
same holds good for the experimental guinea-pigs.        In subcutaneous
inoculation with artificial culture, though it causes in these animals
acute disease and death — the lungs, intestine, and kidney are greatly
congested — the diphtheria bacillus remains limited to the seat of
inoculation. It was for these reasons that Ldffler concluded that in
diphtheria the diphtheritic membrane alone is the seat of the
multiplication of the diphtheria bacillus, and that here a chemical
poison is produced, which absorbed into the system causes the
general diseased condition and eventually death.       Roux and Yersin
have then separated from artificial broth cultures the bacilli and the
chemical products, and, by the injection of these latter alone into
guinea-pigs, have produced a general effect.       I have in this year's
Report to the Medical Officer of the Local Government Board (1889-
1890) shown that in. these experiments of injection of cultures into
guinea-pigs, an active multiplication of the diphtheria bacilli at the
seat of inoculation can be demonstrated by cnlture experiments ; from
the local diphtheritic tumour and the nearest lymph glands the diph
theria bacilli can be obtained in pure culture on gelatine.
   On various occasions during the last three years information has
reached me by Health Officers (Dr. Downes, Mr. Shirley Murphy,
Dr. Thursfield) as to a curious relation existing between a mvsterious
cat disease and human diphtheria in this manner, that a cat or cats
were taken ill with a pulmonary disease, and while ill were nursed
by children, and then these latter sickened with well-marked
diphtheria.    Or children were taken ill with diphtheria, and either
at the same time or afterwards the cat or cats sickened.      The disease
in the cat was described as an acute lung trouble ; the animals were
quiet, did not feed, and seemed not to be able to swallow ; in some
cases they recovered, in others they became emaciated, while the
lung trouble increased, and ultimately they died. In one instance —
in the north of London, in the spring, 1889 — this cat malady,
occurring in a house where diphtheria soon afterwards appeared
amongst the children, was of a widespread nature ; a veterinary
surgeon — Mr. Daniel — informed me that at that time he had several

 1890.]      A Contribution   to the Etiology  of Diphtheria.           73
 patients amongst cats affected with the disease, consisting in an
acute catarrhal affection, chiefly of the respiratory passages. He
furnished me with two such animals: one that after an illness of
several weeks Lad died, another that was sent to me in a highly
emaciated state, affected with severe broncho- pneumonia ; this animal
was paralysed on the hind limbs.      In both instances the post-mortem
examination showed severe lung disease, broncho-pneumonia,             and
large white kidneys due to fatty degeneration of the entire cortex.
A similar condition is met with in the human subject in diphtheria.
Further,   I received from Dr. Thursfield, of Shrewsbury, the body of
a  cat that had died after a few days' illness from pneumonia in a
house in which children were ill with diphtheria; another cat ia the
same house that became next ill with the same lung trouble also
succumbed.       The post-mortem examination      of -the animal    that  I
received   showed severe broncho-pneumonia and large white kidueys,
the  entire cortex being in a state of fatty degeneration.
   Subcutaneous inoculations of cats were carried out with particles of
fresh human diphtheritic membranes and with cultures of the
diphtheria bacillus (' Report of the Medical Officer of the Local
Government Board,' 1889—1890) ; hereby a local diphtheritic tumour
was produced at the seat of inoculation, and a general visceral disease ;
in the cases in which death followed after a few days the lungs were
found much congested; when death followed after one or more weeks,
the lungs showed broncho-pneumonia and the kidneys were enlarged
and white, the cortex being in a state of fatty degeneration ; if the
disease in the animals lasted beyond five to seven days, both kidneys
were found uniformly white in the cortex ; if of shorter duration, the
fatty degeneration was sometimes only in patches.           Although in
these experiments the bacillus diphtheria was recoverable by cultiva
tion from the diphtheritic tumour at the seat of inoculation, there
were no bacilli found in the lungs, heart's blood, or kidney, and the
conclusion is justified that, just as in the human diphtheria and in the
diphtheria produced by subcutaneous inoculation in the guinea-pig,
so also in these experimental      cats the visceral disease must be a
result of the action of a chemical poison produced by the diphtheria
bacillus at the seat of inoculation.
    From this it is seen that the similarity between the artificial disease
and the natural disease in the cat is very great, and the question that
presents itself is, In what manner does the animal receive or give the
diphtheritic contngium in the natural disease ? The natural disease in
 the cat is in its symptoms and pathology a lung disease, and it is
 reasonable to suppose from analogy that the lung is the organ in
 which the diphtheritic process in the cat has its seat. The micro
 scopic examination of the diseased lung of cats that died from the
 natural disease bears this out, the membrane lining the bronchi in the

74                                 Dr. E. Klein.                        [May 22,
diseased portions of the lobules presenting appearances which in
microscopic character coincide with the appearances in the mucous
membrane      of the human fauces, pharynx, or larynx in diphtheria.
But the correctness of the above supposition, that diphtheria has its
seat in the lung of the cat naturally diseased, was proved by direct
experiment.      Broth culture of the bacillus diphtherias was introduced
into   the  cavity of the normal trachea without injuring the mucous
membrane.       The animals became ill with acute pneumonia, and on
post-morlevi, two to seven days after, there was found extensive
pneumonia, and fatty degeneration of the kidney.                   The bronchi,
inf undibula, and air cells of the inflamed lobules were fouud occluded
by, and filled with, exudation which under the microscope bears a
striking resemblance to human diphtheritic membranes, and in the
muco-purulent exudation in the large bronchi and trachea the diph
theria bacilli were present in large numbers.
   During the last ten or twelve years certain epidemics of diphtheria
have occurred which were traced to milk, but the manner in which
that milk had become contaminated with the diphtheritic virus could
not be demonstrated, although the evidence as to the milk not having
been directly polluted from a human diphtheria case was very strong.
The epidemic of diphtheria that prevailed in the north of London,
in 1878, investigated by Mr. Power for the Local Government Board,
then the epidemic that occurred in October, 1886, at York Town and
Camberley, the epidemic in Enfield, at the beginning of 1888, and in
Barking, towards the autumn of 1888, were epidemics of this cha
racter.    Mr. Power, in his Report to the Local Government Board on
the  Tork    Town and Camberley outbreak, states (page 13) that a
veterinary surgeon had certified that the cows from which the infected
milk was derived were all in good health, but that two of the cows
                    " on
showed " chaps             their teats, and he adds that even two or three
weeks after the epidemic had come to an end — the use of milk having
been in the meanwhile discontinued — he saw at the farm one cow
which had suffered from chapped teats. At Enfield a veterinary
inspector had also certified that the cows were in good health ; but at
Barking the veterinary inspector found sores and crusts on the udder
and teats of the cows.
   I  have made experiments on milch cows with the diphtheria
bacillus, which appear to me to throw a good deal of light on the
nbove outbreaks of diphtheria.
   Two milch cows* were inoculated with a broth culture of the
diphtheria bacillus derived from human diphtheria. In each case a
Pravaz syringeful was injected into the subcutaneous and muscular
  • The cows had been kept     under observation previous to the experiment for ten
days and were in all respects perfectly normal.

 1890.]       A Contribution   to the Etiology of Diphtheria.           75
 tissue of the left shoulder.    On the second and third days there was
 already noticed a soft but tender swelling in the muscle and the sub-
cutaneoas tissue of the left shoulder ; this swelling increased from
day to day, and reached its maximum about the end of the week ; then
it gradually became smaller but firm.          The temperature of both
animals was raised on the second and third day, on which days they
left off feeding, but after this became apparently normal.           Both
animals exhibited a slight cough, beginning with the eighth to tenth
day, and this gradually increased.       One animal left off feeding and
ruminating on     the twelfth day, "fell in" considerably, and died in
the   night from the fourteenth to fifteenth day; the other animal on
                                                               " fell in "
the   twenty-third to twenty-fourth left off taking food,
very much, and was very ill ; it was killed on the twenty-fifth dny.
    In both animals, beginning with the fifth day, there appeared on
the skin of the udder, less on the teats, red raised papules, which in
a day changed into vesicles, surrounded       by a rim of injected skin.
The contents of the vesicles were a clear lymph ; the skin underneath
was much indurated and felt like a nodule ; next day the contents of
the vesicle had become purulent, i.e., the vesicle had changed into a
pustule ; in another day the pustule dried into a brownish-black
crust, with a sore underneath; this crust became thicker and larger
for a couple of days, then became loose, and soon fell off, a dry heal
ing sore remaining underneath.        The whole period of the eruption of
papules, leading to vesicles, then to pustules, and then to black
crusts which, when falling off, left a healing dry pore behind, occupied
from five to seven days. The eruption did not appear in one crop :
new papules and vesicles came up on the udder of ono cow almost
daily between the fifth and eleventh day after inoculation, in the
other cow between the sixth and tenth day; the total number
of vesicles   in the former cow amounted to about 2i on the udder,
four on the teats ; in the latter they were all on the udder and
amounted to eight in all.         The size of the vesicles and pustules
differed : some were not more than £th of an inch, others larger, up to
  — of an inch in diameter ; they had all a rounded outline, some
^    £
showed a dark centre.       From one of the above cows on the fifth day
milk was received from a healthy teat, having previously thoroughly
disinfected the outside of the teat and the milker's hand ; from this
milk cultivations were made, and it was fonnd that 32 colonies of the
diphtheria bacillus without any contamination were obtained from
1 cubic centimetre of the milk.
    Unlike in man, in the guinea-pig and in the cat the diphtheria
bacillus passed from the seat of inoculation into the system of
the cow ; this was proved by the demonstration of the diphtheria
bacillus in the milk. But also in the eruption on the udder, the
presence of the diphtheria bacillus was demonstrated by microscopic

 76                           Dr. E. Klein.                      [May 22,
specimens and particularly by experiment.       With matter taken from
the eruption   — vesicles and pustules — of the udder, two calves were
inoculated into the skin of the groin ; here the same eruption made
its appearance : red papules, rapidly becoming vesicular, then pustular,
and then becoming covered with brown-black crusts, which two or
three days after became loose and left a dry healing sore behind.
More than that, the calves that showed this eruption after inoculation
became affected with severe broncho-pneumouia            and with fatty
degeneration of the cortex of the kidney. In the two cows above
mentioned, on post-mortem examination, both lungs were found highly
congested, cedematous, some lobules almost solid with broncho-pneu
monia in the upper lobes and the upper portion of the middle or
lower lobe respectively ; the pleural lymphatics were filled with
serum and blood.        Haemorrhages in the pericardium and lymph
glands, and necrotic patches were present in the liver. At the seat
of inoculation there was in both cases a firm tumour consisting in
necrotic diphtheritic change of the muscular and subcutaneous tissue.
In this diphtheritic tumour continuous masses of the diphtheria
bacillus were present; their gradual growth into and destruction of
the muscular fibres could be traced very clearly.
    It appears then from these observations that a definite    disease can
be produced    in the cow by the diphtheria bacillus, consisting of a
diphtheritic tumour at the seat of inoculation with copious multipli
cation of the diphtheria bacillus, a severe pneumonia, and necrotic
change in the liver ; the contagious nature of the vesicular eruption
on the udder and excretion of the diphtheria bacillus in the milk
prove that in the cow the bacillus is absorbed as such into the
system.
    From the diphtheritic tumour by cultivation, pure cultures of the
diphtheria bacillus were obtained ; a small part removed from the
tumour with the point of a platinum wire, and rubbod over the
surface of nutrient gelatine or nutrient agar, yielded innumerable
colonies of the diphtheria bacillus without any contamination.          In
cultural characters in plate, streak, and stab cultures, and in cover-
glass specimens of such cultures, this cow diphtheria bacillus coin
cided completely with the human diphtheria bacillus, but in sections
               '
through the diphtheritic tumour of the cow a remarkable differ
ence was noticed between it and the bacillus from the cultures ;
inasmuch as in the tissue of the tumour the masses of the microbe,
both in the necrotic parts, as also where growing into and destroying
the muscular fibres, were made up of filaments and granular threads.
But that it was really the diphtheria bacillus was proved by culture
experiments and by cover-glass specimens.       In the latter, the transi
tional forms between typical diphtheria bacillus and long filaments
with terminal knob-like swellings, with spherical or oblong granules

 1890.J       A   Contribution   to the Etiology of Diphtheria.           77
 interspersed here and there in the threads, conld be easily ascertained.
In the large number of cultivations that were made of the fresh
tumour in both cows, the colonies obtained were all of one and the
same    kind, viz., those of the diphtheria bacillus     ; no contamination
was present in any of the cultivations.
                            Appendix.       May 20.
    Since the above was sent in, the following instructive observations
were made with regard to diphtheria in the cat and cow : —
    At the beginning of the month of April two cats died at the Brown
Institution which had been ill for several days previously.        Their ill
ness bore a remarkable similarity with the illness mentioned in the
preceding pages as the natural (diphtheritic) disease of the cat, the
most prominent symptom being an acute catarrhal affection of the
respiratory tract ; the animals became much emaciated and died.
These two cats — which I will call Nos. 1 and 2— had been quite well
previously and were kept in cages in a special shed, in which normal
cats are generally kept and used for laboratory purposes.         Now, after
the above two cats, all cats which were put into this shed became
affected in the same way : running of nose and eye, injected conjunc
tiva with muco-purulent discharge from tho eye : coughing and more
or less severe bronchial catarrh; the animals were quiet and did
not feed.    Between the beginning of April and the beginning of May
fourteen cats became so affected, some more intensely than others ; of
these several apparently recovered after an illness of about one week
to a fortnight, while five became greatly emaciated, very weak, and
the lung trouble having greatly increased, they died, the illness
lasting two to three weeks. In all five animals the lungs showed
distinct signs of lobular pneumonia.           In one cat (which I will call
No. 3) there was present in the lower part of the larynx and the
upper part of the trachea a whitish false membrane indistinguish
able from human diphtheria membrane ; sections through these parts
conclusively prove this.       In a second cat (No. 4) the trachea and
bronchi contained a thick layer of fibrinous and purulent matter; in
the other three animals the bronchi and infundibula contained puru
lent fibrinous exudation, but the trachea did not show any naked-eye
change.     In all five animals both kidneys were found conspicuously
enlarged   and white, the entire cortex being in a state of fatty de
generation.     It is clear from this that the disease in these animals
was   the same   disease as was mentioned above as the natural as well
as the artificially induced        diphtheria.    Further confirmation was
obtained by microscopic examination of the diphtheritic larynx and
trachea of cat 3. On sections made through the affected portion of
the larynx and trachea the entire mucous membrane was found con

78             Dr. S. Martin.     The Chemical Products of         [May 22,
verted into a swollen infiltrated tissue undergoing necrosis ; in this
 tissue the typical diphtheria bacilli could be seen in large and Bmall
nests and groups in the superficial layers, and extending from them
into the deeper portions of the necrotic membrane. Also in cat 4 cover-
glass specimens of the tracheal and bronchial exudation showed the
presence of the typical diphtheria bacilli.     Now, the above epidemic
started with the disease of the two cats, 1 and 2, about the end of
March, and the question arises : how did the disease originate in these
two animals ? No cats had been ill in this shed, and the two cats were
normal when some weeks previously they were received at the
Brown Institution.      But during the latter half of March had twoI
milch cows in the stables of the Brown Institution ill with diphtheria
induced by inoculation with the bacillus from human diphtheria, in
fact the two cows described on a former page.        They were inoculated
on March 17,     and, as was mentioned on a former page, showed the
peculiar eruption on the udder between the 5th and 11th day; in one
animal on the 5th day, i.e., March 21, the diphtheria bacillus was
demonstrated in the milk drawn from the udder.              As soon as the
eruption   on  the udder  and  the  pulmonary   affection  in the cows were
noticed strict orders were given to the attendant that the milk of
both cows was to be thrown away.         Thisjorder was not obeyed, since
part of the milk was given to the two cats above mentioned, and these
two animals became affected during the last week of March.                I
ought to mention, however, that, though the time at which these
cats became affected is in porfect harmony with the suggestion that
the consumption of the above milk of the affected cow had been
the cause of their illness, the man who attended to the cows was also
attending to the cats.     But in view of the fact that this person was
free from diphtheria,    the  possibility of having conveyed the disease
from the cow to the cat is out of the question, particularly if we
remember that milk containing the diphtheria bacilli had been
actually given to the cats.
II. "The    Chemical Products of the Growth of Bacillus anthracis
      and their Physiological Action." By Sidney Martin, M.D.,
      Pathologist to the Middlesex Hospital. Communicated by
      Dr. Klein-, F.R.S.      Received May     7, 1890.
    The work here recorded was done for the Medical Officer of the Local
Government Board, whose permission           I have for publishing this
abstract, of it.
    The research was commenced in May, 1889.              The bacilli were
grown in a solution of pure alkali-albumin (made from serum-

1890.]         Bacillus anthracis, and their Physiological Action.                      79
proteids)       and of mineral salts of the composition              of the salts of the
serum.
   The cultivation of the bacilli was continued for 10 — 15 days, and
the organisms    removed by filtering through Chamberland's       filter.
The filtrate contained the products of the bacterial growth, viz. : —
   1. Proto-albumose and deutero-albumose, and a trace of peptone : all
with the same chemical reactions as the similar bodies formed in
peptic digestion.
  2.    An     alkaloid.
  3.  Small quantities of leucin and tyrosin.
   The chief characteristic of the anthrax proto- and deutero-albumoso
is their strong alkalinity in solution — an alkalinity not removed by
 absolute alcohol, by benzene, chloroform, or ether, nor by prolonged
dialysis.   Acid-alcohol dissolves ftom the alkaline albumoses a trace
of a poisonous body, but this is not in proportion to the toxicity of
the albumoses.     The albumoses are precipitated in an alkaline condi
tion by saturation with NaCl (proto-albumose)        or (NH4)2S04. The
alkaloid is soluble in absolute alcohol, amyl alcohol, and in water ; in
soluble in benzene, chloroform, and ether.      It is strongly alkaline in
solution, and a powerful base, readily forming salts with acids.        The
sulphate crystallises  in small needles  or prisms ;  the oxalate  in long,
branching iieedles or flat plates. From the salts the alkaloid is easily
regained. In solution, the alkaloid is precipitated by phospho-tungstic,
phospho-molybdic, and phospho-antimonic        acids and platinic chloride,
but not by potassio-mercnric     iodide.* It is slightly volatile, and,
when kept exposed to the air, it becomes acid, and loses, to a great
extent, its poisonous properties.
                                    Physiological Action.
  1.    The mixture of anthrax proto- and deutero-albumose is poisonous.
In small        it produces in mice a local subcutaneous oedema, with
               doses
some sluggishness,    ending in recovery.       Larger doses produce a
greater  oedema   with  more  signs of illness,  sluggishness leading to
prolonged stupor, corns, and death in twenty-four hours or longer.
A fatal dose for a mouse of 22 grams weight is 0'3 gram (subcu-
taneously injected). In some cases the spleen is enlarged : no organ
isms being present, as shown by gelatine tube cultivations.      Boiling
for a short time diminishes the toxicity of the proteid, but does not
completely destroy         and death may result from the boiled
                              it,
albumoses.
  2.    The anthrax alkaloid produces symptoms                   and lesions similar to
  •    With Millon's    reagent, a precipitate   is   formed which becomes red on heating.
This   is   the same reaction as that giyen by most proteids, and shows that the base   is
probably an amido-compound. — May 17, 1890.

 80                         Mr. A. Willey.      On the              [May 22,
the albumoses, but mnch          more rapidly and severely.       The animal
becomes    ill directly after  the injection, gradually becomes more and
more sluggish, and dies in coma, or, if a non-lethal doso be given, it
recovers from the state of stupor gradually. After death enormous
 local subcutaneous oedema is fonnd, with congestion and sometimes
 thrombosis of the small veins.         Peritoneal effusion is occasionally
 present,   and   the   spleen  is usually  enlarged, dark, and congested,
 or simply congested without being greatly enlarged.           The fatal dose
for a    mouse   weighing 22 grams is between          O'l  and   015 gram,
 death occurring in two to three hoars.
    The anthrax bacillus in digesting         the alkali-albumin forms    (I)
 proto-albnmose, (2) dentero-albumose, (3) an alkaloid. The alkalinity
 of the albumoses may explain their toxic properties, being due to
 the fact that the alkaloid is in a
                                          " nascent " condition in the albu-
 mose molecule. .The bacillus forms the alkaloid from the albumose,
 and it is possible that the living tissues have a similar action when
the albumose is introduced into a living animal.
 III.  " On the Development of the Atrial Chamber of Amphioxus"
       By Arthur Willey, Student of University College,
       London. Communicated by Professor Ray Lankesier,
       F.R.S. Received May 5, 1890.
                                    Preface.
    Last year, through the kindness of Professor Lankester, I had the
 opportunity of spending several months — May to August — in Sicily,
 collecting the embryos and larva? of Amphioxus.
    Since then I have been working continuously on the material I
obtained in the laboratory of University College, under the direction
of Professor Lauke&ter.         The period of the development, to which
Professor Lankester determined first of all to give attention, was
that before which Hatschek's well-known work stops short. He
proposed that I should cut sections, so as to ascertain the mode in
which the atrial chamber takes its origin and the subsequent history
of«the gill-slits, viz., as to how the slits on the left side of the pharynx
originate.    The relation of the larval to the adult mouth and the
details of the curious process of movement of the mouth from a uni
lateral to a median position were included in the scope of our
enquiries.
    Professor Lankester received a grant from the Government Grant
Committee in aid of the present investigation, and it is therefore neces
sary to state that he has constantly supervised my work, and allows

   1890.]       Development      of   the Atrial  Chamber  of Amphioxus.         81
   me to publish in my own name a summary of the results which             I have
   obtained under his guidance.
      Amphioxus      occurs    in great numbers in a comparatively small lake,
  or pantano, which is situated behind, and separated from the sea by,
  the village of Faro, near Messina.             It is connected with the Straits
  of Messina by a narrow canal, some two or three hundred yards in
  length.
      The bottom of the pantano, in contrast to that of the Straits,
  consists of foul mud ; and it may be mentioned in this connexion, as
  I was informed by Professor Kleinenberg, that Amphioxus is only
  occasionally met with in the Straits, and is entirely absent from
  another larger pantano which lies behind the neighbouring village of
  Gauzirri, and is joined by a short canal to the one at Faro.
     The embryos float on the surface, and are to be had by dredging on
 the surface at sunrise, but the readiest method of obtaining them in
 quantity is to take the adults in glasses and allow them to spawn
 there, if they will.         Spawning takes place about an hour after sun
 down.
     The ova,     if fertilised,    must   be very carefully distributed among
 several glasses containing clean, but unfiltered, water from the
pantano.        If the water is filtered, or if sea water is employed, or if
 too many ova are placed in one glass, they will certainly either die or
develop abnormally.
    The first outward and visible sign of fertilisation is the separa
tion from the egg-cell of the yolk-membrane (Dottermembran) .
    Most, if not all, of the ova that        I obtained were discharged through
the atriopore.
    If Kowalewsky* had not seen them issuing from the mouth, it
would not have been easy to understand how they could pass into the
pharynx in opposition to the constant outflow of water between the
gill-bars.
    Segmentation always commences at dusk — between the hours of
seven and eight — and goes on very rapidly through the night.
    The early stages have been so fully described by Hatschekf that I
will only refer to them in the briefest manner.
    At 8 p.m. segmentation commences; at 11 p.m. invagination com
mences ; at 1 a.m. the gastrula is complete ; at 3 a.m. the gastrula
begins to revolve by cilia within the yolk-membrane ; and at 5 a.m.
two pairs of myoccelomic pouches have been formed, and the embryo
ruptures the egg-membrane and becomes free-swimminjr.
    During the first day the embryo grows in length and adds several
pairs of somites. By about eight o'clock on the seccnd morning, that
   * " Entwick. des Amph. lane." (' Mim. Acad. Imper. des Sciences de St. Peters
burg,'   Series  VII,  vol. 11, 1867.)
   t  Clam's  '
                Arbeiten,' 1881.
    VOL. XLVIII.                                                        G

82                          Mr. A. Willey.        On the           [May 22,
is, thirty-six hours after the commencement of segmentation,             the
embryo has acquired a mouth on the left side of the body, and a         gill-
slit, which arises at first in the median ventral line, and subsequently
comes to lie on the right side of the body.
    The anus is formed soon after the appearance of the mouth and
first gill-slit.
    The embryonic period is now at an end, and the larval period
begins. As Hatschek states, the only way of obtaining the larval stages
is by pelagic fishing.        This consists in dredging at depths varying
from fifteen to twenty fathoms.           At this depth the Amphioxus larvae
float in the midst of countless thousands of Sagitta larva?.
    A long, but not yet clearly ascertained interval (probably about a
fortnight) elapses between the formation of the first and second gill-
clefts.
    In the period dnring which it is free-swimming the larva acquires
from twelve to fj fteen consecutive unpaired gill-slits, each one arising
in the mid- ventral line, and then growing in such a manner as to lie
on the right side of the body. This applies to the anterior two-thirds
of the pharynx, bnt I am not quite clear yet as to whether the last
two or three median slits ever move up to the right side. Meanwhile,
longitudinal ridges which are subsequently concerned in the forma
tion of the atrium have appeared (see fig. 6).
   At the time of the completion of the atrium, which occurs at the
close of the larval period, some remarkable changes in the relative
position of parts of the body in the anterior region take place, by
which the mouth becomes median, and the gill-slits are arranged in
two series, a right and a left.        The larva emerges from this critical
phase in its development as a symmetrical animal, but the details of
the process of symmetrisation — the strongly- marked character of
which justifies the use of an otherwise undesirable term — are still
rather obscure.        The larva, now really a young Amphioxus, with
atrium and paired gill-slits, ceases to lead a pelagic life, and takes to
the sand, where it passes the rest of its life.
    Spawning occurs at least from April to September inclnsive. The
best month, however, in which to obtain the embryos is June, while
all the larval stages, up to the passage into the adult form, are to be
found during July and August.
              Previous View as     to the Formation of the Atrium.
    The hitherto    accepted method of formation of the atrial chamber
of Amphioxus is that described by Kowalewsky,* and more fully by
Rolph.f
                    • ' Archiv fur Mikrosk. Anat.,' vol. 13, 1877.
                    t '
                        Morphol. Jahrbucli,' vol. 2, 1876.

 1890.]     Development       of  the Atrial     Chamber       of Amphioxus.            83
    Kowalewsky says that after a certain number of gill-slits have
 been formed     two longitudinal folds appear on opposite sides of the
 body, which grow round and meet, and finally fuse together in the
 median ventral line, leaving a wide aperture at one end — the atrio-
 pure.    His figures, two of which are herd reproduced (tigs. 1 and 2),
                    Fia.  1.                                            Fio. 2.
   Copies of Kowalewsky' s figures of transverse           sections  thrmgh a larva of
Amphioxus with fully-formed atrium.         Fig. 1 represents a section taken between
pharynx and atrioporc ; and fig. 2, one taken just behind the atrioporo of the same
larva.
                    Inf. Intestine.    at. Atrium.         l.h. Ccelom.
bear    this description out, more or less, while Rolph's schematic
figures bear it out entirely.         The latter are reproduced in figs. 3, 4,
and 5.
                                        Fig.    3.
  Copy of Rolph's theoretical section     through the pharyngeal region of        a larra,
before the commencement of the so-called      epipleural folds.
                 N. Nerve-cord.               Ch. Notochord.
                 M. Muscles.                  /.//. Ccelom.
                 I).  Intestine.              a.    Intestinal epithelium.
                 I.   Epidermis.
                                                                             G  2

84                              Mr. A. Willey.       On the              [May 22,
                                         Fig.  4.
  Copy from Rolph of a similar section through an older larva, showing the com
mencing longitudinal downgrowths.
                 E. Epidermis.
                 E|. Inner epithelium of the (future) atrial cavity.
                 2fj. Outer epithelium of same.
                  U.   Subcutaneous tissue.
   Other letters as  in fig. 3.
                                          Fio.  5.
   Copy from Rolph of a similar section showing the         meeting  together of the
" epipleura " in the ventral middle line.
                                 A. Atrium.      R. Raphe.
   Other letters as in figs.  3 and 4.

1890.]      Development        of   tlie Atrial   Chamber   of Amphioxiis.       85
     The most serious error in Kowalewsky's view lies in the fact that
he makes the space            in the lateral outgrowths continuous with the
                                                   " Leibeshohle," or coelom.
body-cavity,     and    consequently calls it
     This space, as we shall see, does not belong to the true ccelom, and
is not traceable as a space to the original myocoelomic pouches, but
ar ses apparently as an inter-cellular space in the midst of the con
nective tissue— in fact, it would seem to belong to that category of
spaces to which the term " psendoccel
                                                     "
                                                       has been applied.    In this
respect it stands in contrast to the spaces in connexion with the
dorsal and ventral fins, which have been shown by Hatschek to be
derived directly from the myocoelomic pouches.
     Rolph's figures (figs. 3, 4, 5) do not profess to be more than
diagrams.       They show the epipleur originating as a depending ridge
on each side of the pharynx (fig. 4). Into this ridge the coalom is
 extended.      The epipleura meet finally in the middle line below the
 pharynx according to this theory (fig. 5). It is no doubt true that
 t lie scheme of growth            thus sketched by Rolph, and based upon
 Kowalewsky's erroneous figures, would account satisfactorily for the
 condition of the atrial chamber and its epipleura! walls as observed
 in the adnlt.         It also gives a basis for the suggestion made by
 Kowalewsky that the epipleura are comparable to the opercula of
 Teleostean fish.
      I now propose        to show       that   this view is bused on erroneous
  oliservation.
             Formation of the Atrial Chamber as observed by me.
      The first indication of the commencing formation of the atrial
  chamber is to be found in larva) with nine or ten gill-slits on the
  right side. Behind the region of the pharynx we find that the mid
  line of the body has become marked with a narrow groove, so that in
  section it is bifid (fig. 6). The short upstanding ridges which limit
  the groove are the metapleura of the adult.                 Though at first solid,
  the connective tissue within the ridge soon becomes hollowed,
  and forms a lymph space which never has any obvious connexion
  with the ccelom.        These ridges can be traced from about the middle
  of the larva's body forward towards the pharyngeal region, where they
  diverge considerably from one another. That belonging to the animal's
  left side keeps a more or less median position, and can be traced
   (though but small in elevation) when twelve gill-slits are present as
  a ridge situated at the lower or ventral margin of the gill-slits and
  dving out in the anterior region of the pharynx. The right-hand
   ridge, or metaplenr, takes a course to the right of the gill -slits (which,
   it will be remembered, are on the right side of the body), and over
   hangs the upper limit of the slits to a small extent.              It dies out in
   front of the   first  gill-slit, where    it bends towards the  middle  line.

86                                Mr. A. Willey.         On the                [May 22.
                         Fig.  6.                                 Fig. 7.
    Fig.   6. — Transverse section     through a larva with eleven or twelve unpaired
gill-slits and with lateral mouth, showing the minute sub-atrial ndges.
            d.m. Dorsal division of myoccel in which the fin-ray will lie « hen it is
                     developed.
              »c. Nerve-cord.
            ncA. Notochord.
               M. Muscle-plate.
             my. Cavity of myoccel.
            d.a.  Dorsal aorta.
            Int. Intestine.
          d.l.m. Double-layered      membrane   separating  the  myoccel from the splam-h-
                     nocoel.
              tp. Primitive   splanchnococl.
             v.a. Ventral vessel.
            met. Metaplour.
          t.a.r. Sub-atrial ridges.
    Fig.   7. — Transverse section    through a slightly older larva. The sub-atrial ride?
(?.o.r.) have fused for a short distance between atriopore and pharynx ; but in the
pharyngeal region the atrium is unclosed, and consequently the gill-slits still open
directly to the exterior.
              at. Atrium.
    The atrium is formed by a small horizontal growth (s.a.r. in
fig. 6), which starts from the inner Tace of each metapleur and floors
in the deeper half of the groove or area between the two meta-
plenra (fig. 7, at.).
    These horizontal growths may be called the sub-atrial folds.

  1890.]     Development       of the Atnal    Chamber of Amphioxus.       87
     They are at first extremely small, and the atrial space floored in is
 a mere canal.        Later the width of the atrial space increases greatly,
 and the sub-atrial folds consequently widen also, becoming that
  pleated expansible floor of the atrial chamber, with its transverse
  muscular layer, which all observers of Amphioxus know so well
  (rig. 9, s.a.r.).
     The atrial groove becomes floored in first in the region of the
 atriopore.       The growth of the sub-atrial folds extends gradually
 forwards, and the closure proceeds along one side (the right) of the
 pharynx. The whole atrium thus formed is a very small tube-like
 space.     The closure by means of the small horizontal sub-atrial out
 growths in the region of the large gill-slits is somewhat difficult to
 explain.      The small left metapleur actually moves in course of
 growth from the mid-line, and rises on to the right side somewhat.
 At the same time the much larger right metapleur is deepened, and
 overhangs the slits. Then the little horizontal junction is effected,
 and we get actually a nearly tubular atrium receiving the openings
 of successive gill slits. With subsequent growth the narrow atrial
                                        Fig. 8.
   Transverse section through an advanced larva with fully-closed atrium. The
latter has begun to encroach on the coolom (sp).
    Letters as in figs. 6 and 7.

88        •          The A trial Cham her of Amphioxus.                   [May 22,
                                        Fig.  9.
  Transverse section through an adult Amphioxus.        The atrium has grown up so
H9 to divide the primitive splanchnoco?l into two portions — an inner or splanchnic,
and an outer or parietal, portion (»p'. and up.").
          tp. The portion of the primitive splanchnoccel which i? not so affected by
                 the atrium, and which persists as the dorsal coelom.
         *p". The parietal part of the splanchnoccel.
        sp"'. Its expansion as perigonadial coelom,
         f.r. Fin-ray.
   Other letters as in figs. 6 and 7.
                                      —
               (The above figures 6 9 are all somewhat   diagrammatic.)
tube widens and pushes itself right and left, so as to encroach on the
space hitherto occupied by the ccelom, and finally it extends so far
dorsalwards as nearly to surround the alimentary canal (see figs. 8
and 9).
    The evidence of this history, in the form of careful drawings of
consecutive sections from snout to atriopore, at various stages in the
closure of the atrium,         I purpose to publish shortly in the
                                                                        '
                                                                          Quarterly
Journal of Microscopical Science.' For the present 1 am anxious to point
out, firstly, that this mode of formation of the atrium as a narrow groove,
which closes and sinks (as it were) into the body of the Amphioxus,

  1890.]      On Rapid Variations         of a Difference of Potential.        89
  is  really different in important respects from the enclosure of a space
  by   downgrowth of large folds, though ultimately no doubt the two
  contrasted modes of formation come to the same thing so far as the
  more obvious morphological relations are concerned.             The mode of
  formation which really occurs in Amphioxus is readily harmonised
  with the existence of the post-atrioporal extension of the atrium
  which gradually tapers to a fine caecal canal. It also gives us an
  essentially different view of the region called "epiplenr"by Lan-
  kester, and generally so designated, from that which Rolph's theory
 necessitated.       That portion of the epiplenr into which the myotomes
 of the body-wall exteud is seen now to be no downgrowth, no exten
 sion or fold.      It is the original unchanged body-wall which bounds
 the sides of the animal's body in front of the atriopore, just as much
 as it does behind.        The only new growth in the atrial region which
 takes part in the limitation of the surface is the suh-atrial growth
formed by the two little horizontal folds which floor in the atrium
when it is a mere canal. These in the adult are represented by the
limited region of longitudinally pleated ventral wall between the two
metapleura.
     Lastly, the formation of the atrium as a narrow groove which
closes, sinks into, and Expands within the body of Amphioxus, is
much more readily comparable to what is known of the formation of
the atrial chamber         in the Ascidians than is the Kowalewsky-Rolph
scheme.       In the Ascidian a pair of in-pnshings are formed, each with
a   circular orifice of invagination ; they expand within the bodjr, fuse
with one another to form one cavity, and one of the circular orifices
disappears.        In Amphioxus we have a single in-pushing with a longi
tudinal orifice of invagination, which closes as the invagination forms,
excepting at its hindermost border, and then expands to a greatly
increased volume.
     The comparison of the so-called epipleura of Amphioxus with the
opercula of Fishes has only a remote morphological basis, and prob
ably no genetic relationship exists between these two structures.
IV. "On        a Method of determining the Value of Rapid Varia
        tions of a Difference of Potential by means of the Capillary
        Electrometer."          By George J. Burch, B.A.            Communi
        cated by Professor Burdon Sanderson, F.R.S. Received
        April   25, 1890.
     In  1832 a paper by      Professor Burdon Sanderson* appeared in the
'
   Biologisches Centralblatt,' in which an account was given of the
    * Burdon Sanderson, " Die elektrischen Erscheinungen am Dioiiaeublatt," ' Bio
logisches   Centralblatt,' 15 Oct., 1882.

90         Mr. G.  J.  Burch.   On determining   the Value  of [May     22.
employment of photography for the production by means of the
capillary electrometer of records of the electrical phenomena ac
companying the excitation of the leaf of Dioncca.      Other physiologists
have availed themselves of this method for the purpose of determining
the times at which the electrical changes in living tissues begin and
end, but no complete investigation has been made of the relation
between the curves obtained and the amount of variation of the
difference of potential of which they are the expression.
                                      I
    A series of experiments which undertook two years ago, at the
suggestion of Professor Burdon Sanderson, for the purpose just in
dicated, has led to the discovery of a method by which it is possible
to determine from the photographed curve the difference of potential
corresponding to any part of its course.
    I  propose in this preliminary note to state briefly the experimental
results upon which the method is based, to describe the application
of it in its simplest form to the analysis of a photographed curve, and,
 dually, to indicate the corrections    which have to   be applied  to the
 approximation thus obtained.
                            I. The Normal Curve.
    The magnified      image of the capillary, pointing vertically down
 wards, is projected through a slit upon a sensitive plate travelling
 horizontally at a uniform rate. During the passage of the plate
 behind the slit a sudden permanent difference of potential of known
 value is introduced between the terminals of the electrometer, causing
 the meniscus to move from its original position of rest to another
 level, the movement being recorded on the plate by the curved
 outline of the shaded portion.        This will be referred to as the
 " normal curve," and the movement as a " normal excursion."
     (1.) By direct photographic evidence I have proved that there is
 no measurable      delay between the communication of a difference of
 potential and the commencement of the movement of the meniscus.
     (2.) Under ordinary circumstances the meniscus ceases to move the
 instant the      source of electromotive    force is withdrawn.       [See
 also (7)].
      (3.) The normal curve is of the same form and dimensions so far
  as it extends, no matter what may have been the difference of poten
  tial which produced it. The accompanying diagram illustrates a
  normal curve taken with a large resistance, and low down in the
  capillary, so that variations of resistance during the excursion
  [see (7)] may be neglected.       The entire curve corresponds to a
  difference of potential of O'Ol volt. The portion above the line
  through 5 is the entire normal curve for 0 005 volt, and the portion
  above P is the curve for 0'0019G volt.

1890.]        Rapid Variations of a Difference of Potential.                                                               5)1
 .V                 T          N.                    0       T.                              As</mploti-               -   i
  f
           Wmk
                                                       3
                                                       4
                                                       .,                                    0 05 Volt,
                                                       S
                                                                          '              '        "
                                                                                   ¦".
                                                       7                      '•             ¦        :      ...
                                                 \
                                                     B
                                                     9
                                                       m                                     01       Volt
 p                                               y
              Oy = axis of  graduated in       of  volt.
                             t, jr,
                                                                      a
              Ot = axis of  and asymptote of the curve.
              PN and PiN, = ordinate* at the points and                   P                  Pi   respectively.
              PT and P,T, = tangents.
              NT and N,T, = subtangents.
                                      [NT   - N,T,.]
   (4.) The time required by the meniscus to traverse half the dis-
tan«e through which the sudden introduction of a permanent
difference of potentinl would cause   to move, is, within wide limits,
                                                        it
independent    of the  amount of that difference.  This time may bo
conveniently referred to          " time of half-charge." It
                                      as the                        one of                                        is
the constants of an instrument, and      affected only [with the excep
                                                            is
tions indicated in (7)]        bj
                            the external resistance of the circuit.
   (5.) The  above  conditions   are fulfilled     the equation to the        if
normal curve       is              = ct, where
                        of the form log            the vertical dis-
                                                  -1                                 y       is
                                 a
tance of point
          a       upon the curve from its asymptote (i.e., the level
                        P
at which the meniscus finally comes to rest) and     the horizontal                          <    is
distance of   from a point
              P             upon the asymptote, which
                                        O                taken as                                            is
the origin of coordinates. There    a well-known characteristic ot
                                                        is
all curves having this equation, by which they can be easily re
cognised, namely, that the subtangent NT, or intercept upon the
asymptote between the tangent PT of any point                                                P     upon the curve
and its ordinate PN,     of constant length.
                               is                                                   I             have accordingly
measured  the length of the subtangent at various points upon a
number of normal curves, and find  to be constant for each electro
                                                       it
meter, except so far as               it   is   altered          by the total                     resistance           of the
circuit and the variationsof resistance,                              which will be referred to
                                                                  <fec,
in (7).   The normal curve      therefore  is                       approximately the logarith
mic curve.

i'2      On  Rapid Variations of a Difference of Potential.       [May 22,
II.    Curves produced by Rapid Variations, of Unknown Amount,        of  the
                Difference of Potential between the Terminals.
    (6.) From (1), (2), and (3) it follows that in all cases the velocity
with which the meniscus is moving at any instant is that with
which it wonld start if the zero line were moved to the level then
occupied by the meniscus, and the difference of potential existing at
the time between the terminals of the electrometer were suddenly
introduced and made permanent.           Thus the total indicated difference
cf potential is made up of two parts, viz., the difference represented
 by the distance through which the meniscus has already moved, and
that indicated by the velocity with which it is still moving.
     This being so, there are two ways in which the actual difference of
 potential at the moment       corresponding to any point upon the pho
 tographed curve may be estimated.          The first is to compare it with
 a normal curve, on which a point must be found of which the tangent
 coincides in direction with the tangent at the required point of the
 curve under examination.        The vertical distance of this point upon
 the normal curve from its asymptote will express the remainder of
 the difference of potential, provided that the resistance in circuit was in
 both cases the same.
     The second method depends upon the property of the logarithmic
 curve mentioned above.         Upon an eularged copy of the curve to be
 investigated, points are taken corresponding         to equal intervals of
 time {e.g., O'OOl sec). Through each of these points a tangent and
 an ordinate ure drawn, and produced, upwards if the cnrve is rising,
 or downwards if it is falling, until the horizontal distance between
 the tangent and the corresponding ordinate is equal to the length of
 the subtangent of the normal curve.         The level at which this is the
 case    is that to which the meniscus would have risen or fallen, had
  the difference of potential between the terminals at that instant been
  made permanent, and is in fact the position of the asymptote of the
  corresponding normal excursion.         Consequently, a line touching the
  ends of all the ordinates so produced will represent the variations of
  difference of potential during the experiment, upon the same scale as
  the normal curve.
       (7.) This result is only an approximation ; to make it accurate
  three kinds of corrections have to be made, as follows : —
      (a.) Calibration Terrors.
                                — The capillary may not be of equal sensi
  tiveness throughout the part employed.         In this case the electrical
  capacity of the electrometer viewed as a condenser will also vary
  with the position of the meniscus in the tube, so that the correction
  is difficult to make, and should be avoided by selecting a suitable
  instrument.
                         — In instruments with small internal resistance,
      (b.) Overshooting.

1890.]                      A Bacteria-killing Globulin.                               93
and in which the friction is reduced                 to a minimnra, the mercury
column appears to acquire a certain momentum, so that the state
ment in (3) no longer applies, and the instrument is not dead beat
in its action.        It may, however, be made so by the introduction of a
sufficiently large resistance.
    There is also another form of overshooting, due to the elasticity of
the meniscus itself, the effect of which upon the curve is distinct,
and different.         Both these forms of error are rare.
    (c.) Variations of Resistance during an Excursion.
                                                                     — The principal
seat of the iuternal resistance of the capillary electrometer being the
slender column of dilute acid in the tube, the length of which varies
with the movement of the meniscus, it is evident that the total re
sistance must vary during an excursion.                The effect of this variation
of resistance may be detected in excursions of considerable extent,
and the amount of it measured.                I have found that the error due to
this cause is seldom more in practice than one per cent. The method
of applying these corrections, together with a description of the ap
paratus employed, and a discussion of the points of theory involved,
I  hope to publish at no distant date.
    The investigations of which the results are given above were
 made in the Physiological Laboratory, Oxford, the resources of
which were placed at my disposal for the purpose by Professor
Burdon Sanderson,
V.     "A     Bacteria-killing Globulin."              By E. H. H.vnkin, B.A.,
         St. John's College, Cambridge, Junior George Henry
        Lewes Student. Communicated by Professor Roy, F.R.S.
        (From the Pathological Laboratory, Cambridge.) Received
        May 21, 1890.
    The results described in the present paper were arrived at by the
 author while trying to discover the nature of the substance to which
 the bacteria-killing powers of the blood serum were duo.*
    The results obtained by Nuttall,f Buchner.J and Nissen§ have
 shown that the blood serum, independently of any cellular elements,
 has a certain power of killing bacteria.              The method used by these
    * My work was aided by grants from the British Medical Association and from
 the John Lucas Walker Fund.
    +
       " Experiment* fiber die bakterienfeindlichen Kinfliisse des thierischen Korpers,"
 '
   Zcitechrif t ffir Hygiene,' vol. 4, 18as, p. 353.
       " Ueber die baktorientodtende Wirkung des zellenfreien Blutaerums," ' Central-
    X
 blatt fur Bakteriologie und Parasitenkunde,' vol. 5, p. 817, and vol. 6, p. 1, 1889.
       " Zur Kennlni9s der bakterienvernichtenden Eigenschaft        des   Blutes," '
                                                                                      Zeit-
    §
 schrift fur Hygiene,' vol. 6, 1889, p. 4S7.

94                                 Mr. E. H. Hankin.                            [May 22,
 authors, and which        I have applied to this research, is to mix a small
quantity     of  a   culture   with a few cubic centimeters of blood serum.
A drop of this serum is immediately taken, and a gelatine plate
culture made with it. Again, at intervals varying from a half to
twenty-four hours, plate cultures are made containing drops of the
serum.       The first plate culture serves as control.                 The number of
colonies that appear in it is observed.                  A progressively decreasing
number of colonies will be found in the succeeding plate cultures,
owing to the gradual decrease in the number of bacilli that remain in
a living condition in the blood serum.                  A curious point about this
property of blood serum is that it vanishes in the act of killing the
microbes.       That is to say, a given quantity of blood serum can
 only kill a limited number of microbes.                If the number of microbes
added     to   the   serum     is  beyond     this   limit,   the survivors find the
blood serum to be an excellent food medium, and, after a time,
begin to grow and reproduce.                   This fact, together with the com
paratively low temperature (six hours' heating to 52° or half an
hour's heating           to 55")       at which the bacteria-killing power
vanishes,     has    led  some     of  the    above-quoted authors to ascribe it
to a "sort of ferment-like activity."                    Bnnhner* found that the
bacteria-killing power          vanished    on   dialysing the serum into distilled
water, not, however, if it was dialysed into 75 per cent, sodium
chloride solution which had been brought to the same degree of
alkalinity as the serum.               From this and other facts, Buchner is
brought to believe that the property in question is connected with
                                                                     "
the intactness of " Nageli's hypothetical Micella}                       present in the
                                                            "      "
serum, and is due to a residuum of the                        life     possessed by the
plasma     from    which   it  is derived.      Surely,  an    equally  obvious conclu
sion would be that it was connected with the presence of some
unknown globulin, which, like other globulins, is only soluble in
dilute salt solutions, and, therefore, would be precipitated                         after
dialysing into water, and remain in solution on dialysing into phy
siological salt solution.         The experiments of Lubarscht have shown
that this power practically does not exist in the living blood plasma ;
consequently (on the hypothesis that it is due to some specific
germicide), it must be due to a substance present in blood sernm
absent from the plasma.              Further, the above-mentioned observations
suggest    that   it  is due  to  a  substance of the nature of a ferment.
    Can it be fibrin ferment ? The facts that a bacteria- killing power
is possessed by peptone plasma, but not by magnesium sulphate
plasma, are not in complete disaccord with this suggestion.                             A
   * Loc. cit.
   +
     " Uebar die bakterienvernichtendcn Eijjensehaften des Blutes und ilire
                                   '
Bcziehungen zur Inimunitat,"         Centralblatt fur Bakteriologie und Paraeit-enkunde,'
vol. 6, 1889, p. 528.

 1890.]                 A Bacteiia-killing     Globulin.                          95
watery solution of fibrin ferment loses its power of coagulating
blood when heated to 75°.          When, however, fibrin ferment is dis
solved in serum      it is destroyed, according to Halliburton,* at a tem
perature somewhere between 50° and 60°, which agrees with the tem
perature at which Buchner found the bacteria-killing power of serum
to vanish.     On testing the effect on anthrax bacilli of a solution of
fibrin ferment by the above-described method, I occasionally found a
gradual diminution in the numbers of the bacilli, but, even in the
most successful experiment, it was so small as to come well within
the limits of experimental error.         For instance, in one experiment,
the control plate showed 175 colonies.         A plate culture made half-an-
liour later showed 40 colonies, and the plate culture made one hour
after mixture showed 111 colonies. Thus my results, though of them
selves too few to decide this matter, agree with those of Buchner,
who also found that fibrin ferment has no bacteria-killing power.
    Can the substance in question be some other ferment, absent from
the plasma and present in the serum, possibly owing to the breaking
down of white blood-corpuscles ?
    Halliburton has recently succeeded in extracting from the leuco
cytes of lymphatic glan.ls a globulin which he believes to be fibrin
ferment, or else inseparably connected with it. The power of causing
blood to clot, the temperature at which it loses this property, and
its solubilities in different salt solutions agree perfectly with what is
known of fibrin ferment.          In fact, the only respect in which it
differs from' fibrin ferment is that it always responds to the general
proteid reactions; while Lea and Green have obtained solutions,
apparently of fibrin ferment, which caused blood to clot rapidly, but
which responded not even to the most delicate tests for proteids.
    The following experiments show that it has the power of killing
anthrax bacilli, a power which, as yet, cannot be ascribed to fibrin
ferment.
    Methods Employed. — The lymphatic glands of an animal (cat or
dog) are cutout, finely chopped up, and extracted with T\j th saturated
sodium sulphate for twenty-four hours. The liquid is then filtered, and
precipitated    by the addition of several times its volume of alcohol.
The precipitate consists chiefly of Halliburton's cell globulin-/3, for the
other proteids of lymph cells (cell globulin and nucleo-albumen) are
only extracted in small quantities by the sodium sulphate solution.                 f
The precipitate is kept under alcohol till required.            It settles to the
    * "On the Nature of Fibrin-ferment," 'Journal of Physiology,' vol. 9, 1888,
              "
 p. 229 ; and On the Coagulation of the Blood,"      Roy, Soe. Proo.,' vol. 44, 1888,
 p. 255.
      I
    t learnt this in a verbal communication from Dr. Halliburton.     I  shall in the
 rest of my paper refer to Halliburton's cell globulin-^ as cell globulin, or simply
globulin.

  90                           Mr. E. H. Hankin.                         [May 22,
 bottom of tho vessel,     and, before using it, the superabundant spirit is
 poured off. Tlie bottle is then shaken, and 5 to 10 c.c. of the turbid
 liquid is poured out and filtered.        The precipitate remaining on the
 filter paper is washed with distilled water and then extracted with
 about 15 c.c. of a -r^th saturated sodium sulphate solution.             In other
 cases it was at once extracted with 75 per cent, sodium chloride, or
 with distilled water, the adherent salt enabling the precipitated
 globulin to dissolve.
     Always the distilled water or other solvent employed had been
 previously carefully sterilised.       Only a very small part of the coagu
 lated mass of proteids was redissolved, the solution containing the
 ferment-like cell globulin, while probably the other proteids present
 were permanently coagulated by the action of the alcohol.                  To the
 solution thus obtained a small quantity of anthrax culture is added.
 The culture is generally in bouillon and not more than twenty-four
hours old. Before beiug added it has been violently shaken in order
to separate and break up the filaments.               As soon as the anthrax
bacilli have been added to the globulin solution and shaken so as to
distribute them uniformly through the liquid, a sample of the latter
is taken, and with it a gelatine culture (which serves as control) is
made. This sample is not taken out with a platinum wire, but with
a capillary pipette.      A kink is made in the pipette about 3 inches
from the end, and while removing samples of the liquid care is taken
that it should in each case be filled exactly to the kink. In this way,
as the same pipette is used throughout each experiment, it is easy to
abstract exactly the same quantity of liquid each time.*               As soon as
the pipette has been emptied into the gelatine, the end that has been
used is placed in a test tube plugged with sterilised cotton-wool and
containing sterilised normal salt solution.               This is immediately
boiled for a few minutes.          Since the young culture of anthrax em
ployed contains no spores, the pipette can be thus easily sterilised.
During the experiment the globulin solution is kept at a temperature
of 37°.
    The following table shown some of my experiments                in  a  tabular
form   : —
   * A separate pipette was used to inoculate the globulin solution with anthrax.

1890.] A Bactei ia-killing Globulin. 07
1)8                             Mr. E. H. Hankin.                          [May 22,
    From this table it is obvious that a decrease took place in the
number of living bacilli present in the samples that were successively
taken from the globulin solution.             That is to say, the bacilli were
gradually     killed until   in  some   experiments (as shown by the plate
cultures remaining sterile) no survivors were left. In these cases
the gelatine was, after a few days, inoculated with anthrax, when it
always produced a copious growth, showing that the result was in no
way due to any imperfection in the gelatine employed.                      That the
destruction     was not due to sodium sulphate or other salts present is
shown by Experiment VII, for here the liquid is seen to lose its
bacteria-killing power by being simply boiled, a treatment capable of
destroying the globulin but not the salts.            In other cases the globulin
solution was boiled after the plate cultures had been inoculated from
it. Then it was re-inoculated with anthrax with or without addition
of a small quantity of bouillon, and always produced a typical growth.
 In Experiment VII, after two days, the test tubes containing the
 solutions B and C were found to contain anthrax growths, the one in
 0 being somewhat scanty. Solution A, however, had remained
 sterile, all the bacilli in it having been killed.            Then, without pre
vious boiling or any other treatment, it was inoculated with anthrax
spores, and in twenty-four hours had produced a copious growth.
 This proves conclusively that the destruction of bacilli that had taken
 place was due to a similar cause to that which is operative in the
 analogous experiments with blood serum. For Lubarsch* has pointed
 out that, although the serum is capable of killing the bacilli added to
it, the spores (of anthrax) not only are unharmed by it, but imme
 diately begin to develop, producing a crop of bacilli, which seem to
 have acquired tolerance against the bacteria-killing power of the
 medium- It is interesting to notice that, as shown in Experiment VII,
 the cell globulin obtained from the spleen was more energetic in
 killing bacteria than that derived frqm lymphatic glands. In this
 experiment the spleen and the lymphatic glands were taken from the
 same dog, left under alcohol for the same time (twenty-four hours),
 and otherwise subjected to exactly similar treatment.                   In Experi
 ment V the globulin was derived from the lymphatic glands and
 spleen of a cat, which were chopped up and extracted together.
 Here the bacteria-killing action was more energetic than in the pre
 vious experiments.         I generally noticed that the bacteria-killing
 power is less, the longer the globulin is kept under alcohol, which
 agrees with Halliburton's assertion,! that by very prolonged action of
 alcohol the cell globulin is rendered permanently insoluble, as is the
 case with other proteids.
    * hoc. cit.
    t " On the Nature of the Fibrin Ferment,"  '
                                                 Proceedings of Physiological Society,'
 188S (in 'Journal of Physiology,' rol. 9).

 1890.]                   A Bacteria-killing       Globulin,                       99
    I have as yet made no systematic observations on the degenerative
appearances that anthrax bacilli may show when subjected to the
action of cell globulin.       On one occasion, however,        I   found that the
bacilli, twenty-four hours after being added to a dilute cell globulin
solution, had broken up into extremely short segments.                 Czaplewski*
found a similar change to occur as a stage in the degeneration of
virulent anthrax bacilli when injected into pigeons, which were
naturally immune against this disease, and Gamaleiaf met with a like
mode of degeneration during the
                                           " vaccinal " fever which
                                                                         follows the
inoculation of attenuated anthrax into rabbits or sheep.
    My experiments on the effects of injoctions of cell globulin into
animals before or after anthrax infection in modifying the course of
the disease, though entirely of a preliminary nature, are of some
interest.      The cell globulin was not prepared by the above-described
method, but the sodium sulphate extract was dinlysed to remove the
excess of the salt, and heated to 50° or 51° for half-an-hour to
coagulate any traces of cell globulin-* or nucleo-albumen that might be
present.   J    A few cubic centimeters of a solution thus prepared were
injected into the lateral ear vein of a rabbit, which, either at the
same time or on the day before, had been inoculated with anthrax.
 The results were extremely variable, and showed no relation to the
 quantity of cell globulin employed.            In some cases no effect was pro
 duced, the animal dying in the same time as, or even before, the
 control. § In other cases the animal lived two or three days longer,
 and showed slight diarrhoea.           In such cases the spleen was nearly
 always greatly enlarged.         The bacilli were generally in long chains
 (consisting    of  occasionally twenty or thirty joints), as is usually the
 case after inoculation with attenuated anthrax.             Sometimes, however,
 they appeared      to be exceptionally     short.    Further,  a large number of
 phagocytes (macrophages), containing bacilli in different stages of
 degeneration, could be seen.          In the control animal phagocytes con
 taining bacilli   could   but rarely be found.        Fig. 1 shows the tempera
 ture chart of three rabbits, of which two (A and B) received a
 succession of doses of cell globulin. The three rabbits were very
 young, and did not weigh more than 400 grams each ; C was the
 control, and died in thirty-six hours.           A and B showed well-marked
 diarrhoea forty-eight hours after          inoculation,   and died after ninety-
    • " TJeber  die Immunitat   der Tauben     gegen  Milzbrand,"  '
                                                                     Kdnigsberg Diss.
 Inaug.,' 1889.
    t " Sur la Destruction des Microbes dans les Corps des Animaux fftricitants,"
 '
   Annales de llnstitut Pasteur,' 1889, p. 229.
    X "Beport of a Committee consisting of Professors Schafer (secretary), Foster, and
 Lankester, and Dr. W. B. Halliburton, appointed for the purpose of investigating
 the physiology of the lymphatic system" (' Brit. Assoc. Rep.,' 1888, p. 363).
    § In these experiments, the control rabbit nearly always died within thirty-six
 hours.                                 .

100                     A Bat teria-killing Globulin.              [May 22,
                                     Fig. 1.
three and ninety-nine hours respectively.         The spleen of A contained
rather few bacilli, either isolated or arranged in chains, which were
never longer than are occasionally met with in control rabbits after
simple inoculation with anthrax.         In the lymph gland near the seat
of inoculation, however, they were often found in much longer chains,
or arranged in thick clusters.          Of these chains, individual joints
often were swollen up or refused to take the stain.           The bacilli in
B exhibited precisely similar appearances, but the chains of bacilli
were somewhat longer, occasionally consisting of twenty-seven or
twenty-eight joints.
   In another series of experiments the rabbits were infected by intra
venous injection of the blood of a rabbit dead of virulent anthrax and
diluted with normal salt solution.          Before or after this treatment,
5 — 10 c.c.  of cell globulin solution were injected intravenously.    After
infection   in  this way  the  control  rabbit   died in twelve to  eighteen
hours.    The rabbits treated with the globulin occasionally lived for a
few hours     longer, more often died at about the same time as the
control.    The chains of bacilli in the spleen sometimes exhibited a

                                       Presents.                                  101
curious appearance.         They were surrounded by a transparent sheatb,
 which was thickened at each junction between each two neighbouring
bacilli.     The chain of bacilli could      be compared to a bamboo        in which
the nodes are swollen to nearly twice the diameter               of the rest of the
Btick.     A  precisely similar appearance has been described and figured
by Petruschky.*         He found that anthrax bacilli undergo this change,
which he regards as degenerative, when placed under the skin of
frogs for several hours.           Gamaleiaf describes a somewhat similar
condition as occasionally happening to anthrax vaccina in different
                                                   " vaccinal fever."
organs of sheep and rabbits during the
    The above-described experiments would seem to lead to the follow
ing conclusions : — -
    1.  That Halliburton's       cell globulin-/?     possesses  a  bacteria-killing
          power.
    2.  That this power appears to distinguish it from fibrin ferment.
    3.  That this bacteria-killing power is of the same nature as that
          possessed by blood serum, as described by Buchner, Nissen,
          and Nuttall.
    4.  That this power of the serum is probably due to the same or
          some allied substance.
    5.  That, inasmuch as it is possible to obtain from cells that are, or
          can become, phagocytes a substance having bacteria-killing
          powers, we may suppose that phagocytes can not only kill
          microbes that they have ingested, but also do this, or tend to
          do this, by breaking down and liberating their contents.
    The Society adjourned over the Whitsuntide Recess                  to Thursday,
June 5th.
                              Presents, May 22, 1890.
 Transactions.
    Baltimore: — Johns Hopkins University.                Studies   (Historical and
           Political Science).      Eighth Series.       No. 4.    8vo.    Baltimore
           1890.                                                   The University.
    Bordeaux     : — Society de Medecine         et de Chirnrgte. Memoires et
           Bulletins.    1889.    Fasc. 1-2.      8vo.    Bordeaux.
                                                                       The Society.
        Soci^te    des   Sciences    Physiques       et  Natnrelles.      Memoires.
           Ser. 3.     Tome    IV.    Tome     V.     Cahier  1.    8vo.   Bordeaux
    •  " Die                                                  den Milzbrandbacillut,"
             Kinwirkungen des lebenden Froschkflrpers auf
 '
   ZeiUchrift fur Hygiene,' toI. 7, 1889, p. 75.
    t Loc. cit.

102                                  Present*.                           [May 22,
Transactions    (continued').
        1889  ;   Observations       Plnviométriques et Thermomélriques
        faites dans le Département de la Gironde de Juin, 1887, à
        Mai, 1888. 8vo. Bordeaux 1888.                               The Society.
   Frankfort-on-Main : — Senckenbergische             Naturforschende Gesell-
        schaft. Abhandlungen.           Bd. XVI. Heftl. 4to. Frankfurt
        1890.                                                        The Society.
             —
   Geneva: Société          do      Physique       et   d'Histoire      Naturelle.
        Mémoires.       Tome XXX." Partie 2. 4to.              Gendre 1889-90.
                                                                     The Society.
              —
   Haarlem : Musée Teyler. Archives.                Sér. 2. Vol. III.      Faac. 4.
        8vo. Haarlem 1890; Catalogue de la Bibliothèque. Vol. II.
        Livr. 1-3. 8vo. Harlem 1889-90.                             The Museum.
   Kew : — Royal Gardens.           Bulletin of Miscellaneous Information.
        No. 41.    8vo.   London 1890.                              The Director.
   London : — Aristotelian Society.           Proceedings.      Vol. I. No. 8.
        Part 1. 8vo. London 1890.               Messrs. Williams and Norgate.
     Institution of Civil Engineers.                Minutes of Proceedings.
        Vol. XCIX. 8vo. London 1890.                             The Institution .
     Laboratory Club.            Transactions.      Vol. III.      No. 5.     8vo.
        London 1890.                                                    The Club.
     University* of London.            Calendar.      1890-91.     8vo.    London
        1890.                                                    The University.
     Zoological Society. Report of the Council. 1889. 8vo. London
       1890.                                                         The Society.
   Lyons:   — Société   d'Anthropologie.        Bulletin.    1889.   No. 3. 8vo.
        Lyons 1890.                                                  The Society.
   Newcastle-upon-Tyne        : — North    of   England    Institute   of Mining
        and Mechanical Engineers. Transactions. Vol. XXXVIII.
        Part 5. 8vo. Newcastle 1890.                               The Institute.
           —
   Paris: École Polytechnique. Journal. Cahier 59. 4to. Parts
        1889.                                                         The School.
     Muséum      d'Histoire     Naturelle.      Nouvelles   Archives.      Sér. 2.
        Tome X. Fasc. 2. Sér. 3. Tome I. Fasc. 1. 4to. Part*
       1888-89.                                                     The Museum.
     Société Géologique de France.            Bulletin.   Sér. 3. Tome XVII.
        No. 9. 8vo. Paris 1888-89.                                   The Society.
                 —
   Stockholm : Kongl. Vetenskaps-Akademie. Ofversigt. Ârg. 47.
       No. 2. 8vo. Stockholm 1890.                                 The Academy.
               —
   Toulouse : Académie des          Sciences,   Inscriptions et Belles- Lettres.
        Mémoires.      Sér. 9.    Tome    I.   8vo.   Toulouse 1889.
                                                                   The Academy.
   Vienna: — K.K.Geogrnphische           Gesellschaft.    Mittheilungen. 1889.
        8vo.     Wien.                                               The Society.

  1890.]                           Presents.                                  103
 Journals.
    American Journal of Philology.       Vol.X.       No. 4.   8vo.    Baltimore
          1889.                                                      The Editor.
     Annates des Mines.      Ser. 8.    Tome     XVI. Livr.     6.    8vo.   Paris
          1889.                                        Ecole  des Mines, Paris.
    Asclepiad (The)     Vol.  VII.    No.  25.   8vo.    Loudon 1890.
                                                       Dr. Richardson, F.R.S.
    Galilee (Lc)    Annee 2.    Nos. 3-4.      8vo.    Paris  1890.
                                                                   The Editors.
    Horological Journal (The)       Nos. 380-381.       8vo.   London 1890.
                                               British Horological Institute.
    Medico-Legal    Journal (The)      Vol. VII. No. 3. 8vo. New York
          1889.                          Medico-Legal Society, New York.
    Naturalist (The)    Nos. 177-178.       8vo.    London 1890.
                                                                    The Editors.
    Nature Notes.     Nos. 3-4. 8vo. London 1890.                  The Editors.
    Revista do Observatorio.         Anno 5.      Nos. 2-3. 8vo.           Bio de
         Janeiro 1890.                    The Observatory,      Rio   de Janeiro.
    Revue Generale des Sciences.      Annee 1. No. 3. 8vo.           Paris 1890.
                                                                   The Editors.
    Revue Medico-Pharmaceutique.          Annee 3. No. 3. 8vo. Constan
         tinople 1890.                                               The Editor.
    Stazioni     Sperimentali Agrarie Italiane (Le)               Vol. XVII I.
        Fasc. 2-3. 8vo. Asti 1890.
                             R. Stazione Enologica Sperimentale di Asti.
    Technology Quarterly.      Vol. III. No. 1. 8vo. Boston. 1890.
                                   Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
    Victorian Tear-Book.      1888-89.     Vol. I. 8vo. Melbourne 1889".
                                               The Government of Victoria.
    Zeitschrift fur Naturwissenschaften.         ,1888.      Heft 5-6. 1889.
         Heft 1-6. 8vo. Halle.
                                   Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein, Halle.
Two Bronze Medallion Portraits of Sir Christopher Wren and Daniel
      Wray, Fellows of the Royal Society.             Mr. Evans, Treas. R.S.
   VOL. XLVIII.                                                          I

 104                       Election of Felloic*.                 [June  5,
                               June 5, 1890.
   The Annual Meeting for the Election of Fellows was held this day.
     Sir G. GABRIEL STOKES, Bart., President, in the Chair.
   The Statutes relating to the election of Fellows having been read,
 General Clerk and Dr. Gladstone were, with the consent of the
 Society, nominated Scrutators to assist the Secretaries in examining
the lists.
   The votes of the Fellows present were then collected, and the fol
lowing candidates were declared duly elected into the Society : —
Baker, Sir Benjamin, M.Inst.C.E.       Perkin, Professor William Henry,
Bosanqnet, Robert Holford Mac-           jun., F.C.S.
   dowall, M.A.                        Pickering,     Professor   Spencer
Burbury, Samuel Hawkesley, M.A.          Umfreville, M.A.
Gardiner, Walter, MA.                  Roberts, Isaac,  F.R.A.S.
Kerr, John, LL.D.                      Sharp, David,   M.B.
Lea, Arthur Sheridan, U.Sc.            Teall, J. J. Harris, M.A.
MacMahon,      Percy    Alexander,     Thorne, Richard Thome, M.B.
   Major R.A.                          Weldon, Walter Frank Raphael,
Norman, Rev. Alfred Merle, M.A.          M.A.
   Thanks were given to the Scrutators.
                              June  5, 1890.
    Sir G. GABRIEL STOKES, Bart., President, in the Chair.
   The Presents received were laid on the table, and thanks ordered
for them.
   The following Papers were read : —

 1S90.]         Force of Gravity    at Keic and Greenwich.             105
 I. "Account of recent Pendulum Operations for determining
      the relative Force of Gravity at the Kew aud the Green
      wich Observatories."        By General Walker, C.B., F.R.S.,
      LL.D.      Received   April  15, 1890.
                                 (Abstract.)
   It is well known that a series of pendulum observations was
carried on in India, during tbe years 18<3o to 1873, with two invari
able pendulums, the property of the Royal Society.         The Observatory
of the Royal Society at Kew was chosen as the base-station of the
operations, and the pendulums were swung there before being sent
out to   India, and again on their return from India.       With a view to
connecting the observations     with  those which had   already been taken
with other pendulums in other parts of the world, it was intended, on
the return of the pendulums from India, to swing them at the Royal
Observatory at Greenwich, which was a well established pendulum
station, observed at by General Sir Edward Sabine, the Russian
Admiral Liitke, and others. But when the time arrived for making the
observations at the Greenwich Observatory, such extensive prepara
tions were being made there for the equipment of expeditions for the
observation of the approaching transit of Venus that no room was
available for the pendulum operations.       It was, therefore, decided to
make the connexion with Kew by swinging at Kew Kater's convertible
pendulum,      for determining    the absolute length of the seconds
pendulum, which had been swung 40 years previously at Greenwich by
General Sabine.      This being done, the length of the seconds pendu
lum at Kew was foand to be 0 0027 of an inch greater than the
length which had been previously determined at Greenwich, and con
sequently that the daily vibration number was three vibrations
greater at Kew than at Greenwich.           The difference, however, was
far too large to be admissible, as the observatories are nearly in the
same   latitude, and differ very slightly in height.
   In 1881    Colonel Herschel, R.E., was deputed by the Secretary of
State for India to take pendulum observations at the two observa
tories, and at the old pendulum station in London, and also at some
stations in America, with a view to improving and strengthening the
connexion between the observations in India and those in other parts
of the world. On completing bis work in America, he handed over
the three pendulums which he had employed to officers of the United
 States Coast and Geodetic Survey, by whom they were taken round
the world and swung at Auckland, Sydney, Singapore, Tokio, San
 Francisco, and finally at Colonel Herschel's         terminal station at
 Washington.

106                              Mr. T. Andrews.                     [June  5,
   But when the observations came to be finally reduced, it was fonnd
that the difference between Colonel Herschel's results at Kew and
Greenwich,      as shown     independently by the three pendulums, had an
extreme range of about seven vibralions in the daily vibration
number.      The cause of these differences was mysterious and inex
plicable, and there was no alternative but to swing the pendulums a
second time at the two observatories.
    The revisionary work was undertaken by the observatory staff at
each place,    in such intervals of leisure as they could obtain from their
regular operations.         The final results, by the three pendulums, make
the vibration number at Kew in excess of that at Greenwich by 1'5G,
l-50, and 0'59, giving an average excess of 1"22.
    The correction to this quantity for the excess of height of the
Greenwich over the Kew Observatory is — 0"58. Thus, the revisionary
operations, reduced to the mean sea-level, make the excess of Kew
over Greenwich = 0-64 of a vibration, which may be accepted as
very fairly probable.
 II. "  Observations on Pure Ice."— Part             II. By  Thos. Andrews,
               F.R.S., M.Inst.C.E.        Received May 1,     18SJ0.
                                The Plasticity of Ice.
                    '
    In a paper,       Roy. Soc. Proe.,' vol. 40, 1886, p. 544, 1 recorded the
result of    "  Observations on Pure Ice and Snow," and having sub
sequently had occasion to use large quantities of low temperature
freezing mixtures in the prosecution of other investigations, it seemed
desirable to take advantage of the opportunity, and to further utilise
 the freezing mixtures in making collaterally the following additional
experiments bearing on some of the plastic or viscous properties of
 ice at various temperatures.        Messrs. J. C. McConnel and D. A. Kidd,
in their valuable and interesting paper on "The Plasticity of Glacier
                   "
 and other Ice        (' Roy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 44, 1888, p. 331), remark that
 " the variation of the plasticity of ice with the temperature is of great
 interest both for the theory of glaciers and for the explanation of the
 plasticity itself."      I  hope, therefore, that the experiments now re
 corded may assist in affording some information in connexion with
 this subject. An acquaintance with the causes of the flow of glaciers
 can scarcely be complete without some accurate experimental know
 ledge of the plasticity of ice at various temperatures, and it was
 partly with this object that the following experiments were com
 menced.     The experiments form a continuation of those contained in
 my former paper. The arrangement of apparatus is described below,
 and illustrated by the accompanying sketch, fig. 1.

 1890.]                 Observations on  Pure Ice.                   107
   The ice for the pure ice experiments was frozen from distilled water
contained in a sheet-iron vessel. The inner tank was surrounded
both at the sides and bottom by an outer jacket of iron, which was
provided with holes at the bottom for the waste liquids to escape.
The coolest freezing mixture used, No. 1, consisting of three parts
by weight of crystallised calcium chloride and two parts by weight of
snow, was placed in the compartment A, which yielded a constant
temperature of — 3o° P. There was also provided a larger outer com
partment B, filled with the freezing mixture No. 2, of snow and
ordinary salt, giving a steady temperature of 0° F., the latter mixture,
No 2, completely enclosing the inner and coolest freezing preparation,
No. 1.    Good results were obtained by using this arrangement.
Previous to mixing, large quantities of the snow and calcium chloride
crystals were stored and maintained separately at a temperature of
0C F. in other vessels, and the respective  freezing mixtures, No. 1 in
compartment    A, and  No.  2 in  compartment B, surrounding the ice
tank were constantly renewed during the experiments from these
cold stores. Thermometers were inserted in the mixtures and also in
the ice during the experiments.     The preceding description refers to
the maintenance of the ice block at the lower temperature of — 35° F.
for the observations required at that temperature.
   For the observations at 0° F. the ice block was surrounded only by
the freezing mixture of snow and salt placed for these experiments
 in compartment A, and the ice block was encircled by snow only for

 108                         Mr. T. Andrews.                     [June  5,
 the experiments at 32° F.      On repeating the experiments in every
 instance, the water for the ice block was first frozen by the applica
 tion of a temperature of 0° F., which was afterwards reduced to
 — 35° F. In making the observations, the extent of the penetration
of the steel rod at the latter low temperature was first taken; the ice
 was then allowed gradually to acquire throughout a temperature of
0° F., and its penetrability ascertained ; the ice block was afterwards
allowed to reach the temperature of 28° and 32° F., and the final
measurements obtained.        The results recorded are the average of
numerous measurements taken directly at different places on the ice
block a sufficient distance apart, the indentation caused by the
previous penetration of the rod being filled with water, which rapidly
froze up. The variation in penetrability at different places on the
ice block when measurements were taken        at the same temperature
was not great.
    The polished steel rod used for ascertaining the penetrability was
16 inches long and 0292 inch diameter; its extremity was a flat disk,
so as to avoid any liability of shearing action.     The rod was main
tained in an upright position by a suitable arrangement of guides,
and error arising from its conductivity was obviated by surrounding
it throughout its length with fine sawdust contained in a loosely
fitting bag which surrounded it. The weight, of 181£ lb. (inclusive
of the weight of the platform and guides), was placed on a sliding
wood platform working in a frame, the whole weight resting during
experimentation on the top of the steel rod (see fig. 1).
    Repeated observations were made in the above manner with the
results recorded on Diagram I.
    I also made a large number of experiments on the plasticity of
natural lake or pond ice, which were conducted in a somewhat similai
manner ; the results showed a greater absence of uniformity in the
amount of penetration when compared with results at a similar tem
perature obtained from the specially prepared pure ice blocks.        The
observations were taken on the surface of the ice of a large artificial
lake or dam, being a storage reservoir for Wortley Iron Works, about
4 acres in extent, the depth varying from about 8 to 10 feet, the thick
ness of the ice being given on Diagram II.       The water of this pond
is still, no current of water passing through it ; it is therefore practi
cally a small lake. The observations were taken after sunset, and
mostly throughout the long cold nights, so as to avoid, as far as
 possible, any influence of the sun on the surface of the pond ice. A
number of measurements were taken adjacently in one locality of the
pond, the apparatus being removed to another part for another set of
observations, and so on, till the completion of the results. The obser
vations    were  taken at various   periods extending   over some time.
Thermometers      were inserted  in the ice, and the atmospheric     teni

1890.]                      Observations on      Pure Ice.                             105>
perature was also regularly taken ; the latter corresponded with the
temperature of the ice. The results are given on Diagram TI. In
connexion with the influence of the composition of water on the
plasticity of the ice frozen therefrom, it may be desirable to give an
analysis of the water supplying the pond, which was as under: —
                          Table I. — Analyses of Water.
                       Results    in Grains per Gallon.
                      Total          Inorganic           Loss on         Total sulphates
                     residue.          matter.           ignition.           as (S03).
  Dry seasons. . .    13-08            11-70               3-58                3-29
  Rainy seasons   .   11 -31             7 56              3-75                2-P3
               Analysis of sample of water, during a very dry        se uon.
                              Results in grains per gallon.
            Deposit on boiling
            Iron (Fe)                              . . .   0-28
                                                   . ..    3-29
            Magnesium (Mg).
            (so4)
                                                   . . .
                                                   . ,.
                                                           0-69
                                                           2-88    -  S03 2-4
                                                           8-88
                         Total inorganic matters  .  ..    8 40
    The above analyses of the water during dry seasons.are the average;
 of nine different analyses at periods extending over six years, and the
 analyses of the water during rainy seasons are the average of ten
 analyses at various periods during six years.
    The reaction of the water with litmus was slightly acid, and sul
 phates were generally preset; t in quantity.
    A number of experiments were made to ascertain whether any por
 tion of the saline constituents of the pond water was taken up into
 the ice during crystallisation.          Contrary to expectation, and instead
 of the ice being found perfectly pure and free from saline matters, it
 was noticed that the composition of the natural ice was materially
 affected by the presence of a proportion of the salts of the water from
 which the ice was crystallised.          Roughly speaking, the proportion of
 inorganic matter found in the melted ice would be about 10 per cent,
 of the total inorganic salts contained in the pond water from which
  it was frozen ; it was also observed that there was a great propor

   110                                  Mr. T. Andrews.                             [June   5,
   tionate preponderance of organic matter in the ice compared with the
  water.         The experiments were made as follows : — Portions of the ice
   were taken from numerous places on the pond, and very thoroughly
   washed with distilled water, the ice was then melted in large glass
  beakers, and the melted ice was found to be perfectly clear and
  translucent, there being no deposit after the water had stood for a
  considerable time.            The melted ice, in quantities of half a gallon, was
  evaporated         to   dryness   in a platinum basin, the residue dried at 212°
  and weighed, being subsequently ignited and again re-weighed.                           The
  results are given on Table II.                    The results obtained confirm the
  observations made by Buchanan on the composition of ice in Arctic
  seas  ;    see remarks       hereon towards the close of this Memoir.
                             Table   II. — Analyses      of Pond Ice.
                   Results in Grains per Gallon of the Melted Ice.
                                                     Examination of the inorganic matters.
     Experi         Total     Inorganic  Loss on
                                                      Result in grains per gallon of melted
    ment No.       residue.    matter.   ignition.
                                                                       ice.
          1          1-70       0 92       0-78
         2           1 -84      1 10       0-74      Iron (Fe)           0 -110
         3           1-86       o-oo       0 96      Calcium (Ca). . .   0 -207
         4           1-80       0 94       0-86      Magnesium (Mg)      0 -0615
         5           1--J2      084        0 58
                                                                                            I
         6           147        0 91       0 56
                                                                                            i
    Average.    .    1-68       0-93       075       Chlorides were also present.
                                                                                            ¦
     The penetration of the steel rod into pure ice at constant tempera
 ture    of — 35° F. is shown on Diagram                    I by curve I ; at 0° F. by
 curve      II ; at 28° F. by curve        III  ;  and  at  32° F. by curve IV.
     In   tho experiment, curve II, the needle was allowed to remain on
 the ice for a total period of 42 hours, the penetration at 18 hours
 from commencement was O906 inch, at 30 hours P031 inch, and at
42 honrs fiom commencement 1-187 inch.
     The penetration of the steel rod into pond ice at 28° F. is shown on
Diagram         II  by curve I, and at 32° F. by curve II.
     The pond ice, curve I, was 6£ inches thick, and curve II, 5£ inches
thick.

185)0.]                      Observations on Pure Ice.                           Ill
Diagram   I. — Plasticity  of Pure lee, as shown by penetration of steel rod therein,
                                lit temperut ures stated.
                                            5      6
                                        tnt in Hours
Diagram I  I. — Plasticity   of Pond lee, os shown by penetration       of steel  rod
                            therein, at temperatures stated.
                                         i     2       3
                              Time from
                             rommencpment         in Hours

112                             Mr.   T. Andrews.                           [June    5,
                                      Table   III.
   Penetrability of steel rod into pure ice. Temperature of ice rising gradually
                                   from 0° to 32° F.
   Time from commence           Temperature of ice in
                                                           Penetration of steel rod.
             ment.                degrees Fahrenheit.
                                                      •
                                                                    inches.
           3   hours.                    10 00                       0-458
            4   I)                       12-33                       0-604
            0   )>                       14- 00                      0-781
            6    If                      17 33                       0-948
            7    >J                      19 00                       1125
            s   »)                       20 00                       1-271
            ;i   1»                      20-67                       1-427
          10     II                      21-33                       1-604
          n      ti                      22 00                       1-750
          12    *t                       22-67                       1 9S7
          18     it                      23-33                       2-104
          It     1)                      24-83                       2-250
          15     II                      24-67                       2-448
          it;    tt                      26-38                       2-635
          17     ti                      25-67                       2-777
          is     »                       26 33                       2-888
          20                             26-67                       3  124
          21     <>                      27  33                      3-339
          22     ri                      27  67                      3-502
          23     ji                      28  00                      4-021
          26     ii                      28  33                      4-423
          27      n                      29  00                      4-806
          29     H                       29-67                       5-174
          31                             30 00                       5-583
          34     i1                      3183      ,                 6-375
          35                             31  (57                     6 661
          38     •<                      31-67                       7-155
          39     ii                      31 -07                      7-483
          51      •j                     32 -00                      8-625
          89      ii                     32 00                      10 -125
   The above results are the average of three sets of observations
made on    a cylinder of pure ice 2 feet         If  inches long, 2 feet    If inches
diameter, weighing 470 lbs.

 1890.]                     Observations on    Pure Ice.                         113
                                    Table   IV.
             Penetration of steel rod into pure ice, the ice gradually rising in
                temperature   from 2u° to 32 F., and then remaining at 32° F.,
                and subsequently gradually softening.
     Time
     from     Experiment No.    1.    Experiment No. 2.       Experiment No. 3.
     com
   mence
    ment.                Penetra                 Penetra                 Penetra
            Tenipcra-                Tempera-                Tcmpera-
                          tion of                 tion of                  tion of
            of ice in                of ice in               of ice in
                         steel rod               steel rod                steel rod
             degrees                  degrees                 degrees
                         No. 1 in                No. 2 in                 No. 3 in
              Fahr.                    Fahr.                   Fahr.
                          inches.                 inches.                  inches.
   hrs. m.
          0     26         o-ooo
          5    26          2-750
         15    26          3-000
         30     26         3-250
         45     27         3-500
      1   0     28         3-750
      2   0     28         4-125
      3   0     28         4 "375
      1   0     28         4 -625
      H   0     28         5-375
    13   30     28         6-502
 '
    19    0     28         7-750
    4*5  20                              32        o-ooo
    46   25                              32        5-000
   4f>   40                              32        5-250
   46    55                              32        5 -562
   47    10                              32        5 -875
   47    25                              32        6-062
   47    40                              32        6 187
   48    40                              32        6-562
    48   45                                                      32         0-000
   48    50                                                      32         5 *375
    4S   55                                                      32         6-562
   41'    5                                                      32         7-000
    49   10                                                      32         8-500
    49   15                                                      32         9-500
   The above observations were made on a cylinder of pure ice 2 feet
1^ inches long,
                   2 feet 1J inches diameter, and weighing 470 lbs.
   In experiment No. 2, the ice cylinder had remained at a tempera
ture of from 26° to 28° F. for 46 hours 20 minutes previous to com
mencing the experiment with steel rod No. 2.
   In experiment No. 3, the ice cylinder had remained at a tempera-
tuure of 32° F. for 2^ hours previous to commencing the experiment
with steel rod No. 3.
   These experiments show that the plasticity of the ice was very

 114                          Mr. T. Andrews.                      [June   5,
 rapidly and considerably increased after reaching, and whilst it after
 wards remained at, a temperature of 32° F.
                               General Remarks.
   1st. Referring to the resnlts of Diagram I, and taking the relative
 penetration of the steel rod at the respective temperatures ns an in
dication of the plasticity of the ice, it will be noticed that there was
a considerable    reduction of plasticity as the temperature lowered.
 Regarding as a gnidc the total depth penetrated by the steel rod,
during equal and comparative        periods of time (as, for instance, the
resnlts at 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, &c., hours, Diagram I, curves 1, 2, 3), into
ice at different temperatures, these comparative experiments show,
in a majority of instances, that, if the plasticity of the ice at — 35° F.
be called one,  at 0° F. it would be about twice as much, and at 28° F.
 the plasticity would be about four times as great as at 0° F., or eight
times as much as at — 35° F. When the ice was maintained at a
temperature of 32° F., it will be seen that the plasticity very con
siderably increased, this being probably owing to the reduced
cohesion at this temperature between the faces of the ice crystals
forming the mass.
   2nd. It will be further noticed that the plasticity was greater
during the gradual molecular changes occurring in course of the
slow rising of temperature from 0° F. to 32° F., see results on Table
III, than when the ice was maintained at even temperatures, as in
the experiments on Diagram I.
   3rd. Reverting to the observations on Table IV, if the time required
for the steel rod to penetrate a certain depth, say, 6^ inches, into the
ice under conditions of experiments 1, 2, and 3, Table IV, be taken as
an indication of the relative plasticity of the ice under conditions of
these experiments, it will be seen that the plasticity was roughly
about 579 per cent, greater in No. 2 than No. 1, and 1400 per cent,
greater in No. 3 than in No. 2, these results showing proportion
ately the rapid manner in which the mass of ice was becoming
internally plastic, although retaining an outward apparent rigidity.
The Rev. Coutts Trotter, in his paper ('Roy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 38,
1885, p. 92), states that
                             " the ' viscosity ' of ice probably diminishes
very rapidly with the temperature," and it appears probable from the
experiments of M. Person (' Comptes Rendus,' vol. 30, 1850, pp.
526 — 528) that — 2° C. is the temperature          at which ice begins to
soften.    The Rev. C. Trotter, after summarising the experimental
evidence, also arrives at the conclusion that the general interior and
bottom portions of a glacier, near the surface of the earth, are of a
constant temperature of about 0°      C,  and my experiments    recorded on
 Diagrams   I and  II and Tables    III  and IV demonstrate     the greater

  1890.]                   Observations on   Pure   Tee.                   115
 plasticity of ice, in the mass, at similar temperatures.          Mr. Trotter
further remarks that "the supposition that, while ice at 0° C. is sensibly
viscous, the viscosity diminishes rapidly with the temperature is in
complete accordance with the facts of the changes which take place
in a glacier during the winter."       The comparatively great contracti-
bility in ice observed at considerably reduced temperatures, see my
paper on "Observations on Pure Ice and Snow" (' Roy. Soc. Proc.,'
vol. 40, 1886, p. 544), accounts for the great reduction in its plastic
properties. This is in full accord with the practical cessation of
motion in glaciers during the cold of winter. 1 believe that the
plastic properties of ice in the mass are variable, and are also, to
some extent, influenced by the rapidity or otherwise of its crystal
lisation.     Thus, a mass of water rapidly frozen at an intensely low
temperature would, no doubt, crystallise into a larger number of
smaller crystals than those which would result from a more slow
solidification of the mass of water at a comparatively higher tempera
ture of freezing.
   4th. It will be noticed, on comparing the results of Diagrams I and
II, that the plasticity of the naturally frozen pond ice was manifestly
greater than that of the artificially prepared pure ice, and the
difl'crence in results may, to a certain extent, probably be accounted
for by difference of composition of the respective frozen waters and
ice (the block ice being frozen from pure distilled water, the com-
jiosition of the pond water and ice frozen therefrom being given on
Tables    I and II) ; I think, also, the difference was, to some extent,
owing to the direction from which the pond ice was frozen, viz., from
the surface only.        Further, this comparative difference in the
behaviour of the pond ice was doubtless owing to a portion of the
saline constituents of the water interspersing,          during congelation,
between     the faces of  the  individual  crystals   of ice, thereby tending
to reduce the cohesion of the mass as a whole and increasing its
plasticity. Mr. J. Y. Buchanan, F.R.S., has shown that in Arctic ice,
contrary to expectation, the whole of the salts do uot separate from
sea- water ice during congelation, but that they remain interspersed
amongst the interstices of the crystalline mass (" Ice and Brine,"
'
  Edinburgh Roy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 14, 1888, p. 129). My experiments
<>n Table II also show that the composition of pond or natural river
ice is affected in a similar manner, and afford confirmation           of the
views held by Buchanan on the composition of sea-water ice in Arctic
regions.     The fact of the pond ice having been slowly crystallised
would further tend to modify its physical properties, compared with
ice rapidly crystallised by an intensely          low temperature, simul
taneously acting only      from   the bottom   and   sides of the mould or
tank.     Measurements of the expansibility of ice may also be affected
accordingly as such measurements are taken either longitudinally or

  116                          Mr.  T. Andrews.                   [June     5,
  transversely to the line of the cold crystallising force, and from my
 former experiments in this direction (' Roy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 40, 18S6,
 p. 544),    I  think there appear substantial indications that ice may
 expand unequally in different directions.         Messrs. McConnel and
 Kidd have shown, in their experiments with glacier ice, that
 "
    ordinary ice, consisting of an irregular aggregation of crystals,
 exhibits plasticity, both under pressure and under tension at tem
 peratures far below the freezing point, down to — 9° at least, and
 probably much lower." The experiments recorded on Diagram I
 now practically demonstrate the latter supposition, and I found the
 plasticity at the lower temperature to be very considerably reduced.
 Mr. J. Y. Buchanan, F.R.S., in his paper on " Ice and Brine "
 ('Edinburgh Roy. Soe. Proc.,' vol. 14, 1888, p. 129), has expressed
 notions of the plasticity and flow of glacier ice which tend to confirm
 the views of Messrs. McConnel and Kidd on this subject.            In this
 direction the experiments on pure ice, Diagram I, compared with
 those on pond ice, Diagram II, have shown that ice frozen from
 water containing saline constituents is more plastic than the ice
frozen from pure distilled water.
     I hope that the experiments of this memoir may help to afford
 information in connexion with the interesting subject of the plasticity
of ice.
                                   Appendix.
    Attention has very recently been drawn to the manner in which
lake ice has a tendency to crystallise, in a series of interesting
letters published in 'Nature,' 1889, by Mr. Thomas H. Holland,
Mr. T. W. Backhouse, Mr. T. D. Latonche, Messrs McConnel and
Kidd, and others.        I  have myself also frequently noticed the six-
rayed starlike figures     and  skeleton triangular forms on natural pond
ice, and other similar indications of the tendency of lake ice to the
hexagonal form of crystallisation.
III.   " The Passive State of Iron and Steel."— Part L                   By
       Thos. Andrews, F.R.SS.L. and           E., M.Inst.C.E.    Received
       May     18, 1890.
    The singular metallurgical phenomenon of the passive state of iron
presents many features of interest, affording a wide field for original
research.      The knowledge we possess on this peculiar and obscure
subject   is  not,  however, very extensive, owing possibly to the difficul
ties encountered in devising suitable methods of research in relation
thereto.      The author, therefore, approached the investigation with
considerable diffidence, feeling greatly the difficulties accompanying

1890.]              The Passive State    of Iron and  Steel.            117
a research     of this intricate nature.   He feels, however, rewarded by
the measure of success which has ensued.             The general tentative
conclusion he has arrived at, as a result of careful experimentation,
is   that the passive state of iron and steel ought not to be regarded as
fixed or static, the electro-chemical observations tending to show that
the passivity is a property influenced more or less by various condi
tions, such as variation of the molecular structure and chemical
composition of the iron and steel, different strengths of nitric acid,
modification of attendant physical conditions, magnetism, tempera
ture, &c.      It is known that when bright iron is immersed in nitric
acid of 1*4 sp. gr., the iron is not acted upon, but remains passive in
the acid, which appears to exert no perceptible effect upon the metal.
" Under certain circumstances iron is not acted
                                                       upon at all by nitric
acid.      Iron in this state is termed passive, and this condition is
brought about by dipping the metal into concentrated nitric acid and
then washing it ".(' Treatise on Chemistry,' by Sir Henry E. Roscoe,
F.R.S., and Dr. C. Schorlemmer, F.R.S.). The late Dr. Jno. Percy,
F.R.S., the eminent metallurgist, referring to the passive state of iron,
remarked that " this is a very curious and interesting subject, which
may possibly be one day fonnd to admit of valuable practical applica
tion." The passive state of iron appears first to have been observed
just a century ago by Keir, and brought before the notice of the
 Royal Society in 1790 (' Phil. Trans.,' 1790, p. 379) ; he observed that
 strong nitric acid had no action on iron when the metal was placed
 therein.      Bergman, Scheurer-Kestner, Schonbein, and Buff also
 made some observations on the passivity of iron previous to the year
 1848.      Faraday and Beetz were disposed to attribute the passive state
 of iron to the immediate formation of a very fine envelope or film of
 oxide on immersion of the metal in concentrated nitric acid, whereas
 Sir John Herschel (' Annales de Chimie,' vol. 54, 1833, p. 87) con
 sidered the phenomenon was due to a certain permanent electric state
 of the surface of the metal.
      Westlar (' Annales des Mines,' vol. 2, 1832, p. 322) observed that
 when iron or steel had been immersed in nitrate of silver solution it
 failed to precipitate copper from its solutions.
      Braconnot ('Annales de Chimie,' vol. 52, 1833, p. 288) noticed that
  filings or plates of iron were not at all affected in strong nitric acid at
  ordinary temperatures.
      In the present memoir are presented the results of a study of cer
  tain magnetic, temperature, and other conditions which the author
  found to affect the passive state of iron and steel, and he is extending
  the inquiry into the relative passivity of the various modern steels
  and other aspects of the subject.       The author observed, in course of
  experimentation      some  years ago,  that when bright iron or steel was
   magnetised whilst immersed in concentrated nitric acid, its passive

 118                             Mr.   T. Andrews.                             [June  5,
 condition was to some slight extent modified, magnetism acting
 through considerable periods of time apparently exerting a measurable
  influence.     For conducting the present investigation ho devised, and.
 after careful consideration, decided to adopt, the delicate electro
 chemical method of research hereafter described, and by the use of a
 sensitive astatic mirror galvanometer and other appliances the follow
 ing results were obtained, which it is hoped may prove of interest and
 afford an addition to our knowledge of some of the conditions affect
 ing the passive state of iron and steel.
     For convenience, the experiments are classified under the following
 beads : —
     Series I, Table I. containing the result of observations on the
 influence of magnetisation on the passive state of steel in cold nitric
 acid, sp. gr. 1*42, at temperature of 45° F. or less.
     Series   II,  Table II, treating of the influence of magnetisation on
 the passive state of steel in warm nitric acid, sp. gr. l-42, above the
 temperature of 45° F., the experiments showing that magnetised
 steel bars were less passive in warm nitric acid than unmagnctised
 ones.
                         Chemical Analysis of the Steel Bars.
                                                                per cent.
                    Combined carbon                               O570
                    Silicon                                       0032
                    Sulphur . ,                                   trace
                    Phosphorus                                    0"066
                    Manganese                                     0'147
                    Iron (by difference)                        99185
                                Total                          100-000
                      Physical Properties of the Steel Bars.
      Contraction of area                           Breaking strain per square inch
                                  Extension.
          ut fracture.                                      of original area.
           per cent.               per cent.                       tons
                22                   20                          55 -42
                                       Series    I.
    The Influence of Magnetisation on the Passive Slate of Steel              in Cold
                                     Nitric Acid.
    The method of experimentation            for the observations of Series       I was
as follows    : —

  1890.]              The Passive  State of Iron and SteeL              119
    For each    experiment a pair of polished steel bars, 8^ inches long,
and 0 261      diameter, were out adjacently from a long steel rod to
insure practical uniformity of structure and composition.         The steel
and iron rods were of the chemical composition and physical proper
ties given on previous page.
   The apparatus will be understood on reference to fig.     1.
                                      Fig. 1.
   A pair of      bars, supported in a wooden frame, W, were immersed
in  If fluid oz. of cold concentrated nitric acid, sp. gr. 1*42, contained
in the   \J -tube, A being the magnetised bar, and B the unmagnetised
one, and allowed to remain therein for periods stated on the Table I.
The bars were in circuit with a delicate astatic mirror galvanometer,
the telescopic observations of the deflections of which were carefully
taken.     In some cases the bar A was previously permanently mag
netised by hand, and in other instances the bar was magnetised in the
coil C for a short time.          In the latter instances the subsequent
results were due to the residual permanent magnetism.            The mag
netising    coil,  C, was  a powerful   one,  and was worked in  connexion
with a bichromate battery in cases where the magnetisation of the
metal was made in the coil.
   A considerable number of experiments were made in the above
manner, those sets recorded on the Table I being selected as average
typical ones. In all the following experiments a new wooden stand
 and a fresh pair of bright polished steel or iron rods were prepared
 for each set of observations.
    VOL. xlviii.                                                   K

120                               Mr. T. Andrews.                               [June      5,
  The E.M.F. recorded in all the following tables was ascertained by
nsing a sensitive galvanometer of known calibration in conjunction
with the ascertained resistance of the nitric acid solutions.
                                        Table    I.
         Influence of Magnetisation          on the Passive State of Steel.
              Electro-chemical effect between magnetised and unmagnetised             steel
   Time
                 bars immersed in circuit in cold nitric acid, sp. gr. 142. E.M.F.
   from
                 in volt. The electro-chemical position of magnetised bar, positive,
   com
                 except where otherwise sueoiuou.
  mence
 ment of
  experi
             Experiments, Experiments, Experiment*, Experiments, Experiments, Experiments,
   ment.         Set I.      Set 11.     Set HI.      Set IV.       Set V.       Set VI.
 seconds.
       0                     0 022        0-022                     0-016
     15                      0 013        0 021                     0-014
     SO                      0-011        0-020                     0-013
 minutes
       1         o-ooi       0-008        0 019        0 008        0 013
       4         0-004       0 007        0-009        0011         0 014
       6         0 004       0 008        0 006        0011         0 014
       8        0 004        0-008        0 007        0 011        0-015
     10         0 005        0 007        0-008        0-011        0   015       0-006
     12         0 005        0 007        0-009        0 011        0  -015       0-006
     16         0-005        0-007        0011         o-oii        0   015       0 006
     20         0 006        0-006        0  011       0   011      0   015       0 006
     24         0 006        0 006        0  012       0   010      0-515         0  006
     28         0-006        0 006        0  013       0   010      0   015       0  006
     30         0 006        0-006        0 -013       0   010      0   015       0  006
     35                      0-007        0  013       0   006      0   015       0  006
     50                      0 008        0  014       0   007      0   015       0  004
   hours
      •1                     o-oio        0  014       0   007      0 016         0 004
      2                      0 011        0  018       0   007      0 016         0 0(i4
       3                     0 013        0  020       0   008      0 017         0-005
      3i                     0 016        0  022       0  -008      0-017         0-005
      4                                   0-022        0-008        0   017       OOOfi
      6                                   0-024                     0   017       0 006
      8                                   0 026                     0   018       0 007
     12                                   o-oao                     0   018       0 007
     16                                   0 030                     0   018       0 007
     18                                   0 030                     0   018       0 008
     20                                   0 029                     0   019       0 008
     22                                   0 029                     0   019       0 008
     24                                   0-029                     0  019        0 008
     2G                                                                           0 007
     28                                                                           0-007
     30                                                                           0-007
     40                                                                           0 013
     42                                                                           0 013

1800.]                  The Passim State           of Iron and         SteeL                    121
                                      Table I — continued.
          Influence of Magnetisation on the Passive State of Steel.
                Electro-chemical effect between magnetised and unmagnetised steel
   Time
                   bars immersed in circuit in cold nitric acid, sp. gr. 1'42.          E.M.F.
   from
                   in Tolt. The electro-chemical position of magnetised bar, positive,
   com
                   except where otherwise specified.
  mence
 ment of
  experi                                                |
               Experiments,   Kxperiments, Kxperiments,   Experiments,  Experiments, Experiments,
   ment.         Set VII.       Set VIII.    Set IX.    I    Set X.       Set XI.       Set XII.
   hours
        1                      0-0005 N       0005 N         0 000         0  000        0 011
        8        0-004N        0-006          001 N          0-000         0  000        0-018
      12         0-003         0-011          000            0 002         0  002        0 020
     20          0  008        0 012          001            0 004         0  004        0 021
      24         0  012        0-012          001            0-002         0-005         0-02ti
      26         0  012        0 012          001            0 002         0-005         0 02.!
     28          0  013        0013           002            0-002         0 006         O-Oio
      30         0-013         0 013          0(i2           0-002         0-006         0-024
      32         0013          0014           002                          0 006         0  -02.8
      40         0  016        0-015          004                          0 007         0   030
       12        0  017        0-015          00 t                         0 007         0   030
      48         0  020        0-016          000                          o-uor         0   032
      51         0  020        0 016          006                          0 008         0   032
      64         0  020        0 016          007                          0-011         0   032
      60         0  020        0 017          008                          0-011         0   032
      72         0  023        0 017          011                          o-oii         0   032
    davs
        3i       0-023         0 017          011                          0-011         0-030
        31       0 024         0 017          012                          0 012         0-027
        3i       0 025         0-018          018                          0-012         0 024
        4        0-026         0 018          014                          0-013         0-022
        H        0-( 26        0018           014                          0-J13         0-020
        41       0-027         0-018          015                          0 013         0-018
         i;      0-027        0 -019          016                          0 013         0 016
        5        0  028        0-019          016                          0-013         0 013
        5J       0  028        0 019          016                          0013
        51       0  028       0-018           017                          0   013
        5i       0  028        0 018          017                          0   013
        6        0  028        0-017          017                          0   013
        Hi       0  027                       017                          0   013
        Oi       0-026                        017                          0 013
        ci       0 025                        017                          0-013
        7        0-024                        017                          0 013
   Some of the magnetised bars employed in the experiments on
Table 1 were magnetised by touch, and in other experiments they
were magnetised in the coil as previously described.
   In    some instances on          Table I it was noticed that on the first im
mersion      of the metals in the nitric acid an almost instantaneous but
steady deflection         of considerable extent of the needle of the galvano
meter       occurred,       indicating an electto- positive position for the
                                                                                     K 2

                            Mr. T. Andrews.                        [June 5,
magnetised bar ; this more extended fling of the galvanometer, how
ever, subsided in a few seconds, and did not interfere with after
results due to electro-chemical    action.
   The results of Series I, in cold nitric acid, were perhaps more per
ceptible in those experiments extending over the longer periods (see
Table I), though even in these, the effect was comparatively small. In
a recent research by the author on
                                             " Electro-chemical Effects on
Magnetising Iron," Part       II ('Roy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 44, p. 152), it
was noticed that local currents were set up between the polar
terminals and central portions of steel magnets exposed in electro
lytes, and this class of local action, together with the slight alteration
of the physical structure of the magnet bars consequent on their
magnetisation, may possibly be involved in producing the effects due
t> magnetism on passive steel or iron in concentrated nitric acid.
The influence of magnetism of low intensity, whilst modifying to a
very limited extent, does not, however, appear sufficient entirely to
overcome, the passivity of the metal in nitric acid, and the influence
of even a powerful magnetic force, though doubtless slightly modify
ing (to the extent, possibly, of the slight alteration of physical state
in the metals, induced by magnetism), did not destroy the passivity
of bright iron or steel exposed to its action in cold strong nitric
acid.
   The whole of the results on Table I afford an indication that mag
netisation   of comparatively low intensity, acting during considerable
periods of time, exerts only a limited modifying influence on the
passivity of iron or steel in the cold, or up to a temperature of about
60° P., though the influence is just discernible when employing a
delicate galvanometer.      Magnetisation, with the nitric acid at a
higher temperature, produces a quicker effect, see results in Series II,
Table II. The author is pleased to see that somewhat similar con
clusions as to the influence of powerful magnetisation on the passive
state of powdered iron in warm nitric acid have been independently
arrived at in America by Messrs. Nichols and Pranklin, who, in some
 recent interesting experiments,       have found that powdered iron in
 nitric acid, P368 sp. gr., when placed in a test-tube in a suitable
 apparatus between the poles of a powerful electro-magnet commenced
 to be violently acted upon when raised to a temperature of 51° C.
 Unmagnetised iron usually remains passive in strong nitric acid
 until a temperature of about 89° C. is reached, when an explosion,
 consequent on loss of passivity,          ocenrs.    Messrs. Nichols and
 Franklin's experiments, therefore, show that very powerful magnetic
 action helps to lower the temperature of transition from the passive
                                                       " the intensity of the
 to the active state. They have also found that
 magnetic field necessary to convert passive into active iron at a given
 temperature increases rapidly with the concentration of the acid."

1890.]            The Passive State     of Iron and   Steel.               123
   Unknown to    each other, we have been simultaneously       and indepen
dently prosecuting researches having a like object, and        it is satisfac
tory to have arrived at somewhat similar conclusions,             though    by
different methods of experimentation.
                                 Series  II.
    Influence of Magnetisation   on the Passive State  of Steel in Nitric
            Acid, 1'42 sp. gr., above the temperature   of 45° F.
   The experiments for this set of observations       were conducted      in a
somewhat similar manner to those of Series      I.    The U"taDe contain-
                                   Fia. 2.
 ing  the nitric acid of 1*42 sp. gr., with the magnetised bar A,
     inches long, 0"261 inch diameter (permanently magnetised by
 touch), and unmagnetised bar B, 8£ inches long, 0 261 inch diameter,

 124                         Mr.  T. Andrews.                      [June 5,
 were immersed and rigidly supported in a large beaker of water on        a
 sand-bath, and the whole gradually heated to any required tempera
 ture, a thermometer, T, being suspended in the beaker.          The mag
 netised and unmagnetised        bars were in circuit with a delicate
 galvanometer throughout each experiment.
    The arrangement is shown on fig. 2, and the results are given on
 Table  II.
    The nitric acid remained perfectly colourless until a temperature of
about 100° to 120° F. was reached, when a very pale-yellow tint
began to be perceptible in both tubes, which gradually deepened
until the critical point of explosion was reached, at which the passivity
 of the steel ceased.
    During the intervening period, the metal was acted upon but
slightly in both tubes ; a small evolution of gas showed itself in the
form of tiny bubbles adhering to the surface of the steel rod at a tempe
rature of about 170° F. No extensive solvent action, however, occurred
until the acid arrived at a temperature of about 190° to 200° F. (the
explosion occurred most frequently at an average temperature             of
195° F.), when, without any previous warning, a violent explosive
evolution of red nitric oxide gas took place, the steel being instantly
and vigorously attacked by the nitric acid.      After the first explosion
the metal again became partially passive for a short time.             The
explosion and solution of the steel first commenced in the limb
of the (J -tube containing the magnetised steel bar, and the first inti
mation of the passivity of the steel having been overcome was a
sudden and extensive fling of the galvanometer,          positive for the
magnet    bar.   The  bars  were   almost instantly  removed     from the
nitric acid ; the solution in the limb of the JJ-tube which had con
tained the magnetised bar was of a very dark-brown colour compared
with solution in the other limb, thus giving further proof that the
magnetised bar had been first attacked.
   At the moment of explosion, the E.M.F. was very considerable ; in
several instances it varied from about -j^th to as high as £rd of a
volt, the magnetised bar being the electro- positive metal, see
Table II.
   In the experiment, Table II, col. 9, the temperature was not raised
above 185° F., and no explosive evolution of nitric oxide gas, there
fore, occurred ; the metals were maintained in the nitric acid at a
temperature gradually reducing from 185° to 165° F. in course of
one hour.     The steel did not fully lose its passivity, but was, how
ever, only very slowly and partially acted upon by the nitric acid,
even at this high temperature.

1890.]               The Passive State of Iron and Steel.                        125
                                      Table IT.
             Current between bright magnetised and unmagnetised passive steel
                bars immersed in circuit in warm nitric acid, 142 sp. gr.       The
                electro-chemical position of the magnetised bar, positive, except
                where otherwise specified.    E.M.ij'. in volt.
from com
  mence      Column         Column     Column        Column     Column     Column
   ment.       No. 1.        No. 2.     No..3.        No. 4.     No. 6.     No. 6.
      55      0  005                                            0 001
     60       0  005      -  9-005      0 003      0-(00        0 004    0-004
     65       0  005        0  005      0 003       0 0005 N    0 005    0 004
     70       0  006        0  005      0-003      0 001 N      0-01)6   0 004
     75       0  006        0  005      0 003      0-001 N      0 008    0-003
     80       0 006         0  005      0 002      0 001    N   0 009    0-003
     85       0 007         0  005     0 002       0 001    N   0 011    0 002
     90       0 009         0  005     0-002       o-ooi N      0011     o-ooi
     95       0-009         0  006     0 002       0-001 N      0 012    0-0005
    J00       0-009         0  006     0 002       0 0005 N     0 013    0 000
    105       0 009         0-006      0 002       o-ooo        0012     0 0005    N
    110       0 010         0-006      0 002       o-ooo        0 011    0-001 N
    115       0 010         0 006      0 002       0 004        0 011    0 001   N
    120       0 010         0 006      0 003       0 009        0 010    0-002 N
    125       o-oio         0-006      0 010       0 012        0 0a9    0 001   N
    130       0 010         0 006      0 014       0-014        0-009    0-001 N
    135       0011          0 005      0 018       0  014       0 007    0-0005 N
    140       0 014         0 004      0 023       0  014       0 006    0-000
    145       0 013         0-003      0 023       0  014       0 006
    150      0 010          0-002      0 023       0  014       0-006    0  003
    155      0   009        0 001      0 022       0  015       0-00(5   0  004
    160      0   005        o-ooo      0-020       0  017       0 006    0  009
    165      0   007        0-003      0 019       0-018        0 005    0  011
    170      0   009        0-006      0-018       0 019        0 001    0  013
    173      0   009        0 011      0 017       0 021        0 005    0  013
    175      0   009        0 010      0 016       0 024        0-005    0  014
   180       0   009        0 010      0-016       0 026        0 006    0  013
   185       0-006          0011       0 014       0-027        0 004    0-010
    190      0 006          0 012      0-014       0 027        o-ooi    0-006
   191       0 006»                                             o-ooo
   192       0 328          0 -189*
   193                                 0 110«
   195                                                          0 038*
   198                                                                   0 072*
   200                                             0 038
   202                                             0 038
   205                                                    *
           Temperature point of transition from passive to active state.
             191°  F.       192° F.    193° F.      205°  F.    195° F.    198° F.
         1

126                    The Passive State of Iron and Steel                      [June    5,
                                   Table  II— continued.
                     Current between     bright magnetised and unmagnetis ed passive
                        steel bars immersed   in circuit in warm nitric acid, 1'42 sp. gr.
      Tempera           The electro-chemical position of the magnetised bar, positive,
 ture in degrees,       except where otherwise specified.      B.M.F. in rolt.
   Fahrenheit,
        from
commencement.                                                                    Column
                        Column           Column         Column      Column
                         No. 7.           No. 8.         No. 9.      No. 10.      No.lL
                                                »
          45              0 000
          50              0 0005          0-007          0-002       0-002 N
          55              o-ooi           0 007          0 002       0  003  N
          60              0 001           0-008          0-002       0  003  N    0 004
          65              0 001           0-O09          0 003       0  002  N    0-003
          70              o-ooi           0-008          0 003       0  002  N    0 003
          75              0 002           0 008          0 004       o-ooo        0 003
          80              0 002           0 007          0-005       0 002        0 003
          85              0 002           0-006          0 006       0 004        0 002
          90              0 002           0 006          0 006       0-006        0 002
          95              0-003           0 005          0 005       0-009        0 002
        100               0 005           0 004          0 004       0 010        0 002
        105               0 005           0-003          0 002       0 011        0 001
        110               0 007           0-002          0 001       0 013        0 001
         115              0 008           0 003          0 000       0 014        0 001
         120              0-009           0 003          0 000       0-014        0 002
         125              0 010           0-004          0 000       0 014        0 003
         130              0 011           0-001          0 001  N    0 014        0 004
         135              0 012           0-006          0-002 N     0-014        0 006
         140              0 012           0 009          0 003 N     0 014        0-007
         145              0 012           0 011          0 003N      0-015        0 009
         150              0 013           0 011          0 003 N     0 015        0 011
         155                              0 011          0 002 N     0 016        0 014
         160         The temperature of the solu         o-ooo       0 020        0 018
         165           tion was, in these experi         0 002       0 027        0 017
         170           ments, maintained at about        0 003       0 030        0 011
    -    175           150* F. for one hour with         0 004       0 034
         180           out explosion occurring, the      0 007       0-038
         185           E.M.F. gradually rising to        0 009       0 041
         190           0 22 of a volt.                               0 072*
               Tem perature point of transition from passive to active state.
                                                                      190°  F.
      In   addition   to the observations         recorded in Table II, numerous
 other confirmatory         experiments were made which it is not needful to
 give in detail.
     •  At  theBe temperatures the first violent explosive ebullition of red nitric oxide
  gas occurred consequent     on the loss of passivity of the metal. The average critical
 temperature point of transition from the passive to the active state was about 195° F.
    The observations show that the magnetised steel bars were less passive in warm
nitric acid than the unmagnetised steel bars.

  1890.]           On the Superficial Viscosity          of  Water.                127
      IV. " On the Superficial Viscosity of Water."                  By Lord
            Raylkigh, Sec. R.S. Received May 15,                    1890.
    The idea that liquids are endowed with a viscosity peculiar to the
surface is to be found in the writings of Descartes and Rumford ; but
it is to Plateau that its general acceptance is due. His observations
related to the behaviour of a compass needle, turning freely upon a
point, and mounted in the centre of a cylindrical glass vessel of
diameter not much more than sufficient to allow freedom of move
ment. By means of an external magnet the needle was deflected 90°
from the magnetic meridian.                 When all had come to rest the
magnet was suddenly removed, and the time occupied                    by the needle
in recovering its position of equilibrium, or rather in traversing an
arc of 85°, was noted.        The circumstances were varied in two ways :
first, by a change of liquid, e.g., from water to alcohol ; and, secondly,
by an alteration in the level of the liquid relatively to the needle.
With each liquid observations were made, both when the needle
rested on the surface, so as to be wetted only on the under side, and
also   when wholly immersed to a moderate depth. A comparison of
the times required in the two cases revealed a remarkable depend
ence upon the nature of the liquid.              With water, and most aqueous
solutions, the time required upon the surface was about double of that
in the interior ; whereas, with liquids of Plateau's second category,
alcohol, ether, oil of turpentine, &c, the time on the surface was
about half of the time in the interior.                  Of liquids in the third
category (from which bubbles may be blown), a solution of soap
behaved in much the same manner as the distilled water of the first
category.      On the other hand, solutions of albumen, and notably' of
saponine, exercised at their surfaces an altogether abnormal resist
ance.
    These experiments of Platean undoubtedly establish a special pro
 perty of the surfaces of liquids of the first and third categories ; but
 the question remains open whether the peculiar action upon the
 needle is to be attributed to a viscosity in any way analogous to the
 ordinary internal viscosity which governs the flow through capillary
 tubes.
    In two remarkable        papers,* Marangoni attempts the solution of
 this problem, and arrives at the conclusion that Plateau's superficial
 viscosity may be explained as due to the operation of causes already
 recognised.     In the    case    of water and other         liquids of the first
  category,   he regards     the resistance       experienced    by the   needle as
    • ' Nuoto Cimento,' Ser. 2, toI. 5-6, Apr.,        '
                                                         Nuoto Cimento,' Ser. 3, vol. 3,
                                                1872 j
 1878.

 128                                 Lord Rayleigh.                            [June 5,
 mainly the result of the deformation of the meniscuses developed at
 the contacts on the two sides with the liquid surface.                      This view
 does not appear to me to be sound ; for a deformation of a meniscus
 due to inertia would not involve any dissipation of energy, nor per
 manent resistance to the movement.                 But the second suggestion of
 Marangoni is of great importance.
     On various grounds the Italian physicist concludes that "many
 liquids, and especially those of Plateau's third category, are covered
 with a superficial pellicle; and that it is to this pellicle that they owe
 their great superficial viscosity." After the observations of Dupre*
 and inyself.t supported as they are by the theory of Professor Willard
  Gibbs,{ the existence of the superficial pellicle cannot be doubted ;
 and its mode of action is thus explained by Marangoni§ : — " The
 surface of a liquid, covered by a pellicle, possesses two superficial
 tensions ; the first, which is the weaker and in constant action, is
 due to the pellicle ; the second is in the latent state, and comes into
 operation only when the pellicle is ruptured.                      Since the latter
 tension exceeds the former, it follows that any force which tends to
 rupture the superficial pellicle upon a liquid encounters a resistance
 which increases with the difference of tensions between the liquid
and the pellicle." In Plateau's experiment the advancing edge of the
 needle tends        to concentrate     the superficial contamination, and the
 retreating edge to attenuate it ; the tension in front is thus inferior
to the tension behind, and a force is called into operation tending to
check the vibration.           On a pure surface it is evident that nothing of
this sort can occur, unless it be in a very subordinate degree, as the
result of difference of temperature.
     There    is an important distinction, discussed by Willard Gibbs,
according        as the contamination,         to which is due the lowering of
tension, is merely accidentally present upon the surface, or is derived
from the body of the liquid under the normal operation of chemical
and capillary forces.          In the latter case, that, for example, of solu
tions of soap and of camphor, the changes of tension which follow
an extension or contraction of the surface may be of very brief
duration.        After a time, dependent largely upon the amount of con
taminating substance present in the body of the liquid, equilibrium
is restored, and the normal tension is recovered.                       On the other
hand, in the case of a surface of water contaminated with a film of
   *  '
        Throne M6canique de la Chaleur,' Paris, 1869, p. 377.
   t    On the Tension of Recently Formed Liquid Surfaces," ' Roy. Soc. Proc.,'
vol. 47. 1890, p. 281 (aupra).
   t 'Connecticut Acad. Trans.,' vol. 3, Part II, 1877-78. In my former communi
cation   I overlooked  Prof. G-ibbs's very valuable discussion on this subject.
   § 'Nuovo Cimento,' vol. 5-6, 1871-72, p. 260 (May, 1872).

1890.J                On the Superficial Viscosity      of   Wuter.                129
insoluble grease, the changes of tension which accompany changes of
area are of a permanent character.
    It is not perfectly clear how far Marangoni regarded his principle
of surface elasticity as applicable to the explanation of Plateau's
observations upon distilled water ; but, at any rate, he applied it to
the analogous problem of the effect of oil in calming ripples.                   It is
unfortunate that this attempt at the solution of a long-standing riddle
cannot be regarded as successful.             He treats the surface of the sea
in its normal condition as contaminated, and therefore elastic, and
he    supposes that, upon an elastic surface, the               wind     will operate
efficiently.     When oil is scattered upon the sea, a         non-elastic    surface
of oil is substituted for the elastic surface of the            sea, and upon this
the wind acts too locally to generate wares.             It is doubtless true that
an excess     of oil may render a water surface again inelastic ; but I
conceive that the real explanation of the phenomenon is to be found
by a precisely opposite application of Marangoni's principle, as in the
theories of Reynolds* and Aitken.f Marangoni was, perhaps, in
sufficiently alive to the importance of varying degrees of contamina
tion. An ordinary water surface is indeed more or less contaminated ;
and on that account is the less, and not the more, easily agitated by
wind.     The effect of a special oiling is, in general, to increase the
contamination and the elasticity dependent thereupon, and stops short
of the point at which, on account of saturation, elasticity would again
disappear.       The more elastic surface refuses to submit itself to the
local variations of area required for the transmission of waves in a
normal manner.            It behaves rather as a flexible but inextensible
membrane would do, and, by its drag upon the water underneath,
hampers the free production and propagation of waves.
    The question whether the effects ohserved by Plateau upon the
 surface of distilled water are, or are not, due to contamination              must,
 I suppose, be regarded as still undecided. Oberbeck, who has ex
 perimented      on the lines of     Plateau, thus sums up his discussion : —
 "Wir    mussen daher        schliessen, entweder, dass der freicn Wasser-
 oberflache    ein recht bedeutender         Oberflachenwiderstand         znkommt,
 oder   dass  eine    reine Wasseroberflache      in Beruhrung mit der Luft
 iiberhaupt nicht      existirt."J
     Postponing for the moment the question of the origin of " super
 ficial viscosity," let us consider its character.            A liquid surface is
 capable of two kinds of deformation, dilatation (positive or negative)
 and shearing ; and the question at once presents itself, is it the
  former or the latter which evokes the special resistance ? Towards
               • « Brit. Assoc. Rep.,' 1880.
               t  '
                    Edinburgh Roy. Soc. Proc.,' 1882-83, vol. 12, p. 56.
               J  Wiedemann's 'Annalen,' toI. 11, 1880, p. 650.

130                             Lord Rayleigh.                           [June    5,
the answer of this question Marangoni himself made an important
contribution in the earlier of the memoirs cited. He found (p. 24o)
that the substitution for the elongated needle of Plateau of a
circular disc of thin brass turning upon its centre almost obliterated
the distinction between liquids of the two first categories.                    The
ratio of the superficial to the internal viscosity was now even greater
for ether than for water. From this we may infer that the special
superficial viscosity of water is not called into play by the motions of
the surface due to the rotation of the disc, which are obviously of the
nature of shearing.
    A varied form of this experiment is still more significant.              I have
reduced the metal in contact with the water surface to a simple (2")
ring ACBD of thin brass wire (tig. 1). This is supported by a fine
 silk fibre,  so that it may turn freely about its centre. To give a
definite set, and to facilitate forced displacements, a magnetised
sewing needle, NS, is attached with the aid of wax.             In order to make
an experiment, the ring is adjusted to the surface of water contained
in a shallow vessel. When all is at rest, the surface is dusted over
with a little fine sulphur,* and the suspended system is suddenly set
iuto rotation by an external magnet. The result is very distinct,
and contrasts strongly with that observed by Plateau. Instead of the
surface enclosed by the ring being carried round with it in its
rotation, not the smallest movement can be perceived, except perhaps
in the immediate neighbourhood of the wire itself. It is clear that
 an ordinary water surface does not appreciably resist shearing.
    * Sulphur seems to be on the whole the best material, although it certainly com
 municates some impurity to the surface.    Freshly heated pumice or wood-ashes
sink immediately ; and probably all powders really free from grease would behave
in like manner.

1890.]           On the Superficial Viscosity    of Water.              131
   A very Blight modification of the apparatus restores the similarity
to that  of Plateau.   This consists merely in the addition to the ring
of a material diameter of the same brass wire, CD, fig. 2. If the ex
periment be repeated, the sulphur indicates that the whole water
surface included within the semicircles now shares in the motion.
In general terms the surface may be said to be carried round with
the ring, although the motion is not that of a rigid body.
   Experiments of this kind prove that what a water surface resists is
not shearing, but local expansions and contractions           of area, even
under the condition that the total area shall remain unchanged.         And
this is precisely what should be expected, if the cause of the viscosity
wore a surface contamination.       A shearing movement does not intro
duce any variation in the density of the contamination, and therefore
does not bring Marangoni's principle into play.       Under these circum
stances there is no resistance.
   It remains to consider liquids of the third category in Plateau's
nomenclature.     The addition of a little oleate of soda does not alter
the behaviour of water, at least if the surface be tolerably fresh.      On
the other hand, a very small quantity of sapouine suffices to render
the surface almost rigid.       In the experiment with the simple ring
the whole interior surface is carried round as if rigidly attached.
A similar effect is produced by gelatine, though in a less marked
degree.
   In the  case of saponine, therefore,    it must be fully admitted that
there is a superficial viscosity not to be accounted for on Marangoni's
principle by the tendency of contamination to spread itself uniformly.
It seems not improbable that the pellicle formed upon the surface
may have the properties of a solid, rather than of a liquid.      However,
this may be, the fact is certain that a contracting saponine surface
has no definite tension   alike in all directions.   A sufficient proof is to
be found in the well known experiment in which a saponine bubble
 becomes   wrinkled when the internal air is removed.
    The quasi-solid pellicle on the surface of saponine would be of
 extreme thinness, and, even if it exist, could hardly be recognisable
 by ordinary methods of examination.         It would moreover be capable
 of re-absorption into the body of liquid if unduly concentrated by
 contraction of surface, differing in this respect from the gross, and
 undoubtedly solid, pellicles which form on the surface of hard water
 on exposure to the atmosphere.
    Two further observations relative to saponine may here find a
 place.   The wrinkling of a bubble when the contained gas is ex
 hausted occurs also in an atmosphere (of coal gas) from which
 oxygen and carbonic acid are excluded.
    In Plateau's experiment a needle which is held stiffly upon the
 surface of a saponine solution is to a great extent released when the

132                                Lord Kayleigh.                     [June   5,
surface is contaminated           by grease from the finger or by a minute
drop of petroleum.
   To return to the        case   of water, it is    of the utmost im-
                                                    a question
pnrtance to decide whether the superficial viscosity of even distilled
water is, or is not, due to contamination with a film of foreign matter
capable of lowering the tension.    The experiments of Oberbeck would
appear to render the former alternative very improbable ; but, on the
other hand, if the existence of the film be once admitted, the observed
facts can be very readily explained.     The question is thus reduced
to this : Can we believe that the water surface in Plateau's apparatus
is almost of necessity contaminated with a greasy film ? The argu
ment which originally weighed most with me, in favour of the affir
mative  answer is derived from the experiments of Quincke upon
mercury.   It is known that, contrary to all analogy, a drop of water
does not ordinarily spread upon the surface of mercury.         This is
certainly due to contamination    with  a  greasy  film ; for Professor
Quincke*  fouud that it was possible so to prepare  mercury  that water
would spread upon it. But the precautions required are so elaborate
that probably no one outside Professor Quincke's laboratory has ever
witnessed what must nevertheless be regarded as the normal be
haviour of these two bodies in presence of one another.    The bearing
of this upon the question under discussion is obvious.       If it be so
difficult to obtain a mercury surface  which   shall stand  one  test of
purity, why may it not be equally difficult to prepare a water surface
competent to pass another ?
  The method by which I have succeeded in proving that Plateau's
superficial viscosity is really due to contamination consists in the
preparation of a pure surface exhibiting quite different phenomena ;
and it was suggested to me by an experiment of Mr. Aitken.f This
observer found that, if a gentle stream of air be directed vertically
downwards upon the surface of water dusted over with fine powder,
a place is cleared        the point of impact.
                       round                      It may be added that
on the cessation of the    wind the dust  returns,   showing that the
tension of the bared spot exceeds that of the surrounding surface.
  The apparatus, shown in figs. 3, 4, is constructed of sheet brass.
The circular part, which may be called the well, has the dimensions
given by Plateau.     The diameter is 11 cm., and the depth 6 cm.
The needle is 10 cm. long, 7 mm. in breadth at the centre, and about
03 mm. thick. It is suspended at a height of 2^ cm. above the bottom
or the vessel.   So far there is nothing special ; but in connexion
with the well there is a rectangular trough, or tail-piece, about 2£ cm.
broad and 20 cm. long.    Between the two parts a sliding door may
               • Poggenrforff's ' Aunalen,' vol. 139, 1870, p. 6l>.
              •(•   Lou. cit., p. ti9.

  1890.]           On the Superficial    Viscosity of Water.           133
                                        Fiff  3.
                                         PLAN
                                   Scale =  f
be inserted, by which the connexion is cut off, and the circular peri
phery of the well completed.        The action of the apparatus depends
upon    a stream    of wind, supplied from an acoustic bellows, and
discharged    from  a glass nozzle, in a direction slightly downwards, so
as to strike the water surface in the tail-piece at a point a little
beyond the door.       The effect of the wind is to carry any greasj-
film towards the far end, and thus to purify the near end of the tail
piece.    When the door is up, this effect influences also the water
surface in the well upon which the jet does not operate directly.
For, if the tension there be sensibly less than that of the neighbouring
surface in the tail-piece, an outward flow is generated, and persists as
long as the difference of tensions is sensible. The movements of the
surface are easily watched if a little sulphur be dusted over; when
the water in the well has been so far cleansed that but little further
movement is visible, the experiment may be repeated without chang
ing the water by contaminating the surface with a little grease from
 the finger or otherwise.     In this way the surface may be freed from
an insoluble contamination any number of times, the accumulation of
impurity at the far end of the tail-piece not interfering with the
cleanness of the surface in the well.
    Another device that I have usually employed facilitates, or at any
rate hastens, the cleansing process. When the operation is nearly com
plete, the movement of the surface becomes sluggish on account of
the approximate balance of tensions.          At this stage the movement

 134                              Lord Rayleigh.                          [June  5.
 may be revived, and the purification accelerated, by the application
 of heat to the bottom of the well at the part furthest removed from
 the tail-piece.      It may, perhaps, be thoaght that convection currents
 might be substituted altogether for wind ; but in my experience it is
 not so. Until a high degree of purity is attained, the operation of
 convection currents does not extend to the surface, being resisted by
 the film according to Marangoni's principle.
    When the apparatus was designed, it was hoped that the door
 could be made a sufficiently good fit to prevent the return of the
 greasy film into the well ; but experience showed that this could not
be relied upon.        It was thus necessary to maintain the wind during
the whole time of observation.             The door was, however, useful in
intercepting mechanical disturbance.
   A very large      number of consistent observations have been recorded.
 The return      of the  needle, after deflection to 90°, is timed over an arc
of 60°, viz., from 90° to 30°, and is assisted by a fixed steel magnet
acting in aid of the earth's magnetism. A metronome, beating three
times per second, facilitates the time measurement.              An an example,
I  may    quote   some   observations  made    on April  11.
   The apparatus was rinsed and carefully filled with distilled water.
In this state the time was 12 (beats). After blowing for a while
there    was     a reduction to 10, and after another operation to 8.
The assistance of convection currents was then appealed to, and
the time fell to 6}, and after another operation to 6. This appeared
to be the limit.        The door was then opened, and the wind stopped,
with the result that the time rose again to 12. More water was then
poured in until the needle was drowned to the depth of about half an
inch.     Under these conditions the time was 6J.
   It will    be seen, that while upon the unprepared surface the time
was nearly twice as great as in the interior, upon the purified surface
the time was somewhat less than in the interior.
   For the sake of comparison, precisely similar observations were
made upon the same day with substitution for water of methylated
alcohol.      Before the operation of wind the time was 5 ; after wind,
5 ; on repetition, still 5.        Nor with the aid of convection currents
could any reduction be effected.          When the needle was drowned, the
time rose to 7 J.         The alcohol thus presents, as Plateau found, a
great contrast with the unprepared water ; but comparatively little
with the water after treatment by wind and heat.
   An even more delicate test than the time of vibration is afforded
by the behaviour of the surface of the liquid towards the advancing
edge of the needle. In order to observe this, it is necessary to have
recourse to motes, but all superfluity should be avoided.             In a good
light  it  is often  possible to see a few  motes  without   any  special  dusting
over.       In my experience, an unprepared             water   surface     always

 1890.]            On the Superficial Viscosity       of   Water.               135
 behaves   in the manner described by Plateau ; that is, it takes part in
 rotation   of the needle, almost from the first moment. Under the
 action of wind a progressive change is observed.                After a time the
 motes do not begin their movement until the needle has described a
 considerable arc. At the last stages of purification, a mote, situated
 upon a radius distant 30° or 40° from the initial direction of the
needle, retains its position almost until struck ; behaving, in fact,
exactly as Plateau describes for the case of alcohol.                    I fancied,
however, that I could detect a slight difference between alcohol and
water even in the best condition, in favour of the former. With a little
                                                       "
experience it was     easy  to predict  the " time       from observations     upon
motes   ;  and it appeared that the last degrees of purification told
more upon the behaviour of the motes than upon the time of describ
ing the arc of 60°.        It is possible, however, that a different range
from that adopted might have proved more favourable in this respect.
    The special difficulties under which Plateau experimented are well
known, and appealed strongly to the sympathies of his fellow
workers ; but it is not necessary to refer to them in order to explain
the fact that the water surfaces that he employed were invariably
contaminated.        Guided by a knowledge of the facts, I have several
times endeavonred to obtain a clean surface without the aid of wind,
but have never seen the time less than 10. More often it is 12, 13, or
14.    It is difficult to decide upon the source of the contamination.
If we suppose that the greasy matter is dissolved, or, at any rate,
suspended in the body of the liquid in a fine state of subdivision, it is
rather difficult to understand the comparative permanence of the
cleansed surfaces.      In the case of distilled water, the condition will
usually remain without material change for several minutes. On the
other hand, with tap water (from an open cistern), which                     I have
often used, although there is no difficulty in getting a clean surface,
there is usnally a more rapid deterioration on standing.                  The pro
gressive diminution of the tension of well-protected water surfaces
observed by Quincke* is most readily explained by the gradual
formation of a greasy layer composed of matter supplied from the
interior, and present only in minute quantity ; although this view did
not apparently commend itself to Quincke himself.                 If we reject the
supposition     that  the   greasy    layer   is   evolved    from    the interior
of the liqnid, we must admit that the originally clean free surface,
formed as the liquid issues from a tap, is practically certain
 to receive contamination from the solid bodies with which it comes
 into contact.     The view, put forward hypothetically by Oberbeck,
that contamination is almost instantly received from the atmosphere
 is inconsistent with the facts already mentioned.
    Some further observations, made in the hope of elucidating this
                  * Poggendorff's ' Annalen,' vol. 160, 1877, p. 580.
    VOL. XLVIII.                                                           L

136                           Lord Rayleigh.                      [June  5,
question, may here be recorded.        First, as to the effect of soap, or
rather oleate of soda.     A surface of distilled water was prepared by
wind and heat until the time was 5£, indicating a high degree of
parity. The door being closed, so as to isolate the two parts of the
surface, and the wind being maintained all the while, a few drops of
solution of oleate were added to the water in the tail-piece.     With the
aid of gentle stirring, the oleate found its way, in a few minutes,
under the door, and reached the surface of the water in the well.
The time gradually rose to 13, 14, 15 ; and no subsequent treatment
with wind and heat would reduce it again below 12. In this case
there can be no doubt that the contamination comes from the interior,
and is quickly renewed if necessary ; not, however, so quickly that
the tension is constant in spite of extension or the surface would be
free from superficial viscosity.
   In like manner, the time upon the surface of camphorated distilled
water could not be reduced below 10, and the behaviour of motes
before the advancing needle was quite different to that observed
upon a clean surface.        A nearly saturated solution of chloride of
sodium could not be freed from superficial viscosity ; while, on the
other hand, an addition of £ per cent, of alcohol did not modify the
behaviour of distilled water.
   The films of grease that may be made evident in Plateau's ap
paratus are attenuated in the highest degree. In a recent paper* I
have estimated the thickness of films of olive oil competent to check
the movements of camphor fragments as from one to two micro-
millimetres ; but these films are comparatively coarse.       For example,
there was never any difficulty in obtaining from tap-water surfaces
upon which camphor was fully active without the aid of wind or
special arrangements.       I was naturally desirous of instituting a com
parison   between   the  quantities  necessary to check camphor move
ments and the more minute ones which could be rendered manifest
by Plateau's needle ; but the problem is of no ordinary difficulty. A
direct weighing of the contamination is out of the question, seeing
that the quantity of oil required in the well of the apparatus, even to
stop camphor, wonld be only J¥ milligram.
   The method that I have employed depends upon the preparation of
an ethereal solution of olive oil, with which clean platinum surfaces are
contaminated.     It may he applied in two ways. Either we may rely
upon the composition of the solution to calculate the weight of oil
remaining upon the platinum after evaporation of the solvent, or we
may determine the relative quantities of solution required to produce
the two sorts of effects.    In the latter case we are independent of the
precise composition       of the solution, and more especially of the
                               * Supra, p. 364.

1  890.]            On the Superficial      Viscosity   of  Water.             137
question whether the ether may be regarded as originally free from
dissolved oil of an involatile character.             In practice, both methods
hare been used.
    The results were not quite so regular as had been hoped, the
difficulty appearing to be that the oil left by evaporation upon
platinum was not completely transferred to the water surface when
the platinum was immersed, even- although the operation was per
formed slowly, and repeated two or three times.                      On the other
hand, there was no difficulty in cleansing a large surface of platinum
by ignition in the flame of a spirit lamp, so that it was absolutely
without perceptible effect upon the movement of the needle over a
purified water surface.
    The first solution that was used contained 7 milligrams of oil in
50 c.c. of ether.      The quantities of solution employed were reckoned
in drops, taken under conditions favourable to uniformity, and of
such dimensions that 100 drops measured 0'6 c.c.                   The following is
an example of the results obtained :         —   On April 25, the apparatus was
rinsed out and recharged with distilled water.                  Time = 13. After
purification of surface by wind and heat, b\, rising, after a consider
able interval, to 6. After insertion of a large plate of platinum,
recently heated to redness, time unchanged.                    A narrow strip of
platinum, upon which, after a previous ignition, three drops of the
ethereal solution had been evaporated, was then immersed, with the
result that the time was at once increased to 8^. In subsequent trials
two drops never failed to produce a distinct effect. Special experi
ments, in which the standard ether was tested after evaporation upon
platinum, showed that nearly the whole of the effect was due to the
oil purposely dissolved.
    The determination of the number of drops necessary to check the
movements of camphor upon the same surface seemed to be subject to
a greater irregularity.           In some trials 20 drops sufficed ; while in
others 40 or 50 drops were barely enough.                  There seems to be no
doubt that the oil is left in a rather unfavourable                     condition,*
very different from that of the compact drop upon the small
platinum surface of former experiments; and the appearance of the
platinum on withdrawal from the water often indicates that it is still
greasy.     Under these circumstances it is clearly the smaller number
that should be adopted ; but we are safe in saying that T'T of the oil
required to check camphor produces a perceptible effect upon the
 time in Plateau's experiment, and still more upon the behaviour of
 the surface before the advancing needle, as tested by observation of
 motes.     At this rate the thickness at which superficial viscosity
    * It should be stated that the evaporation of the ether, and of the dew which
 was often visible, was facilitated by the application of a gentle warmth.        i
                                                                         L 2

  138                           Lord Rayleigh.                     [June  5,
  becomes    sensible in Plateau's apparatus is about -j'g of a micro-
  millimetre, or abont -j^Vw °* *ne wave-length of yellow light.
     A tolerably concordant result is obtained from a direct estimate of
  the smaller quantity of oil, combined with the former results for
  camphor, which were arrived at under more favourable conditions.
  The amount of oil in two drops of the solution is about O001 7 milli
  gram.     This is the quantity which suffices to produce a visible effect
  upon the needle. On the large surface of water of the former experi
  ments the oil required to check camphor was about 1 milligram.         In
  order to allow for the difference in area, this must be reduced
  64 times, or to O016 milligram.     According to this estimate the ratio
  of thicknesses for the two classes of effects is about as 10 : 1.
     Very similar results were obtained from experiments with an
  ethereal solution of double strength, one drop of which, evaporated
• as before, upon platinum, produced a distinct effect upon the time
  occupied by the needle in traversing the arc from 90° to 30°.
     I had expected to find a higher ratio than these observations bring
  out between the thicknesses required for the two effects.       The ratio
  15  : 1 does  not give any  too much room   for the surfaces of  ordinary
  tap water, such as were used in the bath observations upon camphor,
  between the purified surfaces on the one side and those oiled surfaces
  upon the other, which do not permit the camphor movements.
     It thus became of interest to inquire in what proportion the film
  originally present upon the water in the bath experiments requires to
  be concentrated in order to check the motion of camphor fragments.
  This information may be obtained, somewhat roughly it is true, by
  dusting over a patch of the water surface in the centre of the bath.
  When a weighed drop of oil is deposited in the patch, it drives the
  dust nearly to the edge, and the width of the annulus is a measure
  of the original impurity of the surface.     When the deposited oil is
  about sufficient to check the camphor movements, we may infer that
  the original film bears to the camphor standard a ratio equal to that
  of the area of the annulus to the whole area of the bath. Observa
  tions of this kind indicated that a concentration of about six times
   would convert the original film into one upon which camphor would
  not freely rotate.
     Another method by which this problem may be attacked depends
   upon the use of flexible solid boundary.       This was made of thin
   sheet brass, and is deposited upon the bath in its expanded condition,
   so as to enclose a considerable area.      Upon this surface camphor
  rotates, but the movement may be stopped by the approximation           of
  the walls of the boundary.       The results obtained by this method
  were of the same order of magnitude.
     If these conclusions may be relied upon, it will follow that the
  initial film upon the water in the bath experiments is not a large

1890.]             On the Superficial    Viscosity of  Water.
multiple of that at which        superficial   viscosity tends to disappear.
At the same time, the estimate of the total quantity of oil which
must be placed upon a really pure surface in order to check the
movements of camphor must be somewhat raised, say, from 1*6 to
19 micro-millimetre.         It must be remembered, however, that on
account of the want of definiteness in the effects, these estimates are
¦necessarily somewhat vague.         By a modification of Plateau's appa
ratus, or even in the manner of taking the observations, such as
would increase the      extent of surface from which the film might be
accumulated before      the advancing edge of the needle, it would doubt
less be possible to      render evident   still more minute contaminations
than that estimated      above at one-tenth of a micro-millimetre.
     [Postscript, June 4. — In order to interpret with safety the results
obtained by Plateau,     I thought it necessary to follow closely his experi
mental arrangements ; but the leading features of the phenomenon
may be well illustrated without any special apparatus.          For this pur
pose, the needle of the former experiments may be mounted upon the
surface of water contained to a depth of 1 or 2 inches in a large flat
bath.      Ordinary cleanliness  being observed, the motes lying in the
area swept over by the needle are found to behave much as described
 by Plateau.      Moreover, the motion of the needle under the action of
the magnet       used to displace   it is decidedly sluggish.    In  order to
 purify the surface, a hoop of thin sheet brass is placed in the bath, so
 as to isolate a part including the needle.      The width of the hoop must
 of course exceed the depth of the water, aud that to an extent suffi
 cient to allow of manipulation without contact of the fingers with the
 water. If the hoop be deposited in its contracted state, and be then
 opened out, the surface contamination is diminished in the ratio of the
 areas.     By this simple device there is no difficulty in obtaining a
 highly purified surface, upon which motes lie quiescent, almost until
 struck by the oscillating needle. In agreement with what has been
 stated above, an expansion of three or four times usually sufficed to
 convert the ordinary water surface into one upon which superficial
 viscosity was tending to disappear.
      I propose to make determinations of the actual tensions of surfaces
 contaminated to various degrees ; but in the meantime it is evident
 that the higher degrees of purity do not imply much change of tension.
  Iu   the last experiment upon a tolerably pure surface, if we cause the
  needle to oscillate rapidly backwards and forwards through a some
  what large angle, we can clear away the contamination from a certain
  area.    This contamination will of course tend to return, but observa
  tion of motes shows that the process is a rather slow one.
      The smallness of the forces at work must be the explanation of the
   failure to clean the surface in Plateau's apparatus by mere expansion.

no                Mr. A. Schuster.        Experiments with          [June  5,
For this experiment the end wall was removed from the tail-piece
(fig. 3), and a large flexible hoop substituted.           By this means, it
was hoped that when the whole was placed in the bath it would be
possible, by mere expansion of the hoop, to obtain a clean surface in
the well.     The event provod, however, that the purification did not
proceed readily beyond the earlier stages, unless the passage of the
                                                                              '
contamination through the long channel of the tail-piece was facili-
tated by wind.]
V. " Experiments with Lord                Rayleigh's Colour Box."         By
       Arthur Schuster, F.R.S.              Received May 15, 1890.
    Lord Rayleigh described before the meeting of the British Associa
tion, in 1881,* a colour box in which artificial yellow is produced by
mixing a pure red and green, and this yellow is directly compared
to the yellow of the spectrnm.         Lord Rayleigh has given an account
 of certain peculiarities of vision observed in a number of persons, and
it seemed to me worth while to extend the enquiry to a greater
number of observers, and also,        if possible, to obtain some evidence as
 to the existence of smaller     differences than those described in Lord
 Rayleigh's paper.
    The instrument used was made according to Lord Rayleigh's
 second pattern, in which a double-image prism is interposed between
 the slit and collimator lens ; the prism which separates the light being
 a direct-vision prism.    For the detailed description of the instrument
 I must refer the reader to Lord Rayleigh's paper.
    My attention was in the first instance directed to prove or dis
 prove the existence of small differences in different persons.        It was
 necessary, therefore, only to take persons in whose observing powers
 I  could place some reliance, and, secondly, to multiply the number of
 observations of each individual, so as to obtain an idea of the degree
  of accuracy to which the observations could be trusted.         The instru
  ment was used in a fairly dark room, and the observer was asked to
  place the Nicol so as to obtain the required match. After the reading
  had been taken the Nicol was displaced and the observations repeated.
  Five separate readings were thus generally obtained, and occasionally
  more.   Often separate sets of observations were made for the right
  and left eye.   As, owing to imperfections of construction, the zero of
  the instrument did not remain constant, either myself or Mr. Hadley,
  one of the demonstrators in the Phyisical Laboratory, took a reading
  whenever observations were made.
     I have often compared my vision with Mr. Hadley's, and never
  detected any difference amonnting to more than 01 of a division of the
                         • ' Nature,"  Not.  17, 18' 1.

1890.]                 Lord RayleigKs Colour Box.                          141
scale of my instrument ; so that       I have taken oar colour matches as
equal, and referred all others to them, although, as will appear, we
do not quit© agree with the majority of people. In order to under
stand the numbers given in the following pages, it is necessary to
state that in the neighbourhood of normal vision a difference of one-
tenth of a division means a difference of about 2£ per cent, in the
ratio of intensities of red to green. I consider that the mean of five
readings of a practised observer should not differ by more than that
on different occasions.      If two good observers place the Nicol half a
division different from each other, then each should be able in his
own mind to be certain that the other's match is wrong.                    The
difference of a whole division is generally very obvious after a little
practice with the instrument.
   It appears that differences of between a half and whole division
are very common, so that there cannot be any doubt of the real
existence of small differences, possibly following, as far as the number
of observations allow us to say, the ordinary law for deviations from a
mean.     But the larger differences, such as Lord Rayleigh was the
first to observe, seem certainly to be more frequent than the distri
bution of small differences would lead us to expect. As has already
been stated, it seemed better in the first instance to confine myself
to a careful examination of a limited number of cases than to extend
the enquiry too much before I could form an estimate of the accuracy
which is to be expected from a casual observer.              I  have examined
seventy-five   :  of these three  proved   colour blind ; four,  of which three
belonged to the same family, showed the same peculiarity of vision as
Mr. Balfour and Professor J. J. Thomson, while one showed a large
difference in the opposite direction.
    In the following tables I shall call my own reading zero, and shall
take as the unit difference between myself and others one-tenth of a.
 division of the divided circle.     The first table gives the ratio of red to
 green   nsed  in  the  match,   corresponding to the stated differences of
 reading :—
                                     Table   I.
            -70           615                        + 2          0-82
            -60           437                       + 4           078
            -50           321                        + 6          0-74
            -40           241                        + 8          070
            -30           1-84                       + 10         0-67
            -20           1-42      t.
                                                     + 20         051
            -10           111                        + 30         039
             -8           105                        +40          0-29
             -6           1-00                       + 50          021
             -4           0-95                       + 60          0-15
             -2           090                        + 70          010
              ±0          0-86

142                  Mr. A. Schuster.        Experiment* with               [June  5,
    It will  be seen from this table that the proportion of red to green
 which   I  require to make an artificial yellow is 0'86. This number is
not comparable with those given by Lord Rayleigh for his own and
Mr. Balfour's vision, as everything depends on the particular green
which he uses to make the match.               I  was aiming in setting up the
 instrument to choose such a red and green as would without the Nicol
make a yellow, and perhaps took too much of a yellowish-green                      in
consequence.*        Table    II   exhibits  the   results   obtained    for  various
observers.       The means only of all observations taken at different"
times, and with both eyes, are given.
                                       Table  II.
                           Number of           Mean of         Mean difference
        Observer.           readings.          readings.         of readings.
             1                   6                 0                  10
             2                  17               -10                  23
             3                  10               + 1-5                5-3
             4                  25                 0                  1-9
             6                  12               -4-0                 4-4
             7                   5               + 3-0                3-4
             8                   5               -10                  2-8
             9                  20               -40                  1-8
           10                    5               -7-0                 2-2
           11                    5               + 2-0                8-6
           12                     7              + 3-3                2-0
           13                    5                 0                   1-0
           14                   15               -73                  2-3
           15                   15               +30                  2-7
           16                    6             -11-5                  0-9
           18                    5               -50                  3-6
           19                    5               -50                  4-0
           20                    5             -120                   20
           21                   20               -72                  31
           22                    5               -4-0                 2-8
           23                   12               -1-5                 4-3
           24                    5             -110                    1-6
           25                   10               +35                  2-9
           26                   20               -53                   1*8
           27                   20                 0                  13
           29                   18               + 1-2                20
   * [Note,  added May 23. — Since writing the above,    I have determined the wave
lengths  of  the colours selected, and was surprised to find how much more yellow
                      I
the green was than thought or intended ; the wave-length of the green which
was mixed with the red was about 5-620 x 10 ~6.        The rod was a full red near C,
the yellow about the sodium yellow.]

1890.J          Lord Rayleiglis Colour Box.
                      Table II— continued.
                 Number of        Mean of   Mean difference
      Observer.   readings.       readings.   of readings.
         30           23            -50            1-4
         31           14            -90            26
         32          10             -25            1-8
         33            8            -20            1-6
         84            9            -1-5           23
         35          10             -30            24
         36          10           -150             1-2
         37          20             -55            21
         38          10            -35             1-8
         39          10               0            26
        40           10           -10 0            21
         41          20               95           21
        42           26            -6-7            24
        43           10            -2-0            11
        44           10           -140             22
        45           20            -22             22
        47           10           -110             30
        48           10            -5-5            27
        49           10            -2-0            1-8
         51           10            -1-5           2-8
        52           10             -65            50
        53           10             -25            50
        54           10            -30             1-5
        55           10             -85            8-5
        56           10            -45             28
        57           10            -1-0            7-5
        58            10          -160             34
        59           10           -135             2-5
        60           10           -140             3-2
        61             5          -110             0-8
        62             5            +3-0           20
        03             8            -10            17
        64             5            -60            1-2
        65             5            -40            2-8
       67            15             -40            28
       68              5           -90             2-8
       69              5           -20             30
       71            10            -40             2-9
       73            10            + 1-0           11
       74            10            -30             30
       75              6           -50

144                Mr. A. Schuster.            Experiments       xoith          [J tine   5,
                               Table   II — continued.
                        Number of              Mean of            Mean difference
      Observer.         readings.              readings.            of readings.
          5                  20                  + 56-0                   5-8
         17                       5              +   330                  30
         28                  28                  -440                     8-3
         50                   10                 + 710                    7-4
         72                   10                 + 430                    2-5
         46 Colour blind.
         66    Colour blind.
         70    Colourblind.
   The first column in the above table gives the number which
identifies the observer, the second column the number of readings
taken, the third the mean difference between the observer and myself,
or Mr. Hadley. The fonrth column gives an idea of the consistency
of the same observer in reading.    It is the mean difference between
a single reading and the mean          of all the readings, negative differences
being counted as positive ones.            A    glance at the table shows that
this mean difference     generally
                            i.s                about two or three tenths of                a
division.
  Prom the results    of column      Table 3,              III
                                                 has been obtained.
Column    II gives the number of observers whose readings do not
differ by more than half a unit from the numbers given in column                           1.
Column    IIIgives the mean of three successive values of column II,
that row against which the number              is    placed being the middle of the
numbers whose mean      taken.
                            is
                                       Table     in.
              Column   I.                 n.                      ni.
                                         l                        07
                                           1                      1-7
                                                                  1-3
                                           0 3
                                                                  1-7
                                           2                      2- 1-
                                           3                      3 7
                                           2                      2-7
                                           3                      17
                                           0                      2-3
                                           4                      20
                                           2                      43
                                           7                      57
                                           7                      60

1890.]                   Lord Jiayleigh'a Colour Box.                        145
                             Tablo  III — continued.
                       T.                n.                 III.
                     -3                   4                 6-0
                     -2                    7                60
                     -1                    7                6-3
                       0                  5                 47
                     +  1                 2                 30
                     +2                   2                 27
                     + 3                  4                 23
                     +4                    1                 17
    The results of this table, in which the few observers showing large
differences are not included, is plotted in fig. 1, in which the numbers
in column      I  of the above table are taken as ordinates, and the
 numbers in column       III as abscisses.
                                      Fig.    1.
    We see at once that the greatest number of observers read between
 —  I and — 4. The curve falls rapidly on either side, but there are
more observers within the limits of the table apparently showing
 large negative than large positive differences.             Thus, for instance,
 taking   3  as  the  mean    value   of     all observers,   there was nobody
 amongst sixty-seven observers differing by eight-tenths or more of a
 division at the positive, while there were as many as ten differing by
 the same amount on the negative side.             If we were from the given
 curve to calculate the probability of such large differences, as shown
 by the five observers, 5, 17, 28, 50, and 72, we should get exceedingly
  small numbers ; this confirms Lord Rayleigh's statement, that diffe
  rences from normal vision do not seem to follow the law of errors.
  For differences less than one division of the scale the cnrve is not
  unlike the curve of errors, but not for the larger differences ; thus
  half the total nnmber of observers read within 3"5 units of the
  average.   If the difference from normal sight was to follow the law of

146                Mr. A. Schuster.     Experiments with            [June    5,
errors, we should only have one observer in 50,000 who would read
twenty-one units different from the rest. While counting the different
members of the same family only as one,            I have found three such
large   differences  among seventy-five,    and   Lord  Rayleigh found the
same number among        thirty observers. He also examined seven female
observers, none showing any decided difference from the mean.               In
the above table numbers 9, 23, 65, and 74 are women, and their           read
ings —4, — 1'5, —4, —3, are very consistent with each other ; on the
other hand, it must be noted, as a remarkable exception, that 72 is
also a woman; her husband has normal sight, but amongst three
sons two, viz., 5 and 17, show the same peculiarity.
   It is instructive to compare the readings of numbers 28 and 50 with
the ratios of intensities given in Table I. It will be seen that, while
28 requires about 2-8 times as much red as green to make yellow,
50 requires nearly five times as much green as red to produce yellow.
That the ratio of red to green required by one observer is thirteen
times as great as that required by the other.            How different will
compound colours look to these observers ! It seems remarkable,
however, that both agree in the particular wave-length which they
call yellow, and the actual sensation of pure colours seems therefore
to be the same for both.       It seems difficult to explain this fact in any
other way than that suggested by Professor Maxwell to account for
some peculiarities of his own eyesight, namely, by a selective absorp
tion in the yellow spot of the eye, which differs in different indi
viduals.     To judge from the diagram given in this paper, Maxwell
had, as compared with his wife, the same peculiarity of eyesight as
the different     observers mentioned by Lord Rayleigh and number
5 above    ;  this could be explained by greater absorption of green
in the yellow spot.         But, further, Maxwell's eyes presented an
opposite peculiarity for the rays between the green and violet, he
wanting less green to produce blue than Mrs. Maxwell. This
Maxwell tries to explain by more pronounced absorption of the blue
rays than of the green. I cannot quite follow him in this explanation,
because the greater absorption of blue does not seem to me to affect
its position on the colour diagram, but only the intensity of the
mixture produced by green and violet.            I can only account for this
second peculiarity of Maxwell's, that in his case the absorption of the
violet primary colour was stronger than that of the green.              If we
adopt the hypothesis that the different position of the pure colours in
the colour diagram of different observers is due to an absorption of
light in the media of the eye beiore it reaches the retina, we are at
liberty to assume that the sensation of yellow in all eyes is due to
an excitation of nerves sensitive to green and red respectively in a
fixed proportion.
   Direct experiments to determine the absorption in the yellow spot

1890.]                     Lord Rayleiglis Colour Box.                            147
of the eye have been made by Glan, and it seems to me of importance
to repeat and extend his observations.                    One point, especially, is
worth clearing np : in how far are the complementary colours the same
for different eyes ? As far as I can judge, according to the view
just explained, they should           be the same.*
    I  have paid some attention to the possibility of a change in the
reading of the same observer at different times ; but it is very
difficult to obtain decisive evidence in this respect. It is a curious
fact, however, that the difference in the reading of the same observer
at different times will differ more from each other than one would be
led to expect from the consistency of his differing readings taken the
same day. As this happens, however, chiefly with observers whose
accuracy I have reason to doubt on other grounds, little value can be
attached      to such differences.         It is possible that a careless observer
remembers from observation to observation on the same day what he
has called a match, thongh it may be a trifle too green or too red, and
in this way the readings may gain an appearance of too great consis
tency.      I  take, for instance, number 42, whose readings are charac
teristic in this respect.
                                                              Average difference
                                                                between each
                                Tfnmber of           Menn        reading and
         Date.                observations.        reaJing.    mean reading.
    Dec. 4, 1889                    5                 0              2-0
    Feb. 13, 1890                   5             -11                1 9
   April    23, 1890                8               -6               26
   May     6, 1890                  8             -10                3 1
    On December 4, amongst five readings, he never read lower than
 —4   ; while on February 13, he never read higher that —4.                  If I had
r«'ason to believe number 42 a careful observer, I should take this as
a proof of a change in his eyesight; I am afraid, however, no certain
conclusions can be drawn from his observations.                 But there are some
other cases      of marked     differences.
    I  have already stated that I have constantly compared my sight
with that of Mr. Hadley without being able to trace any decided
difference.
   The following are a few examples of readings taken at different
times with observers in whose judgment I can place reliance : —
   *
      [This is not quite correct, partly owing to the indefinite nature of what we
call white. What I meant to say is this : If six pure colours, p, q, r, t, t, u, are
related to each other by the equations ap + bq = cr + ds = et + fu, then a second
observer whose eyes only differed by a different, absorption in their media should
be able to match the six colours so as to obtain the equations a'p + b'q = c'r + d's
 = e't + fu.     If the resulting colour for the normal eye is white p and q, &c., are
complementary colours, but the resulting colour for the second observer would not
necessarily appear white to him.
                                     — May 23.]

348       Experiments with Lord RaylHgKs Colour Box.           [June  5,
   Number   2—
                March 4, 1889                          -2
                Jan. 20, 1890                            0
                April  23, 1890                        -1
   Number 4 —
                March 5. 1889                          +5
                May 6, 1890                            -3
   Number    9—
                March   6, 1889                        -4
                March   20, 1889                        -3
                April  25, 18sH)                        -2
                May   7, 1890                           -7
   Number    14 —
                March 6, 1889                           -7
                May 5, 1890                             -6
   Number    15 —
                March 6, 1889                           +1
                May 6, 1890                             +3
   Number 21 —
                 March 20, 1889                         -6
                 May 2, 1890                            -8
   Number 25 —
                 March 21, 1889                         +4
                 May 6, 1890                            +3
   Number     2C —
                 March 24, 1889                         -2
                 May 6, 1890                            -7
    Most of  these observations show no change, and are indeed remark
 ably consistent.    I   must except, however, number 4, who is a very
 trustworthy observer; and number 26 (Professor Dixon).           In the
 latter case, a change     seems almost  certain either in his eye or in
 mine. We both observe, however, as Clerk Maxwell has done, that
 the matches are not quite the same according as one looks straight at
 the coloured patches, or a little to one side ; this would support the
 view that the absorption in the yellow spot plays an important
 part.
    There is no evidence as to a difference in reading between the right
 end left eye, except in one case.      Generally speaking, the reading

1890.]                             Presents.                               149
taken with two eyes agrees very well.          In the case of one observer,
number 30, although no difference could be traced on November 27,
1889, the difference was half a division on May 7, 1890, and sufficient
for him to be satisfied that when he made a match with one eye it did
not appear a match     with the other.
                            Presents, June  5, 1890.
Transactions.
   Baltimore: — Johns Hopkins University.               Circulars.   Vol. IX.
        No. 80. 4to. Baltimore 1890.                          The University.
   Berkeley: —University of California.             Library   Contents-Index.
        Vol. I. 8vo. Berkeley 1889-90.                        The University.
   Cracow : — Academic des Sciences.         Bulletin International. Avril,
        1890. 8vo.      Cracovie 1890.                          The Academy.
   Dijon: — Academie des Sciences, Arts et Belles-Lettres. Memoires.
        3me Serie.     Tome II—   III  ; 4me Serie.    Tome I. 8vo. Dijon
        1874-89.                                                The Academy.
   Dublin : — Royal Society of Antiquaries of Ireland. Journal of the
        Proceedings.      Ser. 5. Vol. I. No. 1. 8vo.          Dublin 1890.
                                                                   The Society.
                —
   Güttingen : Königl. Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften.              Nachrich
        ten.    1889.   8vo.    Göttingen 1889.                    The Society.
   Hertford : — Hertfordshire Natural History Society and Field Club.
        Transactions. Vol. V. Part 8. 8vo. Hertford 1890.
                                                                   The Society.
              —
   Leipsic : Königl. Sächsische          Gesellschaft    der Wissenschaften.
        Abhandlungen.          Mathemat.-physisch.      Classe.     Band XV.
        No. 7-9 ; Ditto. Philolog.-historisch. Classe. Band XI. No. 6.
        4to. Leipzig 1889-90 ; Berichte. Mathemat.-physisch.            Classe.
        Band XLI.        No. 2-4 ; Ditto.        Philolog.-historisch. Classe.
        Band XLI. No. 4; Begister zu den Jahrgängen 1846-85 der
        Berichte und zu den Bänden I-XII der Abhandlungen der
        Mathemat-physisch. Classe. 8vo. Leipzig 1889-90.
                                                                   The Society.
              —
    London: British Association for the Advancement of Science.
         Report of the Fifty-niuth Meeting, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, 1889.
         8vo.   London 1890.                                  The Association.
      London Mathematical Society.           Proceedings.     Vol. XX. Nos.
         368-369.     8vo. London 1889.                            The Society.
      Marine Biological Association.           Journal.    New Ser. Vol. I.
         No. 3. 8vo. London 1890.                             The Association.
      Mineralogical Society.       The Mineralogical Magazine.         Vol. IX.
         No. 41. 8vo. London 1890.                                 The Society.

 150                                  Presents.                             \ June   5,
 Transactions (continued).
      Odontologieal
                  '      Society    of Great Britain.         Transactions. Vol.
         XXII.      No. 6. 8vo. London 1890.                           The Society.
      Photographic Society of Great Britain.                 Journal and Trans
         actions.    Vol.  XIV.     No.   7.   8vo.   London 1890.
                                                                      The Society.
      Royal College of Surgeons of England. List of the Transactions,
         Periodicals, and Memoirs in the Library.             8vo. London 1890.
                                                                      The College.
     Royal Meteorological          Society.     Quarterly Journal.         Vol. 15.
        No. 72. 8vo. iMwlon 1889.                                     The Society.
     Royal United Service Institution.               Journal.      Vol. XXXIV.
        No. 152 ; List of Members.              January, 1890.       8vo.     London
        1890.                                                     The Institution.
     Society of Biblical Archaeology. Proceedings. Vol. XII. Part 6.
        8vo. London 1890.                                             The Society.
     Victoria Institute. Journal of the Transactions.                 Vol. XXIII.
        No. 92.     8vo.   London     1890.                         lie   Insiitute.
   Turin : — R. Accademia delle Scieuze. Atti. Vol. XXV. Disp.
        6-8. 1889-90. 8vo. Torino ; Osscrvazioni Meteorologiche fatte
        nell' anno 1888 all' Osservatorio della R. Universita, calcolate
        dal G. B. Rizzo. 8vo.          Torino 1890.                The Academy.
Observations    and Reports.
  London : — Local       Government       Board.      Report of the        Medical
        Officer for 1888.     8vo. London 1889.             The Medical      Officer.
    Meteorological       Office.      Meteorological Observations            at   the
        Foreign and Colonial Stations of the Royal Engineers               and the
        Army Medical Department,            1852-86.    4to.    London 1890.
                                                                        The Office.
  Lyme    Regis:   — Rousdon     Observatory.     Meteorological     Observations
       for the Year 1889.        4to. London 1890.
                                                        Mr. Cuthbert E. Peek.
  Sacramento    : — California     State   Mining    Bureau.       Ninth Annual
       Report of the State Mineralogist. 8vo. Sacramento 1890.
                                                                     The Bureau.
             —
  Sydney : Department of Mines, N.S.W. Annual Report for the
       Year 1888.      Folio. Sydney 1889.             The Minister for Mines.
          —
  Turin : Osservatorio       della   Regia Universita.        Bollettino. ADno
       XXII. Oblong 4to. Torino 1889 ; Effemeridi del Sole e della
       Luna per l'Anni 1889-90. 8vo. Torino 1888-89. And three
       excerpts.                                               The Observatory.
 Washington     : — United    States   Geological   Survey.      Seventh Annual
       Report. 1885-86.          4to.   Washington 1888.             The Survey.

 1890.]                       Deferred Papers.                                151
Journals.
   Canadian     Record of Science.          Vol. IV. No. 2. 8vo. Montreal
         1890.                             Natural History Society, Montreal.
   Nature    Notes.   No.  5.   8vo.     London      1890.
                                                                     The Editors.
   Revista do Observatorio.        Anno V.         No.  4.  8vo.   Rio de Janeiro
         1890.                                                  The Observatory.
   Revue    Medico-Pharmaceutique.             Annee     3.  No. 4. 4to. Con
        stantinople 1890.                                             The Editor.
   Stazioni Sperimentali       Agrarie      Italiane. Vol. XVIII. Fasc. 4.
        8vo.    Asti 1890.                          R. Stazione Enologica, Asti.
Thirty-six     Carte de Visite   Photographs of Fellows of the Royal
     Society.                                             Messrs. Maull and Fox.
                                June    12, 1890.
      Sir G.   GABRIEL STOKES,             Bart., President, in the Chair.
   Sir Benjamin Baker, Mr. R. H. M. Bosanquet, Mr. S. H. Burbury,
Mr. W. Gardiner, Dr. A. S. Lea,            Major P. A. MacMahon, Professor
S. U. Pickering, Mr. I. Roberts, Mr. J. J. H. Teall, and Dr. R. T.
Thorne were admitted into the Society.
   The Presents received were laid on the table, and thanks ordered
for them.
   The following Papers were read         : —
I. " On a Re-determination of the principal Line in the Spec-
      tram of the Nebula in Orion, and on the Character of the
      Line." By William Huggins, D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S., and
      Mrs. HUGGINS.       Received March 20, 1890.
                             [Publication    deferred.]
II. " Note on the Photographic Spectrum of the Great Nebuhi
      iu Orion." By William Huggins, D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S.,
       and Mrs. Huggins.        Received April          16, 1890.
                             [Publication    deferred.]
   TOL. XLVUI.                                                           SI

152                      Prof. A. P. W. Thomas.                   [June 12,
III.    " On a new Group of Lines in the Photographic Spectrum
        of Sirius." By William Huggins, D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S.,
        and Mrs. HUGGINS.       Received April 25, 1890.
                             [Publication defefi-ed.]
IV. "Preliminary         Note on the Development of the Tuatara
         {Spkenodon punctatum)."        By Professor A. P. W. Thomas,
        M.A., F.L.S., F.G.S., University College, Auckland, N.Z.
        Communicated by Professor E. Ray LANKESTER, F.R.S.
         Received May 19, 1890.
      A grant was made by the Royal Society in the year 1884 to Pro
 fessor J. T. Parker, of Dunedin, for the study of the development of
 stpteryx, Sphenodon and Callorhynchns.               As Sphenodon does not
 occur near Dnnedin, but is found chiefly on outlying islands belong
 ing to the province of Auckland, at the opposite end of the colony,
 Professor Parker invited me to join him in the investigation of this
 form.
      We gathered from what had been written on the natural history
 of the tuatara, as well as from oral information obtained from those
 who were best acquainted with the New Zealand fauna, that the
 month      of February was probably the         time   at which the tuatara
 bred.
      We therefore started from Auckland at the beginning of February,
  1885,   for what appeared the most promising hunting-ground — the
  island of Karewa, some ten miles from Tamanga, in the Bay of Plenty-
  Mr. A. Reisohek, a naturalist well known by his researches on the
  natural history of New Zealand, who had already had opportunities
  of observing the tuatara, was good enough to accompany us.
      The island of Karewa is situated some four miles from the main
  land ; it is little more than a rock which rises with precipitous sides
  high above the sea. At one spot only can a landing be effected, as
  the island is exposed to the ocean swell rolling in from the open
   Pacific, whilst the shores are for the greater part formed by unscal
  able cliffs of rhyolitic rock.      Our first attempt at landing was frus
   trated by the swell, but a day later a second attempt was successful.
       The vegetation on the island is largely composed of small karaka
   trees and thickets of coprosma.        The light, loose soil between the
   roots of trees and the rocks is mined by countless burrows, in which
   live mutton-birds {Pujfinus tennirostris) and tuataras.
       On the " Chicken Islands the tuataras have been described by
                                    "
   Mr. Reischek as living with certain other sea-birds, namely, another

1890.]                On the Development       of   the  Tualara.               153
species     of Pwffinus (P. gavius) and two species of Procellaria. ThiB
                       1
has been cited in Nature
                                 '* as an interesting case of commensalism,
and it is there stated that the birds
                                                 " live in holes
                                                                    dug out by the
tuataras and keep apparently on the best terms with them."                     It is
stated that the tuatara generally lives on the right and the sea-bird
oh the left of the inner chamber.
    I believe it is quite a mistake to suppose that any friendly relation
whatever exists between the tuataras and the birds, aud that here,
as in the somewhat similar case of the prairie dog and rattlesnake,
the idea of friendliness is quite out of place. It is true that the tuatara
¦sometimes       makes nse of the burrows of the mutton-bird (though I
have never found a tuatara living in the same burrow as a mutton-
bird), but it cannot be said that the two species ever live on more
favourable terms than those of mutual toleration.                At one time I kept
two kiwis in a large house with           a  number     of  tuataras, and a tuatara
would at times shelter itself in the same box or corner as a kiwi —
 the two never attempting to tight, the tuatara hiding itself under
the kiwi as it would do under a stone, whilst the kiwi seemed not to
notice its presence.       The tuatara seems to enter the burrow of the
 mutton-bird just as it would shelter itself in any other hole in the
 ground.
     In any case, the tuatara must be an untrustworthy associate, for
 or four occasions I have seen or captnred tuataras with young mutton-
 birds in their mouths.        It is probably a truer view of the situation
 to suppose that the chance of          getting a nestling renders the burrows
 of the     mutton-bird more attractive to the tuatara.
     Dr. Giinther, in the absence of personal observation, supposed that
 the tuatara was incapable of burrowing.              It is, however, certain that
 it can burrow well in such light soil as is found on Karewa, and
 even in the clay soil on which my lizard-houses                   are situated the
 animals have made burrows fully two feet in length, in which they
  are completely hidden.        Not all the lizards, however, are so indus
  trious; most of them have contented themselves with the artificial
  burrows, in the shape of long wooden boxes and drain pipes, with
  which they have been provided.
      We spent some days camping on the island and captured a number
  of tuataras, but searched in vain for eggs, though we opened up many
  burrows in the hope of finding them.                The smallest tuatara found
  was 4-9 inches in length.          Not finding eggs, we dissected several
  tuataras,    thinking that the condition of the ovaries might tell us
  whether we were too early or too late in the breeding season, but the
  dissection revealed no eggs at all approaching maturity.
      We took away from the island a number               of tuataras, hoping that
     *                                '
        October 19, 1882.   See also    Transactions   of the New Zealand Institute,'
   vol. 14, p. 274.
                                                                          M 2

 154                        Prof. A. P. W. Thomas.                      | Jane  12,
 they would breed in captivity.          Some of these were taken by Pro
 fessor Parker to Dunedin, a rather larger nnmber being kept by me in
 Auckland, as it was thought that the warmer climate of the northern
 part of the colony would be more favourable.
    Up to the beginning -of January, 1886, no eggs had been obtained
 from my tuataras, and, as regards the lizards I then possessed, any
 such hope was futile, for      I shortly afterwards discovered that all my
 tuataras (twenty-nine in number) were males. Thinking that our
visit the previsus summer had been too late in the season, I deter
mined to make another expedition to Karewa, this time at my own
expense.     Professor Parker was unable to join me, owing to the great
distance of Dunedin from the spot ; he was, moreover, engaged in
 working at the development of the kiwi. From this date, therefore,
the whole of the work fell into my hands.            I spent three or four days
at the beginning of January in camp alone on Karewa ; but, although
 a month earlier in the season than on the occasion of the previous
visit, I was again unsuccessful in procuring a single egg of the
tuatara.
    I  made, however,     a step in advance by discovering the' external
differences between the sexes. We had been assured by those familiar
with the tuatara that there was no difference in the external charac
ters of the sexes, and this statement seemed to be borne out by what
we could learn from the literature of the subject. Thus, Dr. Newman,
the latest writer on the subjeet, said* : " The males are so like the               •
females that they have not yet been distinguished with certainty."
    " The male tuatara has no special strongly marked tints, no
                                                                            special
personal attraction ; and, unlike the males of several other species
of lizards, are not much, if at all, bigger than the females. The
absence of special sexual attributes is perhaps due . . ."
    On dissecting and carefully comparing a number of tuataras, I
found that the current statements were not correct. There need
seldom be any difficulty in distinguishing the sexes ; the male is much
larger, and has the crests on neck and back far more strongly de
veloped.    In the fully adult male, the crests with their white spines
are very conspicuous ; in the female, the crests are low, and the spines
are reduced to a row of white points along the back.                The male, too,
is of more robust build, its coloration is somewhat brighter, and it is
more pugnacious.        During the breeding season the crests in the male
become at times turgid and swollen, the spines standing stiffly np,
and giving the animal a much more antique and grotesque appear
ance. It must be noted, however, that a good deal of variation
occurs in both the tints and brightness of colour in both sexes, and
the spines are larger in some females than in others.
    The discovery of the external characters of the sexes showed me
              * ' Transactions New Zealand Institute,'
                                                       vol. 10, p. 225.

1890.]              On the Development     of the Tuatara.             1 55
that all the tuataras     I   had kept for the past year (twenty-nine in
number)    were   males.     This  arose chiefly from the fact that males
are more easily obtained than females ; bat it is possible that our
desire to obtain     the largest, most vigorous, and fully adult animals
for  breeding accounts in part for our having retained only males for
breeding purposes.
   On the occasion of this second visit I secured as many females as I
could, but found more difficulty in obtaining females than males, so
      I
that set a number of males at liberty as being superfluous.            The
apparently greater abundance of the males is perhaps due to the
females seeking concealment more than the1 other sex ; at any rate,        I
am led to suggest this from the observation of my tuataras kept in con
finement.    The instinctof concealment would, of course, be of special
value to a female laden with eggs.
                              I
   Notwithstanding that now possessed a dozen pairs of tuataras, no
eggs were obtained the following summer. The lizards had been kept
in large houses and were well cared for, and appeared in good health,
but would not breed. Capitivity would seem to interfere with their
reproductive powers, an effect which would hardly be anticipated with
animals of so sluggish a nature.
   I could only refer their sterility in confinement to a change in some
of the conditions of life consequent on captivity, and endeavouring,
therefore, to make their surroundings approximate more closely to
the natural ones,    I  had still larger houses constructed, and extensive
runs on the open ground enclosed.
   It was not, however, till January, 1889, that eggs were obtained,
and even then some of them were infertile.          Weary of the constant
watching of the lizards in previous summers, I took a short holiday
at the New Year; and during an absence of five or six days a female
lizard died, but was not notieed by the attendant in charge. On
my return I found that it' had- contained' twelve fully formed eggs;
they had, however, begun to putrefy. A second female laid ten eggs,
which proved infertile. A third, which promised well, died from in
ability to lay its eggs.     It was closely watched, and dissected within
an hour of   its death.     The   oviducts contaiued four and five eggs re
spectively, fully formed and ready for laying. From these eggs were
obtained a number of embryos at various stages' of development, from
a stage equal to a two days' chick up to a stage shortly before hatch
ing. This year     I   hoped to obtain a further supply of embryos, but
only one female has laid, and her- eggs were infertile.
   The eggs of the tuatara are oval in form, both ends being of equal
diameter, and vary in length from 2-5 to 3"35 cm. The' egg-shell is
probably much like that of other oviparous lizards, being tough, flexible,
and very elastic; it contains a vaiying amount of carbonate of lime.
The eggs dry and shrivel with great readiness when exposed to the

156             Dr. F. Semon.         On  the  Position of       the  [June  12,
air, and must, therefore,      be kept in damp surroundings.             On the
other   hand,  excess   of  moisture    encourages       the    growth of micro
organisms in the mucus with which the eggs are frequently covered
when laid, and such foreign growths tend to the destruction of the
contents.
   On the whole, the general features of the development are closely
similar to those in other lizards ; I propose, therefore, to reserve the
details until a complete account can be given.             I may, however, men
tion that the pineal eye       becomes    a  prominent feature at an early
stage. When pigment is deposited in the skin, an oval spot is left, free
from it over the eye, and throagh this the dark pigment of the retina
shows clearly. Spencer* has stated that there is in Sphenodon very little
external trace of the pineal eye.       This is true of the adult, but in the
recently hatched tuatara the pineal eye still shows as a dark spot
through the translucent skin over the parietal foramen. This I
have been able to observe even in a tuatara 8 inches in length.             But
as the tuatara grows older the skin over the pineal eye becomes more
opaque, and though in some individuals the scantier development of
the pigment over the parietal foramen affords a feeble indication of
the position of the eye, yet in others the pigment is deposited there
as elsewhere, so that all external trace of the eye is finally lost.
V. " On the Position of the Vocal Cords in Quiet Respiration of
      Man, and on the Reflex-Tonus of their Abductor Muscles."
      By Felix Semon, M.D., F.R.C.P., Assistant Physician in
      charge of the Throat Department of St. Thomas's Hospital,
      and Laryngologist to the National Hospital for Epilepsy
      and Paralysis, Queen Square.                  Communicated       by Pro
      fessor Victor     Horsley,     F.R.S. Received May 25, 1890.
                                  (Abstract.)
   The investigation which forms the subject of this paper was under
taken with a view of settling, if possible, the moot question whether
in man the larynx during quiet respiration plays an active rdle or not.
and, if the former, what is its function ?
   For this purpose the author has examined, by means of graduated
mirrors, the size of the glottis during quiet respiration in fifty adult
trained healthy persons, and, after death, in twenty-five adult bodies.
The method of the examination and the precautions necessary to
guard against possible fallacies are fully described in the paper.            A
comparison of the measurements thus obtained shows that in less
than 20 per cent, the vocal cords during quiet respiration perform
              *  '
                   Quart. Journ. Microsc. Science,'  vol. 87, p. 176.

1890.]          Vocal Cords   in Quiet Respiration in Man,   fyc.         157
rhythmical movements synchronous with inspiration and expiration,
and that in more than 80 per cent, the glottis in both sexes forms
daring quiet respiration an isosceles triangle, 2 — 3 times as large on
the average as that representing the cadaveric glottis.            Under all
circumstances the minimum size observed during life is larger than
the maximum seen after death.
     Additionally corroborative literary and experimental            evidence
(from experiments       on  animals) is adduced, showing  that the  glottis in
man during quiet respiration is considerably wider open than after
death.
     The position of the vocal cords during quiet respiration, therefore,
represents neither a state of inaction of their antagonistic adductor
 and abductor muscles nor a condition of equilibrium between them.
 It must necessarily be the result of actual muscular contraction, and
 must     represent  either simultaneous activity of both the adductorH
 and abductors,      with preponderance of the latter ; or, secondly, some
 degree of activity on the part of the latter alone, the adductors
 being not at all in a state of functional activity.
     Prior to discussing the question which of these two possibilities
 corresponds to the actual facts, the author investigates the cause of
 the difference found to exist between the conditions observed during
 life and after death.       He draws attention to the fact that the larynx
 serves two functions, in a certain sense antagonistic to each other,
 viz., those of respiration aud phonation.         For the purposes of the
 fanner it is indispensable that the lumen of the air-tubes should be
  wide enough to admit of the ingress and egress of the quantity of air
  necessary for breathing purposes; for those of the latter, that an appn-
  ratus shonld be interpolated within the air-tubes which would admit
  of a complete juxtaposition of the voice-producing organs.
      It is then shown by another series of comparative measurements
  that by the interpolation of the vocal apparatus (which for reasons
  derived from comparative anatomy must be considered to be a highly
  specialised addition to the respiratory system) within the air-passages
  their narrowest part is further reduced, when the vocal cords are at
  perfect rest (" cadaveric position "), to less than one-third of its
  natural area ; and, again, by a review of experimental and pathological
  facts, that a reduction of the glottis to this cadaveric size involves,
   upon the commencement of any effort, however small, some alteration
   in the type of respiration.
       From these facts the conclusion is drawn that the interpolation of
   the phonatory within the respiratory apparatus had to be counter
   balanced by some arrangement which supplied the minimum of space
   compatible with the ingress and egress of that amount of air into the
   lower air- passages which is required for the purposes of what we call
    normal   quiet respiration.

             Vocal Cords in Quiet Respiration in Man,                       12,
158                                                          fyc.   [June
    This arrangement could consist either in a rhythmical opening of
the glottis synchronous with each inspiration, or hi a tonic dilatation
of the glottic space during both phases of respiration.
     It having been shown that, though both these alternatives are
actually met with, the latter is much more representative of the
participation of the larynx in quiet respiration of man than rhythmic
movements, it remained to be investigated, as previously mentioned,
whether this tonic widening represents a state of tonic innervation of
both the glottis-openers and glottis-closers, with preponderance of .the
former, or, on the other hand, a tonic innervation of the glottis-
openers alone.
     This question is discussed at length, and from anatomical, physio
logical, pathological, and experimental         reasons the conclusion        is
arrived at that the glottis-openers (posterior crico-arytronoid muscles)
ahme are, during life, in a state of semi-tonic contraction.
     The only remaining question, viz., whether this tonus is automatic
or reflex, is answered, on the basis of experimental evidence, to the
effect that in all probability the tonus of the abductor muscles is of a
reflex character, and that the impulses acting upon their ganglionic,
 i.e., bulbar, centres, are mainly, though not exclusively, conducted
along the pneumogastric nerves.          The experiments upon which this
 conclusion is based (division of the pneumogastric nerves below the
 points from which the recurrent laryngeal nerves are given off), and
 which were kindly performed for the author by Professor Victor
 Horsley, are communicated in full in the paper.
      The final conclusions arrived at by the author are as follows : —
      1. The glottis in man is wider open during quiet respiration (in
  spiration and expiration) than after death or after division of the
  vagi or recurrent laryngeal nerves.
      2. This wider opening during life is the result of a permanent activity
  of the abductors of the vocal cords (posterior               crico-arytaenoid
  muscles), which therefore belong not merely to the class of accessory,
  but of regular respiratory, muscles.
      3. The activity of these muscles is due to tonic impulses, which
  their centres receive from the neighbouring respiratory centre in the
  medulla oblongata.      It is very probable that these impulses rhythmi
  cally proceed to the respiratory centre from the stimulation of certain
  afferent fibres contained mainly, but not exclusively, in the trunks of
  the pneumogastric nerves, and that they are in the respiratory centre
  changed into tonic impulses. The regular activity of the abductors of
  the vocal cords during life, therefore, belongs to the class of reflex
   processes. The permanent half-contraction of these muscles, in which
   form their tonic innervation is manifested, can be further increased,
  in concord with the general laws of the mechanism of respiration, by
  either volition or other reflex influences.

 1890.]     Excitation  of Motor  Cortex, fyc, in Orang Outang.        159
   4.  In  spite of their extra-innervation, the abductors of the vocal
cords are physiologically weaker than their antagonists.
   5. These antagonists, the adductors of the vocal cords, have pri
marily nothing at all to do with respiration, and ordinarily serve the
function of phonation only. Their respiratory functions are limited
to —
   (a.) Assistance in the protection of the lower air passages against
the entry of foreign bodies.                             •
   (6.) Assistance in the modi6ed and casual forms of expiration
known as cough and laughing.
VI. " A    Record of the Results obtained by Electrical Excitation
      of  the so-called Motor Cortex and Internal Capsule in an
      Orang Outang (Simia satyrus)." By CHA.RLES E. BEEVOR,
      M.D., F.R.C.P., and Victor Horsle'y, B.S., F.R.S. (From
      the Laboratory of the Brown Institution.)                 Received
      June    5, 1890.
                                 (Abstract.)
   Having been engaged for     some time  in investigating the representa
tion of motor function in the cortex of the bonnet monkey, we
thought it advisable to perform the same in an anthropoid as likely
thereby to gain a closer insight into the modes of representation in
man.
   We first describe the peculiarities noticeable in the configuration of
 the convolutions in the orang.
   As in the bonnet monkey, after narcotisation with ether, we
divided the cortex into squares of 2 millimetres side, and excited the
 same   with minimal stimuli from the secondary coil of an induc-
 torium.
   General Results. — The mode of representation of motor function
 was found to be highly specialised.     The general plan was identical
with that seen in the bonnet monkey in that the representation of
 each segment and part of the body in the orang was arranged in
 the same order as that according to which we found the representa
tion of the primary movements to be grouped in the macacquo
monkey.
   In addition to this, the areas for the representation of the different
parts of the body we found not to be continuous with each other, but
that between the areas of representation (for instance, of the face and
 the upper limb) there were regions of inexcitable cortex showing
 a degree of differentiation not obtained in the lower monkey.
   A  further remarkable evidence of specialisation was noticeable in

160                 Drs. S. Martin and D. Williams.                    [June   12,
the fact that excitation of any one point elicited rarely more than one
movement and only of one segment, e.g., simple flexion of the elbow.
Consequently, any sequence of movement or march was conspicuously
infrequent.
    Finally, the character of each movement and its localisation              was
recorded.
    After the cortex had been removed, we proceeded to stimulate the
fibres of the internal capsule, and the results obtained confirmed
those obtained from the bonnet monkey, and at the same time showed
the relative position of the cortical areas.
    The internal capsule was exposed by removing half of one hemi
 sphere by a horizontal section ; the outlines of the basal ganglia were
 then transferred to paper rnled with squares of 1 millimetre, and the
 resulting movement obtained by stimulating each of these squares
 contained    in the internal capsule was recorded.              The movements
 obtained correspond generally with the results which we have in
 another paper presented to the Royal Society and read on December 12,
 1889.
 VII. " A further Note         on the Influence of Bile and its Consti
       tuents on Pancreatic Digestion." By Sidney Martin, M.D.,
       Pathologist to the Middlesex Hospital, British Medical
       Association Research Scholar, and Dawson Williams, M.D.,
       Assistant Physician to the East Loudon Hospital for
        Children, Shadwell.         Communicated by E. A. Schafer,
        F.R.S.    (From the Physiological Laboratory, University
        College, London.) Received June 9, 1890.
                        Ox Bile and Pancreatic Extract.
     In a previous communication* we have pointed out that in the pig
  the presence of bile or bile salts hastens the digestion of starch by
 pancreatic extract, the amount of dextrine and of sugar being con
  siderably and proportionately increased.            The same holds good for
  ox bile salts and extract of ox pancreas, so far at least as the increase
  in the amount of sugar is concerned, and for human bile and pan
  creatic  extract  (pig's).     Experiments were conducted in the same
  manner as those with pig's secretions.               In one experiment four
  vessels, A, B, C, D, containing 100 c.c. distilled water in which
  2 grams of starch had been boiled, were taken.             To B 2 per cent., and
  to C 4 per cent., of ox bile salts were added and dissolved.               Equal
  quantities  of glycerine   extract  of pancreas    were   added  to A, B, and  C,
                         * '
                             Koy. Soc. Proc./ vol. 45, p. 358.

 1890.]      On  the Influence    of Bile  on Pancreatic Digestion.        161
and the    four vessels   kept at   a temperature    of 40° C.   At the end of
seven minutes     there was a marked difference          between A and B ai:d
C   in their reaction to       a  solution of iodine   :  A  gave a deep bluf-
purple,   B and C     a red-purple.       At  the end of thirteen minutes C
gave a   faint red colour, B    a red-purple,   while A gave the same purple
colour as    after seven minutes.        No    change occurred in D.      The
solutions were then boiled and the amount of sugar in A, B, and C
estimated as dextrose by Fehling's method : — A contained 0'526 per
cent.,  B 0 049 per cent., and C 0"675 per cent.
   The experiment was varied by using an active powdered pig's pan-
creatin, manufactured by Savory and Moore. Four vessels were used,
each   containing   50 c.c.  of distilled water in which 1 gram of starch
had been boiled.     To B    1 per cent, and to C 2 per cent, of ox bile salts
were added and dissolved.         To A, B, and C, pancreatin 0'15 gram was
added ; D was reserved as a control.            The mixture was digested for
seven minutes in a water-bath at 45° C. ; at the end of this time A
stvnck a blue-purple colour with iodine, B a dirty red-purple, and C
gave only a trace of red colour.         The amount of dextrose was esti
mated by Fehling's method with the following result : — A contained
0-3846 per cent., B 071429 percent., and C 0 833 per cent.
   Ox bile salts and human bile have, therefore, the same property as
pig's bile and bile salts ; they augment the amylolytic action of the
pancreatic amylopsin on starch.
   Bile salts consist of a mixture,         in varying proportions, of the
alkaline (chiefly Bodium) salts of taurocholic and glycocholic acid. In
human bile, and that of most mammals, as well as in birds and
amphibians, tanrocholates are most abundant; in the pig,glycocholates.
Experiments were therefore made separately with glycocholate and
taurocholate of soda.
   Taurocholate of Soda. — The salt used was a commercial product
aud contained      some bile pigment.         Four vessels, each containing
100 c.c. of distilled water in which 2 per cent, of starch had been
boiled,  were taken   : to  A  1 gram, to B 2 grams, to C 3 grams, and to
D  4  grams of the taurocholate were added ; 0'8 gram pancreatin was
then introduced into each, and the mixture digested at a temperature
of 37° for a quarter of an hour.         Tested by the colour struck with
solution of iodine, D had been more changed than C, C than B, and
B than A.      The amount of dextrose estimated by Fehling's method
was A 0 869 per cent., B 10 per cent., C 105 per cent., and D 1 11
per cent.    In another experiment the effect of 1 and of 3 per cent, of
the taurocholate were contrasted with each other and with the effect
of pancreatin alone.        Digestion was continued for ten minutes at
a temperature of 40 — 41° C, and the mixture then boiled ; that con
taining no taurocholate contained 0-909 per cent, dextrose, that con
taining 1 per cent, of teurocholate contained 1111 per cent, dextrose,

                    Drs. S. Martin and D. Williams.              [June  12,
and that to which 3 per cent, of taurocholate        had been added con
tained 1'2424 per cent, dextrose.
   Olycocholic Acid. — The addition of pure glycocholic acid in the
proportion of 0'5 per cent, arrested digestion of starch by pancreatin ;
probably because of the acidity of the mixture.
   Glycocholate           —
                 of Soda. A weighed quantity of pure glycocholic acid
was dissolved in distilled water and neutralised with anhydrous
carbonate of sodium.      Four vessels, each containing an equal quantity
of distilled water in which I per cent, of starch had been boiled, were
taken : to B 1 per cent, of glycocholic acid by weight neutralised
with Na2COs, and to C 2 per cent, of glycocholic acid neutralised by
the same salt were added. Equal quantities of pancreatin were added
to A, B, and C ; D being reserved as a control.         The mixtures were
digested for seven minutes at 37° to 38° C.        The colour struck with
with iodine solution by C was then red, by B purple-red, and by A
purple.    Digestion was then stopped by boiling and the quantity of
dextrose estimated by Fehling's method : A contained 0'357 per cent.,
B 0-476 per cent., C 0*588 per cent.
   Glycocoll, Leuein, and Tyrosin. — Glycocholic acid is formed by the
conjunction of glycocoll and cholalic acid, glycocoll itself being amido-
acetic acid.     Leucin and tyrosin, the end-products of pancreatic
digestion, are also amido-acids, leucin being amido-caproic acid, and
tyrosin, oxyphenyl-amido-propionic      acid.    Glycocoll was found to be
without any effect upon the pancreatic digestion of starch.
   Leucin appeared to interfere to some extent with pancreatic diges
tion of starch ; thus, in one experiment, in which 0-5 per cent, of pure
lencin was added to a starch mixture and digested with pancreatin
for twelve minutes, the amount of sugar estimated as dextrose was
0 o26 per cent., while the amount in a similar mixture digested for
the same time without leucin was 0645 per cent.
   Tyrosin also appeared to interfere slightly with pancreatic digestion
of starch.     Thus, in one experiment three vessels were taken, each
containing 100 c.c. of distilled water in which 1 gram of starch had
been boiled ; to flask B 0'05 gram of pure tyrosin and to flask C 01
gram tyrosin were added ; the three mixtures — A, to which no tyrosin
 was added, B, and C — were then digested for nine minutes with equal
quantities of pancreatin.      At the end of five minutes the colour
struck with iodine solution varied, A giving a reddish-purple, C and
D a bluish-purple ; at the end of eight minutes the colour with A
was almost pure red, with B and C still a bluish-purple.               The
quantity   of  sugar estimated  as dextrose   by  Fehling's method  was  as
          —
follows : A 0 383 per cent., B 0'345 per cent., and C 0-333 per
 cent.
   Carbonate of Sodium. — Carbonate of sodium, when present in the
proportion of 0 25 per cent, and over, retards pancreatic digestion of

 1890.]      On the Influence     of Bile  on Pancreatic Digestion.       163
starch.     By experiments conducted as those above detailed, we have
found that this retardation occurs also in the presence of bile salts,
although it is not so great as with the carbonate alone.         In one expe
riment four vessels were taken, each containing distilled water in which
2 per cent, starch had been boiled, and 1 per cent, bile salts subse
quently added and dissolved, to B 025 per cent. NaoC03, to C 0'5 per
cent. NagCOg, and to D 1 per cent. NajC03.               The mixtures were
digested with equal quantities          of pancreatin for nine minutes at
39° C, boiled, and neutralised.        The amount of dextrose as estimated
by Fehling's method, was : — In A 0-83 per cent. ; in B 0'55 per cent. ;
in C 0-492 per cent. ; in D 0'3773 per cent. Even in the presence of
an excess of carbonate of sodium, however, the addition of bile salts
does favour the progress of pancreatic digestion of starch, as shown by
the following experiment.         Four vessels, each containing equal quan
tities of distilled water in which 2 per cent, of starch had been boiled,
were taken ; to B and D 1 per cent, bile salts were added and dissolved,
to C and D 0'5 per cent, carbonate of sodium was added and dis
solved.    The mixtures were digested with equal quantities of pancreatin
for 11 minutes at a temperature of 37° C, and then boiled and neu
tralised.    The amount of sugar estimated as dextrose by Fehling's
method was      : —
      A. Pancreatin                                      0695 per cent.
       B. Pancreatin + bile salts                        0-952     ,,
       C. Pancreatin                + Na2C03             0208
      D. Pancreatin + bile salts + NajjC03               0-384     „
                  Digestion of Proteids in the Presence of Bile.
    Experiments were also made to test the influence of bile on pan
creatic proteolytic digestion.
    Bile Salts. — The fluid to be digested was made by diluting egg-
albumen with distilled water, agitating, neutralising with acetic acid,
and straining the resultant mixture through muslin.                 Measured
quantities of this albuminous fluid were at the time of experiment
coagulated by heat and one or two drops of acetic acid ; the digestion
was conducted in the same vessel as coagulation was effected.
    Experiment J. — Three beakers, A, B, and C, each containing 120 c.c.
of diluted egg-albumen, coagulated in the manner above described,
were taken, and to each was added 1 per cent, of sodic carbonate ; to
A 2 .per cent, of bile salts of the pig was added and dissolved ; to A
 and  B  1  gram of pig's pancreatic extract rich in proteolytic ferment
 was added, and all three beakers placed in a warm chamber at 35° C.
 and digested for three hours.         The albumen in A at the end of that
 time appeared to be much more digested than that in B ; that in C
 was unchanged.         The fluids were then rapidly boiled, to stop all

164     On the Influence     of Bile   on Pancreatic Digestion.       [June   12,
ferment action.         A contained a deep yellow-coloured turbid fluid,
with a slight flocculent white precipitate; Ba light yellow-coloured
turbid fluid with copious white precipitate.           The three mixtures were
then filtered through double, balanced filters, and the filter washed,
first with boiling distilled water, then with boiling methylated spirit,
and finally with absolute alcohol.        The filters were then dried at 120° C.
and weighed.
    A, the fluid which contained       bile salts, yielded a residue weighing
0-150 gram.
    B, the fluid which did not contain bile salts, yielded a residue
weighing 0*536 gram.
    C, which was not digested, gave a residue weighing 1*256 grams.
    Experiment II. — In this a larger proportion of bile salts was used,
and digestion was conducted at a higher temperature.                Equal quan
tities of egg-albumen diluted with distilled water were introduced into
three beakers, A, B, and C, and coagulated by heat and a few drops of
acetic acid  ; 1  per cent, of sodium carbonate was added to each, and to
A 3 per cent, of pig's bile salts ; to A and B 1 per cent, of pancreatic
extract rich in proteolytic ferment was added, and the mixture digested
at about 40" C. for three hours.        The fluids were then boiled, and sub
sequently    filtered,   the precipitates being washed and dried as in
Experiment I. The weights were as follows : —
    A, the fluid which contained bile salts, yielded        a residue   weighing
0 098 gram.
    B, the fluid which did not contain bile salts, yielded a residue
weighing 0*G65 gram.
    C, the fluid which was not digested, yielded a residue weighing
1*062 grams.
    Glycocholate of Soda. — The effect of glycoholate of soda appeared
to be less marked than that of the bile salts as a whole.               Thus, in
experiments conducted in the same manner as those above                described,
a small portion     of glycocholate of soda appeared to have the effect of
slightly increasing the amount of albumen dissolved, while a some
what larger proportion either had a slightly contrary effect or none at
all.   In one experiment equal quantities of albumen were taken,
and glycocholic acid,* 0*5 per cent., added to one vessel (C), and
1*0 per cent, to another vessel (D), while none was added to a third
vessel   (B), and the three fluids were then digested with pancreatin
for two hours. A fourth vessel was retained as control.               The fluids
were filtered through balanced filter papers, and the filter washed
with distilled water, boiling methylated spirit, and absolute alcohol,
and dried at 110° C.
    The weights of the residues were       as   follows : —
                       * The acid was neutralised with VajCOj.

1890.]                                 Presents.                                  1«5
        A            0-625 gram.                   B            0-539 gram.
        C            0-514       „                 D             0-541     „
   These experiments       show that the power of bilo to hasten pancreatic
digestion is not limited to amylolytic digestion, bnt that it is equally,
if not more, marked in its influence on proteolytic digestion.
Vlir. "On       the Spectra of Comet a 1890 and the Nebula G.C.
     4058."      By J. NORMAN Lockyer, F.R.S.                       Received June
     12, 1890.
                                 [Publication  deferred.]
                              Presents, June 12, 1800.
 Transactions : —
    Dublin : — Royal      Irish    Academy.         Transactions.       Vol. XXIX.
         Part  13.   4to.    Dublin 1890; " Cunningham Memoirs." No. 5.
         4to. Dublin 1890.                                            The Academy.
    Mexico : —    Sociedad Cientifica          " Antonio Alzate."          Memorias.
         Tomo III. Num. 4-6. 8vo.                 Mexico 1890.           The Society.
    Munich : — Konigl. Bayerische             Akademie der Wissenschafcen.
         Abhandlungen (Histor. Classe). Bd. XVIII. Abth. 3. 4to.
         Miinchen 1889; Abhandlungen (Philos.-Philol.                  Classe).    Bd.
         XVIII. Abth. 2. 4to. Munchen 1889; Sitzungsberichte
         (Math.-Phys. Classe). 1889.             Heft 3. 8vo. Munchen ; Sitz
         ungsberichte        (Philos.-Philol. Classe). 1889.              Heft 1, 3.
         8vo. Munchen 1889 ; Georg Simon Ohm's Wissenschaftlicho
         Leistungen.        Von Eugen Lommel.               4to.     Miinchen 1889;
          Uber die historische       Methode auf dem Gebiet des deutschen
         Civilprozessrechts.         Von Julius Wilhelm v. Planck. 4to.
         Munchen 1889; Gedachtnisrede auf Karl von Prantl. Von W.
         v. Christ.     4to.     Miinchen 1889.                        The Academy.
     Naples :— Societa di Naturalisti.            Bollettino.     Ser. 1. Vol. IV.
         Fasc. 1. 8vo. Napoli 1890.                                      The Society.
               —
     Palermo : Circolo Matematico.              Rendiconti. Tomo III. Fasc. 6.
          Tomo IV.       Fasc. 1-2. 8vo. Palermo 1889-90.
                                                                          The Circolo.
     Toulouse : — Faculte des Sciences.              Annates.      Tome III. Fasc.
          1—4.     4to. Paris 1889.                                      The Faculte.
   Bristowe   (J. S.)       A     Treatise    on   the    Theory    and    Practice of
        Medicine.   Seventh edition.        8vo. London 1890.             The Author.

 166                               Presents.
BUtschli    (0.)    Ueber den Bau der Bacterien            und verwandter
      Organismen.     8vo. Leipzig 1890.               .         The Author.
Dana (J. D.) Characteristics of Volcanoes, with Contributions of
      Facts and Principles from the Hawaiian Islands.              8vo.   New
       York 1890 ; Corals and Coral Islands. Third edition.               8vo.
      New York 1890.                                             The Author.
Gore (G.), F.R.S.       On a New Method and Department of Chemical
      Research.     8vo.    [London] 1890.       With two other Excerpts
      in 8vo.                                                    The Author.
Jones (T. R.), F.R.S. , and G. J. Hinde. A Supplementary Mono
     graph of the Cretaceous Entomostraca of England and Ireland.
     4to.   London 1890.                                        The Authors.
Kolliker (A.), For. Mem. R.S.             Ueber den feineren Bau des
      Riickenmarks. 8vo.        Wiirzburg 1890.                  The Author.
Rambaut (A. A.)        A  simple    method   of  obtaining  an   approximate
     solution of Kepler's Equation. 8vo. [London] 1890. With
     two other Excerpts. 8vo.                                    The Author.
Reade (T. Mellard)         Physiography of the Lower Trias. 8vo.
     Hertford   1889.    With  two other Excerpts. 8vo.
                                                                 The Author.
Roth (H. Ling) A Guide to the Literature of Sugar. 8vo. London
     1890.                                                      The Author.
Sherborn (C. D.) and F. Chapman.          Additional Note on the Forami-
     nifera of the London Clay exposed in the Drainage Works,
     Piccadilly, London, in 1885.       8vo.    [London] 1889 ; Foramini-
     fera from the London Clay of Sheppey [Sheet].           Hertford 1889.
                                                               The Authors.
Timmins (S.) Dr. Priestley's Laboratory, 1791.           8vo.    1890.   [Re
     printed  from  the  "Birmingham     Daily Post."]
                                                           Mr. S. Timmins.
Warner (F.) A Course of Lectures on the Growth and Means of
     Training the Mental Faculty. 8vo.           Cambridge 1890.
                                                                The Author.
Wilde (H.), F R.S. On the Origin of Elementary Substances and
     on some New Relations of their Atomic Weights.            8vo. London
     1886.                                                      The Author.
Wolf (R.) Astronomische Mittheilungen.              December 1889. 8vo.
     [Zurich].                                                     Dr. Wolf-

                  (hi  the  Chief Line in      the Spectrum  of the Nebulce.          167
  " On the Chief Line in the
                                                 Spectrum of the Nebulae." By
           J. Norman Lockter, F.R.S. Received December 9, 1889,
          —Read January 16, 1890. Revised May, 1890.
        I.   Introductory.
       1 T.   The accuracy attainable in these inquiries.
     III. Ware-length of the chief nebula line.
                  A. Historical notice.
                  B. Laboratory observations with high dispersion in connexion   with the
                          chief nebula line.
                  C. Observations by a new method.
     IV. Fluted character of the chief nebula line.
      V. Conclusion.
                                          I. Introductory.
    In    1887, reasoning        from the spectral phenomena in stars of Vogel's
Class       Ilia,   which my researches proved to be due to the mixture of
bright flutings of carbon and dark flutings of manganese and other
 Babstances,         I  came to the conclusion that these stars could not be
stars in the ordinary sense but swarms of bodies separated from each
 other.
    I next       showed, reasoning again from the spectral phenomena, that
 these bodies were in all probability meteorites or particles of meteoritic
dust.
    A discussion of the origin of such stars as these next suggested
that it must be sought for in the nebulae.                 Meteoritic dust was then
experimented upon and two lines of unknown origin in the spectrum
oE this dust were found to be roughly in the same                    position as two
lines of unknown origin in the nebula spectrum.
    In my first communication to the Royal Society on this subject I
stated that the conclusions were "given with great reserve," and                        I
was careful to point out that               I had limited myself to small dispersion
(1 prism of 60°), because it was imperative that all the observations
should be strictly comparable ; those of very faint glows visible with
difficulty and those of a bright electric arc, to speak only of laboratory
work ; and          I   also added that there was an additional reason for this
in the difficulty of obtaining astronomical observations with large
dispersions in the case of very dim celestial objects.
    Seeing, therefore, that I dealt only, of set purpose, with small
                                                            "
dispersion,         I  limited myself to a " short title of three figures in my
references to the lines.
    But, although            I  did not employ great dispersion in the first in
stance,        I fully   understood     that this must be done eventually,      so  I  at
     YOL.      XLVHI.                                                          M

168                             Mr.  J. N.  Lockyer.
once provided for such observations both in laboratory and observatory,
and they were commenced last May.
    So far, however, only one branch of the observatory work has been
commenced, in consequence of delays on the part of the instrument
maker.      I should here state that my main endeavour in one direction
will be to obtain photographs of the spectra of nebulas and reference
 spectra   under       such   conditions that any instrumental error will
register itself      on the plate   in such a way that a proper correction for
it can  be made.        For such work     as this much    light and great stability
are required     ;   I have therefore     erected a 30-inch     reflector at West-
gate-on-sea,      having    received   a grant    in  aid  from  the Government
 Grant Fund ; the mirror has been figured and presented to me by my
friend Mr. Common ; the flat (7 inch diameter) by other friends, the
Brothers Henry, and I am anxious to take this opportunity of
expressing my obligations to them for this magnificent help in my
work.
   The laboratory researches, consisting of the application of higher
dispersion, have made more progress ; but they are not yet finished,
and in this paper I shall confine myself to observations made with
reference to the chief nebula line.
   A paper by Dr. and Mrs. Huggins, which has appeared in the
'                  '
  Proceedings        during the recess, contains criticisms of some points in
my   recent   papers    which require a reply.       They hold that I am wrong
in my identification of the origin of some lines in tho spectrum of the
nebulas, chiefly those two which Dr. Huggins himself has formerly
ascribed in one case to an unknown form of nitrogen and in the other
to hydrogen under some conditions which we cannot match in the
laboratory ; I, on the other hand, suggesting that possibly they may
be produced by magnesium,                a substance which occurs in most
meteorites.
   I  gather from this paper of Dr. and Mrs. Huggins that my object
in using a three-figure reference to the lines has been misunder
stood.    I                                              I
             think it important, therefore, that should at the present
time return to the subject, giving my reasons for the three-figure
references     I   used in the first instance.           For this purpose it is
 necessary to state       the  history   of  the subject less eclectically than
 Dr. and Mrs. Huggins have done.               I shall then give the work that
 has been since accomplished, though, as              I  have stated above, it is
 not yet finished ; and reply to Dr. and Mrs. Huggins's criticisms as
 best I can.
    As in my replies to the various objections raised by Dr. and Mrs.
 Huggins, I am most anxious not to even unconsciously misrepresent
their views,     I shall  deal with each line separately, take each objection
seriatim, and give their own words as far as possible. I confine myself
in the present paper to that at .V 500.

           On the  Chief Line in      the Spectrum       of   the Nebulce.      H)9
   I am   extremely gratified to find that in an inquiry dealing with,
roughly, some 10,000 observations, which has taken me two years,
and the details of which occupy some 235 pages in the ' Proceedings,'
the point in my argument            to which Dr. and Mrs. Huggins take
exception   is a subsidiary    one.
       II.  The Accuracy Attained           in  Earlier Investigations.
   My astronomical work has so far been almost exclusively devoted
to the Sun, in which case considerable dispersion is easily utilised.
When my Sun work drove me to try to obtain some information from
                          I
other celestial bodies, had to enter a comparatively unfamiliar field
of observation.     It may well be, therefore, that I ignorantly over-esti
mated the difficulties of such observations, and a passage in Dr. and
Mrs. Huggins's paper seems to suggest that such is the case. They
refer to observations of nebulas with a dispersion approaching that
given by 8 prisms of 60", with the Royal Society telescope. It must
be pointed out, however, that although this instrument has been in
Dr. Huggins's possession for nearly twenty yearSj so far as I know
no such observations have been continuously made with it previously,
or indeed by any other instruments in the hands of any other
observers.     I was justified in this view by noting that in Dr.
Huggins's important research published in 1879 only one prism was
employed in obtaining the photographic spectra of some of the
brightest stars in the heavens, made with the same telescope, and that
some two years afterwards, in 1881, he wrote, with reference to some
observations made by him of the comet of that year : — " I am also
able to see upon the continuous solar spectrum a distinct impression
of the group of lines between G and h which is usually associated
with the group described above. My measures for the less refran
gible group give a wave-length of 4230, which agrees, as well as can
be expected, with Professor Liveing and Dewar's measures, 4220."*
A  diagram of the spectrum of the comet was published in the paper
in which this   passage occurs, to which some importance seems to have
been attached.
   As, judging from this, the position of the lines in question could
have been read to about two in the fourth place, I am justified in
regarding this statement as a practical use of a three-figure reference.
I  gather from Dr. and Mrs. Huggins's criticism that Dr. Huggins
now expresses wave-lengths by five figures, that is, he states wave
lengths to the hundred-millionth of a millimetre.                 It is convenient,
therefore,   to express the discrepancies between different measure
ments in terms of this quantity as a unit. It will be seen that in
1881 he accepted with complacency a variation of 100 units of such
                        •  '
                             Roy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 38, p. 2.
                                                                         x 2

170                                      Mr.   J.   N. Lockyer.
a scale in the measurements made in the laboratory and observatory
respectively of a line which his diagram shows as clearly defined,
though in the text he uses the ambiguous phrase that he was able to
see a
       " distinct impression " of it. He did not consider that a
discrepancy of the magnitude indicated threw any doubt npon the
identity of the lines.
   I may mention as another fact which supports the nse of a three-
figure reference, that even in the research on the brightest stars it
was difficult to absolutely reconcile the one prism work in the
observatory with laboratory work.      No better illustration of this
could be found than a comparison of the work of two such observers
as Dr. Huggins and Prof. Cornu.
   One of the chief points in the memoir was the discovery of a series
of lines in the ultra-violet which Dr. Huggins ascribed to hydrogen ;
lines near the position given have, indeed, since been measured in
hydrogen by Cornu.*       I append the wave-lengths as given by the
t>vo   observers   :   —
                                   Huggins.t                  Cornu.
                                    37675           ....      3769-4
                                    3745-5          ....      37498
                                    87300                     3733-6
                                    3717-5          ....      3720-6
                                    3707-5          ....      3710-7
                                    36990
   It will again be observed, that if one had wished to give a handy
reference to these lines — a short title — three figures would have been
sufficient in two cases, for we have —
                                    3717-5          ....      3720-6
                                    3707-5          ....      3710-7
It is no part of my present business, however, to discuss the relative
accuracy of Dr. Huggins and Prof. Cornu as observers, but it must be
pointed out that by the nature of the research Prof. Cornu is more
likely to be right. We owe one of our best maps of the solar spectrum
in this part to Prof. Cornu, and the comparison of hydrogen with the
Snn could always be repeated at leisure and under stable conditions,
whereas, in the case of Dr. Huggins, the result depended upon a
photographic solar comparison in the telescope taken some hours
afterwards.    In any case, Professor Cornu's numbers are three years
old, and, so far as            I
                     know, Dr. Huggins has not challenged them.
     An inspection of the numbers shows that there                        is,   in all probability,
                           *   '
                                   Journal de Physique,' vol. 10,     1866, 841.
                       t       '
                                   Phil. Trans.,' toI. 171, p. 682.

            On   the Chief Line in  the Spectrum    of the Nebulae.       171
a systematic       error in Dr. Hogging's results of about thirty of the
units suggested above, and anyone acquainted with spectroscopic
work will see how very easily this might arise from the absence
of perfect adjustment.
    This brings me to another point which also influenced              me   in
arriving at the view I held, however erroneously.
    For the last fifteen years     I  have been employed, among other
matters, in taking photographs of the solar spectrum Compared with
arc spectra.       Of the thousands of photographs taken (with a disper
sion sncb that the distance between H and K covers about half an
inch on the plate) many hundreds have been rejected on account of
the want of exact coincidence between the solar and terrestrial lines
of the same element, the slightest variation in the rate of the clock of
the heliostat or siderostat employed, or the occasional changing of the
arc from the centre to either side of the pole, being enough to pro
duce this result.
    Hence, when      I wrote  my paper of November, 1887,     I  held (and    I
still hold, although      I may have erred     in overrating the difficulty of
observing stellar and nebular spectra) that short titles of the lines
compared, extending to three figures, sufficiently refer to positions,
and do not really underestimate the accuracy generally attainable.
Indeed, if this be not so, tbco from the single instance       I have quoted
Dr. Huggins's classic paper on the spectra of the white stars is mis
leading, and his series of lines in the ultra-violet cannot be due to
hydrogen.
    These general      remarks being premised,     I next give in historical
sequence     the observations of the nebula line now in question.
                III. Wave-length   of the Chief Nebula Line.
                              A. Historical Notice.
     Dr. Huggins's considers the    nebulae to be masses of gas, and he has
 suggested      that the chief nebula     lino may owe its origin to     somo
 unknown form of nitrogen.
     When     I  commenced my experiments on meteoritic glows, I saw a
 line in the position of the chief nebula line, with the dispersion
 employed.        Thinking it might arise from the magnesium in the
 silicate, I tried terrestrial olivine, and I again saw the line in its
 spectrum.       Subsequent work with a large model Steinheil spectro*-
 scope (four prisms and a high power eye-piece) showed that the line
  was coincident with the least refrangible          member of one of the
  fluting s seen in the flame-spectrum of magnesium, the wave-length of
  which had been given as follows      : —

172                                        Mr.    J.        N. Lockyer.
                    •Lecoq        de       Boisbaudran                                5006
                    tWatte                                                             5006-5
                    JLiveing and Dewar (1878)                                          5000
                    §            „               .,              (1888)   ....         5006-4
  Now for the determination      of the wave-length of the chief nebnla
line. I give a condensed statement of the observations available wheii
my paper was> written.
   (1864): — "The strongest line coincides in position with the
brightest of the air lines.          The diagram which accompanies
                                                      "||
this description represents the line about midway between the
two components      of the bright, coarse, nitrogen double.            The
wave-lengths given by Dr. Watts for the nitrogen lines from a
reduction of Dr. Huggins's measures are 4999 and 5003              so that,
according  to these measures,   the wave-length  of the nebula line  would
be somewhere between those positions.**       Taking Thalen's measures
of the nitrogen lines (5002 and 5005), the position of the nebula line
— assuming that      fell according to the drawing — would be 5003'5.
                            it
   Taking Thalen's measures and Dr. Huggins's reference to the
coarse double line, which with the dispersion then used appeared as
a single one, the wave-length       might be 5002-l or 5005*1 or any
value between these. We have thus a limit of error of thirty units
by Thalen's values.    Kirchhofi's values for the two lines, as given by
Watts, are 5004     5000    6,              6.
    1865. Secchi observed the spectrum of the Orion nebula in 1865-tt
  *  Spectres Lumineux,' p. 86.
      '
     Phil. Mag.,' 1875, p. 85.
      '
t t   Boy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 27, p. 353.
      '
      Roy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 44, p. 242.
      '
 §
    Dr. Huggine, Phil. Trans.,' 1864, p. 438.
                        '
  % ||
   '  Index of Spectra,' p. 3.
  ** Dr. and Mrs. Huggins, in their paper, call these figures of Watts into question.
They say,
          " Watts's reduction of my
                                         (tie) measures to wave-lengths   clearly not           is
accordant with the measures of air-lines immediately preceding and following this
line.  Ihave therefore reduced my original measures to wave-lengths, and find for
N, the value 5004 —     6
                                      "   Kirchhoff.                       5004-6
                                      " Thalen                             5005   1
  " ThaleVs value       is   clearly too high,              as   Thalen gives for the lead line coincident
with      Si   X5004'6 and       Nj   is   seen on the more refrangible side of the solar iron line
given by Angstrom as X5004'9.       In Angstrom's map N,      laid down on the    is                      more
refrangible side of the iron line 5004'9 at about 5004*5. The same position                          is   given
to N] in Kirchhoff     map.
                        s        have made
                                      I       new determination of the position
                                                                 a                                    of Nj,
using the second spectrum of       grating 17,300 to the inch, relatively to the
                                            a                                                          solar
iron line at 5O04'9 according to Angstrom.     The value came out 5004 6."                           ('   Roy.
Soc. Proc.' vol. 46,    45.)p.
  ft   '
        Comptes Rendus," vol. 60, p. 543.

            On the   Chief Line in       the Spectrum   of  the Nebulce.        173
Three lines were seen, and others suspected. The positions of the
lines were only roughly determined even by such an experienced
observer.     The strongest and widest of the lines was described as
situated at two-thirds of the interval between F and 6, whilst the
second line appeared coincident with F.
   1868. An observation made by Dr. Huggins in 1868 reads : — "The
determination of the position in the spectrum of the three bright
lines was obtained by simultaneous comparison with the lines of
hydrogen, nitrogen, and barium.              The instrument which I employed
had two prisms, each with a refracting angle of 60°, and the positions
of the lines were trustworthy within the limits of about the breadth of
the double line D . . . . The coincidence of the line in the
nebula with the brightest of the lines of nitrogen, though now sub
jected to a much more severe trial, appeared as perfect as it did in my
former observations.*
    It will be noticed that in these observations Dr. Huggins informs
us to what extent his observations were trustworthy, and, taking
 Thalen's measures for D, viz.,
                                         5895-0
                                         5889-0
 we find the possible error to be sixty units of the scale above sug
 gested. In the diagram which accompanies the above description the
 nebula line is shown coincident with the less refrangible component
 of the nitrogen double, in contradistinction to the former observation,
 which, made with less powerful dispersion and in accordance with
 Dr. Huggins's estimate of the accuracy attained at that time, placed
 the line midway between them.
    In another jjaragraph of the same paper (p. 543) Dr. Huggins
 takes " the wave-length of the nitrogen line at 500-80 millionths of
 a millimetre." Hence, according to this statement, the nebula line
 would have a wave-length of 500 80; or 500-51, if Thalen's value for
 the less refrangible nitrogen line be taken, and by Dr. Huggins's
 own assertion this value would only be accurate within the interval
 between the sodium double D, that is, 0006'0.                  It should also be
 noticed that the double line of nitrogen is again referred to as if it
 were a single line.
    1868.    Lieutenant Herschel made some micrometric measures of
 the chief nebula line in 1868,t and a reduction of them was made by
 D'Arrest in 1872, with the following result : —          J
        • '
            Phil. Trans.,' 1868, pp. 541-2.
        t ' Boy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 16, p. 451.
          '
        X   Undersogeleer  over de Nebulosestjerner,' Copenhagen,  1872, p. 22.

174                            Mr.  J.   N. Lockyer.
                  Gen. Cat. No.                      \ of chief line.
                     1179    Orion neb.                   5017
                     1567                                  5010
                     2102                                 500-8
                     2197                                 493-4
                     2581                                  499-8
                     2917                                  5006
                     40fi6                                499-8
                     4361                                 497-2
                     4390                                 5049
                     4403                                 4998
                     4407                                 499-4
                     4510                                  504-4
                     4628                                  5019
   The mean wave-length           given by this series is 50036, and the
extreme   values  are 493-4    — 504-9.
   1871. The following observations of the line in question were
made by Vogel in 1871.*
              Orion nebula, 13th January, 1871                     500 3
                                19th March, 1871                   500   2
               General Catalogue        4234                        500 5
                                        4373                   ,.   500-7
                                        4390                       500-5
                                        4447                        500-7
                                        4510                        500-8
These measurements differ by no less than 60 units of the scale now
adopted ; the mean value is 500'53.
             Dr. Huggins writes          " The line of
   1872.                              :                  nitrogen, when compared
with it     (the nebula line), appeared double, and each component
nebulous, and broader than the line of the nebula.                    This latter line
was seen on several nights to be apparently coincident with the middle
of the less refrangible line of the double line of nitrogen. "f
   This observation, however, obviously left us in the same position as
that of 1868, as far as the wave-length of the nebula line was con
cerned.
    1874.  In a paper " On the Motions of some of the Nebnla? towards
 or from the Earth" communicated to the Society in 1874, Dr. Huggins
 wrote : — X                 '
    " The brightest line in the nebular
                                                     spectrum is not sufficiently
 coincident    in character     and   position    with   the brightest line in the
                       • ' Bothk. Beob.,'
                                            Leipzig. 1872.
                         '
                       t    Boy. Soc. Proo.,' vol. 20, p. 883.
                       J  '
                            Boy. Soc. Proo.,' toI. 22, p. 252.

           On the Chief     Line in   the Spectrum       of  the Nebulae.      175
 spectrum of nitrogen to permit this line to be used as a fiducial line
 of comparison.      The line in the spectrum of the nebulas is narrow
 and defined, while the line of nitrogen is doable, and each component
 is nebulous    and broader than the line of the nebulae.             The nebular
                                                ...
 line is apparently coincident with the middle of the less refrangible
 line of the double line of nitrogen*                       In the course of some
other experiments, my attention was directed to a line in the spectrum
of lead which falls upon the less refrangible of the components of the
double line of nitrogen.         The line appears to meet the requirements
of the case, as it is narrow, of a width corresponding to the slit,
defined    at both edges, and in the position in the spectrum of the
brightest of the lines of the nebula?.
    " In
          December, 1872,      I compared this line directly with the first
line in the spectrum of the Great Nebula in Orion. I was delighted
to find the line sufficiently coincident in position to serve as a fiducial
line of comparison.
      I
    " am not
                 prepared to say that the coincidence is perfect ; on the
contrary,    I believe that, if greater prism power could be brought to
bear upon the nebulse, the line in the lead spectrum would be found
to be in a small degree more refrangible than the line in the
nebulas.
    " The
            spectroscope employed in these observations contains two
compound prisms, each giving a dispersion of 9° 6' from A to H. A
magnifying power of sixteen diameters was used.
    " In the simultaneous observation of the two
                                                           lines it was found that,
if the lead line was made rather less bright than the nebular line,
the small excess of apparent breadth of this latter line, from its
greater brightness, appeared to overlap the lead line to a very small
amount on its less refrangible side, so that the more refrangible sides
of the two lines appeared to be in a straight line across the spectrum.
This line could be therefore conveniently employed as a fiducial line
in the observations I had in view."
    1877.    The measures, by Dr. Copeland and Lord Lindsay, of the
wave-length of the line near 500 in Nova Cygni, which has generally
been accepted as the nebula line, were as follow : — t
                       1877,  January    2                502-4
                                  ,                       5051
                                         8                502-9
                                         9                5007
                                  „     27                5008
                                                Mean      502 4
                        • ' Roy. Soc. Proe.,' vol. 20,
                                                       p. 380.
                          1
                        t   Copernicus,' vol 2, p. 101.

176                                          Mr.   J.       N. Lockyer.
   Four additional measurements were made by Dr. Copeland and
Lord Lindsay respectively on September 2, 1877.    The reduction of
the micrometric measures by means of curves gave the following wave
lengths   :   —
                                Lord Lindwy.                        Dr. Copeland.
                                        499-5               ....             498-6
                                        5001                                 496-2
                                        4985                                 496- 4
                                        4990                                 4972
                         Mean           499 3                                497-   1
Here, again, it is obvious that the wave-length                                         of the line was by   no
means certain even to the first three figures.
  1880.   Dr. Copeland observed the spectrum of a new planetary
nebula  in 1880, and obtained the following measures for the chief
nebula line : — •
                               1880, December 3                                      5011
                                                                6                    5012
Dr. Lohse measured the line at 500'6.
  The spectrum of the Stephen-Webb nebula was also observed at                                               the
same time, and the line measured at 501'9.
   From these observations the mean wave-length of the nebula line
is found to be 501-2, a value differing widely from that given by
Dr. Huggins.
  1882.              In Dr. Huggins's important
                                        paper on the photographic
spectrum of the Orion nebula the only reference to the chief line is as
follows — "The brightest line, wave-length 5005,
              ;¦(•                                    coincident with                       is
the less refrangible component of the double line which     strongest                            is
in the spectrum of nitrogen."      The change of wave-length from
500'80, the value given in 1868, due to a change in the assumed value
of the nitrogen line    made without explanation, which shows that
                                    is
Dr. Huggins did not at that time attach as much importance to such
variations as he now seems inclined to do. The latest measures of
this line, so far as know, are those given by Dr. Copeland in 1888
                           I                                                                                 J
Althongh the dispersion employed             not definitely stated,     is                              it    is
remarked that    " a sufficiently powerfnl spectroscope was used."  The
measures he gives are as follow —                           :
                        1886, December                  .
                                                        .       5007         Two measures
                        1887,    January                        5003           „     „
                        1887             ,                      5003          One measure.
                                •
                                        Copernicus,' toI.    p. 2. 1,
                                    '
                            t'          Roy. Soc.  Proe.,' vol.  83,    427.   p.
                                X
                                    '
                                        Monthly   Notices,' vol.  48, p. 360.

            On  the  Chief Line in   the Spectrum  of  the Nebula.       177
    In these observations, therefore, by one of our most skilled spec-
troscopists, we have a difference of 40 of the units now adopted,
and    I  cannot refrain from pointing out that either the diffi
culties of the observations or the liability to instrumental error most
                                                                    " a suffi
be   very considerable when we see such variations as these,
                                     " and the
ciently powerful spectroscope                    magnificent instrument of
Lord Crawford's observatory being employed.
   It will be seen from this short retrospect —
    (1.) That the mean of the recorded observations of the magnesium
fluting placed it at 5004'7, while Dr. Huggins's last description (that
I had seen) of the position of the nebula line in terms of wave
length gave 5008"0, as he stated it, or 50O5'l, as it may be stated
if we take Thalen's value for the nitrogen line.              These observa
tions, according to his own statement, were only trustworthy within
ft limit    of sixty units, while the distances from the magnesium
fluting   are   thirty-three and four units respectively, according to
Which measure of the nitrogen line be taken.              From the facts at
my disposal,       it was obvious     that, if any difference existed, the
magnesium fluting was more refrangible than the nitrogen line, and
therefore than the nebula line, assuming the accuracy of Dr. Huggins's
observation     of  1868.
    (2.) That,   if observations by others be considered, the wave-length
of the magnesium fluting lies well within the extreme limits; and,
indeed, not far from the mean of them all.
    From these facts,     I  trnst it will be seen that     I  was perfectly
justified in stating the wave-length of the chief nebula line to three
figures only, and, further, that the coincidence between it and the
magnesium fluting was sufficiently probable to justify the making of
a statement
                " with reserve " to that effect.
    Since my paper of 1887, however, was presented to the Royal
Society,   I  gather from Dr. Huggins's criticisms that he has entirely
changed his ideas of the accuracy possible in these inquiries, and now
practically withdraws all the statements on which I depended to form
an estimate of the amount of accuracy that could be counted upon,
and the instrumental means that could be employed, in ttiese
researches. As I have shown, the accuracy which Dr. Huggins
hid attained with all his known skill in his last published
observation of the position of the nebula line was trustworthy
only within sixty units, according to his own statement ; this was
in 1868. During the last twenty years, so far as I can make out, this
observation has not been improved npon by the more powerfnl aids
 to investigation now in his possession, while, on the other hand, as
 recently as 1881, he regarded with complacency, as I have before
 stated, a variation of 100 units between the measured place of the
 same line in laboratory and observatory.         Further, in all his impor

178                           Mr. J.  N. Lockyer.
tant work since 1864 Dr. Huggins has employed only one or two
prisms as a rule, whilst now he states that he can use a dispersion
equal to nearly eight prisms of 60° in the case of the nebula in Orion,
and its use implies that this is the minimum dispersion that should
be used.     I  am rejoiced that this is so, if it be so ; and future obser
vers, travelling over the ground of which       I have attempted to make
a rough survey, will no doubt have better observations to work upon
than those on which        I have depended.                    I
                                               But although am rejoiced
that increased dispersion is possible,      I am so thoroughly acquainted
now with instrumental pitfalls that         I cannot accept Dr. and Mrs.
Huggins's new value until we know more exactly how it has been ob
tained, and until many observations, the conditions of which are
more   fully described, have confirmed it.
   Dr. and Mrs. Huggins do not appear to have applied the same test
at the same time to the coincidence of the third nebula line with the
F line of hydrogen, so that whether the non-coincidence of the mag
nesium was due to an instrumental error cannot be determined with
the facts before us.
   The observed difference between the nebula line and the magne
sium    fluting was nineteen of Dr. Huggins's present units, so that,
after all, if we only take his recent observations into account, we have
better evidence for the existence of magnesium in the nebulae than
we have for hydrogen in the white stars, so far as is evidenced by
the lines discovered by Dr. Huggins (see ante), for in their case the
coincidences do not occur within thirty units.
   I next refer to my own observations with high dispersion.
B. Laboratory Observations with High Dispersion in connexion with        the
                               Chief Nebula Line.
   Dr. Huggins's observations having led him to the conclusion that
the chief nebula line is coincident with the less refrangible member
of the double line of nitrogen near 500, and not with the magnesium
fluting,   I  first directed my attention to observations of these lines
and flutings in the laboratory, as the arrangements for observatory
work with high dispersion were not completed.
   The laboratory work was begun last May, and some of the photo
graphic results were exhibited at the Royal Society Soiree in the
same month.        It was, however, interrupted till the end of July, but
since the recess it has been taken in hand again.          Dispersions vary
ing from that given by a Liveing direct- vision spectroscope to that of
a Rowland grating of 12 feet 10 inches radius and 9"6 square inches
 surface, with an eyepiece of 1*4 inches equivalent focus, have been
 employed, in addition to which a Steinheil spectroscope with three or

            On the Chief     Line in   the Spectrum       of   the Nebulce. 179
  (in some observations) four prisms and a Cooke spectroscope of six
 teen prisms have been used.
     The comparisons so far employed by Dr. Huggins in his observa
 tions of the chief nebula line are the double green line of nitrogen,
 a Hue of lead, and the bright fluting seen in the spectrum of burning
 magnesium.      The relative positions of these have been re-observed in
 the  laboratory.
    The exact wave-length of the brightest edge of the magnesium
fluting was first determined by means of a comparison photograph of
the Sun and burning magnesium.
    The dispersion and width of slit were such that practically all the
lines seen in Rowland's photographic map were shown in the photo
graph. There was a slight shift, the amount of which could be deter
mined by measuring the displacement of 6; when this was allowed
for, the wave-length of the magnesium fluting was found to be 5006'5
on Angstrom's scale. This has since been confirmed by observations
with the four-prism Steiuheil and the first order spectrum of the
Rowland grating.
    Comparison photographs have also been attempted with the Row
land grating, but it was found that even with two hours' exposure
only the first four maxima of the magnesium fluting were obtained.
It was found difficult to keep the flame of the burning wire sufficiently
steady to ensure the light falling directly on the slit during the whole
time of exposure.
    It may be mentioned here that the secondary maxima of the fluting
succeed    each other at gradually increasing distances apart.              The
wave-lengths given by Messrs. Liveing and Dewar* and those deter
mined from the photographic comparison referred to are as follow : —
                  Liveing and Dewar.                   Lockyer.
                      5006-4                        5006-5
                                 10-8                          10-4
                      4995-6                       4996-1
                                10-2                          11-0
                      4985-4                       49851
                                11-8                           11-6
                      49736                        4973-5
                                120                            122
                      4961-6                       49613
                                130                            12-9
                      4948-6                       49484
                                14-2                          140
                      4934-4                       4934 4
    The  next observations were made with respect to the relative posi
tions   of the magnesium fluting and the less refrangible component of
                        • '
                            Koy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 44, p. 248.

  180                         Mr. J. N.  Lockyer.
  the nitrogen doable, which according to Dr. Huggins is           coincident
  with the nebula line.       As in his observations of the        nebula Dr.
  Huggins used eight prisms of 60°, the Cooke spectroscope         with eight
  prisms and a telescope magnifying fifteen times was first         employed.
  An electric spark between magnesium electrodes was used, and the
 length of spark was so adjusted that the nitrogen lines were visible
 when a Leyden jar was connected with the coil and the magnesium
  fluting when the jar was taken out of the circuit. The spark was
 placed about 30 inches in front of the slit, and an image formed by
 a leus of about 9 inches focus.       In this way the chances of error in
 measurement, due to changes in the direction of the light-source,
 with respect to the slit, were reduced to a minimum.          The spectrum
 was faint, so that it was found necessary to have the slit rather
 wide.    Under these conditions the magnesium fluting fell on the less
 refrangible member of the double green air line, as Dr. Huggins
 qbserved the nebula line to do in 186% ; this was confirmed by my
 assistants, and was seen by my colleagues Professors Thorpe and
 Riicker. Twelve and sixteen prisms were subsequently used, and
 with the wide slit, which it was then necessary to employ, the mag
 nesium fluting still fell. on the less refrangible line of nitrogen.
     I would here suggest that in future comparisons of the spectra of
 the nebulae with that of magnesium the quantity spark should be
 employed for obtaining the fluting, as it is in no way fatiguing to the
 eye.
     This comparison was repeated with a Steinheil spectroscope with
 three prisms of 45° and a telescope magnifying sixteen times.        In this
case there was less light lost than with the Cooke spectroscope, and the
observations were made with less difficulty.
     A small quantity of lead chloride was also introduced into the
spark, and the lead line was seen to be slightly more refrangible
than the edge of the magnesium fluting, so as to form a close double
with it. Using a small jar, it was found possible to obtain together
the spectrum of nitrogen, magnesium, and lead superposed, and under
these conditions the magnesium fluting was seen still apparently
coincident with the less refrangible nitrogen line, and the lead line
was a little more refrangible.
    The air spark so far employed was that obtained by using a small
jar ; the nitrogen lines were very fluffy and the spark was so feeble
that it was always necessary to use a wide slit.
    In subsequent experiments the jar spark between the two platinum
poles inserted in a glass tube containing air at a slightly reduced
pressure was used. This gave the nitrogen lines very much thinner
than the ordinary spark in air, and when a larger jar was put in
circuit the spectrum was also brighter. A narrower slit could there
fore be used and comparisons made with greater accuracy.

On tlie Chief Line in the Spectrum, of the Nebulae. 181
182                      Mr.   J.   N. Lockyer.
   Four prisms and an observing telescope magnifying about thirty
times were first used with the new conditions, and it was then found
that the magnesium fluting was a little less refrangible than the
nitrogen line. In this case the magnesium spectrum was obtained by
burning magnesium in front of the bulb, and the non-coincidence
with the nitrogen line was put beyond doubt by observing the two
spectra simultaneously.     This was further confirmed with the
Rowland grating, the magnifying power employed being about fifty-
five times.
   Comparisons with the solar spectrum were then made, with the
result shown in fig. 1.
   The solar spectrum shown in the drawing is from an enlargement
of Rowland's map of the region in question, and the positions of the
fluting of magnesium and the lines of nitrogen and lead are as deter
mined with four prisms and confirmed with the Rowland, which differs-
from Angstrom's scale by one division ; e.g., 5007"5 on Rowland's scale
is equivalent to 5006'5 on Angstrom's.    (This difference was deter
mined by a comparison of twelve lines of iron mapped by Thalen with
the corresponding   solar lines shown in Rowland's map.)        Two
spectra of nitrogen are shown in the map, the first one, that seen
when the small jar was used and the slit was rather wide ; and the
second, that seen with the jar spark in rarefied air and the slit as
narrow as possible.  In the first case the lines are very broad and
begin to fade away rather suddenly on both sides. Two spectra of
magnesium are also shown, one with the slit wide and the other with
it narrow.
  It will       that when the slit is rather wide the haziness of the
             be seen
less refrangiblenitrogen lines overlaps the first maximum of the
magnesium fluting, when seen with the same slit. This is the same
whether magnesium or platinum poles were used for the air spark,
and this shows that the apparent coincidence is not due to the
remnant of the magnesium fluting being superposed on the air lines.
The importance of using a narrow slit and a spark with large jar,
preferably   in air at a reduced pressure, for comparison with the
nebulee   is,
           therefore, obvious.
   The results given are not to be absolutely relied upon, as there may
be slight errors, due to the various light sources not being perfectly
in the line of collimation.    It has been found, for example, that  a
change of 111 minutes of arc in the direction of the beam from the
siderostat displaces the lines about two divisions of Rowland's scale,
or more than the difference between the positions of the chief nebula
line and the fluting of magnesium as determined by Dr. Huggins.
Every precaution was taken, however, to ensure the accuracy of the
observations.   The beam from the siderostat was first directed on the
slit, and the spark and lens placed in the same direction by adjusting

            On the  Chief Line in   the Spectrum     of the  Nebula.        183
 their shadows on the slit plate.     The slit was made as narrow as the
luminosity of the spark would allow.
    It was also noticed during the observations that errors may be in
troduced by the insensible motions of the eye in front of the slit.
With a spectroscope having one flint glass prism of 60° and a tele
scope magnifying about fifteen times, the displacement                   of the
lines due to this cause as referred to the cross wires was found to
amount to as much as forty units, or twice the distance between the
magnesium fluting and the less refrangible nitrogen line.            With the
Cooke spectroscope having eight prisms the displacement wns not
more than twenty units. Pinholes of various sizes were placed in
front of the eyepiece, but the displacement was not at all diminished
by this.     The motion of the lines over the pointer was found to be
quite rhythmical and to keep time with the beating of the heart.
    No doubt this displacement could be abolished by perfect focussing,
but the construction of instruments generally does not admit of the
focussing of the cross wires, and even if there be an adjustment, as
there is in the instrument used by me, one condition is only good for
one observer.
    These experiments, therefore, show that many precautions have to
be   taken before the coincidence or non-coincidence of one line with
another can be determined with absolute certainty even when large
dispersion and stable laboratory conditions are employed.
    The general results of the laboratory comparisons may be briefly
stated thus : —
                                              Liveing     Liveing
                       Huggins.    Thalen.  and Dewar and Dewar       Lockyer.
                                               (1880).     (1888).
                        5006 -5                 5000       5006 4      5006-5
                        5004-6      5C05 1                             5005-1
    Pb line             5004-5     5004-6                              5005-0
    It  must be remembered       that ordinary observatory conditions are
 not nearly so favourable for accurate      measurements       of the positions
 of lines in spectra as laboratory ones.   Jn  the first place, the apparatus
 is not  so stable, and must    of necessity be in motion, and again, the
 collimator of the spectroscope with its slit exactly central must be
 demonstrated to be absolutely in the optic axis of the telescope before
 a measurement     can be taken as final.
     Two series of observations should therefore be made, one with the
  spectroscope in one position, and the other when it has been turned
     vol. xlviii.                                                      o

 184                       Mr.  J. N.   Lockyer.
through 180°. There is no statement in Dr. and Mrs. Huggins's
paper that this has been done.
   Finally, I may point out that with the above values, and assuming
that the nebula line exactly coincides, as Dr. Huggins says that it
does, with the least refrangible of the nitrogen double, the difference
in position between it and the magnesium fluting is less than a quarter
of the distance between the two D lines, and I have shown that this
difference may easily arise from instrumental errors.
                     C. Observations by a New Method.
   The laboratory work having shown the numerous sources of error
connected with observations where great accuracy is attempted, it
seemed to me that it was quite hopeless to attempt very accurate
observations of nebulae in the ordinary way, where the conditions are
not nearly so favourable as in the laboratory.
   I  have already pointed out that unless it can be demonstrated that
the collimator of the spectroscope is absolutely in the optic axis of
the telescope employed, one series of observations alone is worthless.
Again, the greater the dispersion employed, the greater generally
will be the weight of the spectroscope, and the less the stability of
the apparatus.      Finally, as the telescope must necessarily be in
motion, the conditions are constantly liable to change by the varying
dispositions  of the various parts of the apparatus.
   It  struck me that these difficulties could be to a great extent over
come by the use of a siderostat, in which case a spectroscope of any
weight could be employed, as it was no longer necessary that it should
be in motion.      To test this method, arrangements were made for
observing the spectrum of the nebula in Orion.           A 12-inch side
rostat and the 10-inch object-glass of the Science Schools equatorial
were employed, in conjunction with an optically perfect Steinheil
spectroscope belonging to the Physical Laboratory, and placed at my
disposal by Professor Riicker.
   The observations commenced on November 27th.
   The following account is based upon the records in the note book,
further explanatory additions having been made where necessary.
   November 27th. — The 10-inch object-glass from the equatorial was
supported in a semi-circular wood block, on an adjustable lantern
tripod, which was sunk about 6 inches in the ground and the top
perfectly levelled.    By carefully sighting a lamp supported at the
siderostat, the collimator of the spectroscope was placed in a line
 with it. The object-glass was then put in proper line, and adjusted
by observations of Aldebaran with a reflecting eyepiece, which was
supported in front of the slit, and so arranged that when an object
was in the centre of the field it was also on the slit. Aldebaran was

             On the  Chief Line in  the Spectrum    qf the Nebulce.     185
  also used   for adjusting the object-glass at the proper distance from
  the slit. The ordinary cross-wire eyepiece of the spectroscope being
  replaced by the bright line micrometer, the prisms were adjusted at
 minimum deviation for        \  500 by observing the spectrum of mag
 nesium ribbon burning in a spirit lamp in front of the centre of the
 mirror.     These preliminaries being completed, the work with the
 nebula was commenced.
     The nebula was first brought upon the slit by means of the
 reflecting eyepiece, and the observation was attempted with four
 prisms, but unsuccessfully, as the night was not good and the nebula
 was   low, so two were removed. When this was done, the three prin
cipal lines were seen remarkably well, and a very narrow slit could be
 used.     The chief line was made coincident with the illuminated
 pointer ; magnesium ribbon was then burned at the centre of the
 mirror, and with this dispersion the coincidence between the nebula
 line and the least refrangible maximum of the magnesium fluting
 appeared perfect.      These observations were made independently by
 Messrs. Fowler and Baxandall, and Lieutenant Bacon, R.N., tempo
 rarily attached to the Science Schools, but in no case was the
 nebula    line seen more refrangible than the magnesium fluting.
 Another prism was then added, and set to minimum for K 500.
    Absolutely the same result was obtained. The burning magnesium
 used for comparison was removed from the front of the mirror and
placed directly in front of the slit, but still the same result was
obtained.      The brightness of the nebula lines with three prisms made
 it evident that another prism might be added.
    The magnifying power of the telescope employed was sixteen, and
 the dispersion C to H with three prisms was 6° 32'.
    November 28th. — The observations          of the Orion nebula were
repeated    with  similar arrangements    to those employed on the previous
evening, the fourth prism being now added.           The spectrum was very
well seen when the nebula was on the slit, but it was very difficult to
keep it on, as, in consequence of the looseness of a screw, as it was
subsequently found, the siderostat clock worked badly.
    One comparison was, however, made by Mr. Fowler, using the
same micrometer eyepiece as before and a very narrow slit.              The
nebula line and the less refrangible maximum of the magnesium
fluting were found to be perfectly coincident.
    Arrangements had been made during the day for burning mag
nesium, so as to get parallel rays from it. The method is shown in
fig. 2, and consists of a collimator placed in front of the object-
glass.     When burning the magnesium, a card, with a hole in the
centre of the same diameter as the collimating lens, was placed in
front of the 10-inch object-glass to keep out stray light.           At the
spirit lamp end of the tube was a piece of tin foil with a pin-hole at
                                                                 O  2


            On   the Chief Line in the Spectrum  of the Nebulae.    187
the     centre.    The image of this was focassed on the slit of the
Steinheil, and when the magnesium was burning the spectrum was well
seen.
    November 29th. — During the day the siderostat was put in order.
    The position of the collimator of the Steinheil was tested by open
ing the slit very wide, and burning magnesium at the centre of the
siderostat mirror (the mirror being temporarily removed for this
purpose).       The image of the slit fell exactly in the centre of the
colli mating lens, so that no alteration was necessary.
    An observation was also made of the displacement of the mag
nesium fluting brought about by moving the spirit lamp in which the
magnesium was burned away from the centre of the mirror.          It was
found that if the lamp were moved more than two inches on either
side the spectrum ceased to be visible.        Between the two extreme
positions {i.e., 2 inches on each side of the centre), the displacement
produced was about one-third of the distance between the first and
second maxima of the magnesium fluting.
    The rough collimator that had been previously used was replaced
 by the collimator of a student's spectroscope, the slit of which was
adjustable both for length and breadth.         This was supported on a
 light iron tripod, so that, when in position, it would prevent very
 little light from the siderostat passing through the object-glass.   By
 this arrangement the spectra of magnesium and the nebula could be
 superposed, it being intended to obtain the magnesium fluting in this
case from a quantity spark between magnesium poles. An enlarged
 image of the secondary slit is, of course, formed on the slit of the
 Steinheil spectroscope.
     A complete plan of the apparatus, drawn to scale, and showing
 some of the principal dimensions, is given in fig. 3. The Steinheil
 spectroscope employed has a circular table, 28 inches in diameter,
 supported on a tripod stand weighing about eighty pounds.       The col
 limator and observing telescope are each about 20 inches long, and
                          J
 have object-glasses 1 inches in diameter.        The prisms have faces
 2" x 2", three of them having an angle of 45°, and one of 60°, each
 one being supported on a stand provided with levelling screws. With
  the four prisms the dispersion from A to H is 10°.
     The reflecting eyepiece which was used to act as a finder was the
 ordinary one used with the 10-inch equatorial, and could be lifted out
 of its supports and put back again at pleasure.
     No work could be done in the observatory this evening on account
  of fog.
     November 30<fc. — Commenced work by adjusting the object-glass
 and the collimator in front of it.
     The accuracy of this adjustment was checked by a comparison of 6
      the spectrum of the Moon with 6 in the spectrum of magnesium

Fro.   3.   — Plan    of                    for                    the               of the                 bodies       by the        aid   of   a   siderostat.        A,     siderostat      B,     10-inch
                           arrangements           observing              spectra                heavenly                                                                                                             object-
       glass   and     support    ; C,   4-prism     Steinheil       spectroscope      ;   D.    collimator     for      obtaining         comparison         spectra     ;     E, spark     stand    ;  F,      induction
                                                       as finder                     for                     the                  of    the micrometer          ;        wall    of hut
       coil                                   to act                 j                                                                                                                       j L,;
             ;  G,   reflecting   eyepiece                               H,   lamp         illuminating               pointer                                       K,                               doorway.

            On the Chief Line in  the Spectrum  of the  Nebuhz.     189
 burning behind the secondary collimator. There was perfect coin
 cidence between the lines. Four prisms were used for the comparison,
 and the centre of the Moon's disc was thrown on the slit.
     Everything being now in perfect adjustment, the nebula was
 turned to, and three good comparisons made of the chief line and the
 magnesium fluting, the magnesium being burned behind the secondary
 collimator. The pointer was displaced and readjusted in each obser
 vation.    In each case the coincidence with the least refrangible
 maximum appeared perfect.          These observations were made by
 Mr. Fowler and Lieutenant Bacon.         In order to further test the
 result obtained, Mr. Fowler pnt the pointer of the micrometer exactly
on the nebula line, and left it for Lieutenant Bacon to say how its
 position was with respect to magnesium ; again it was perfectly
coincident.
    Lieutenant Bacon made three independent comparisons, the position
of the pointer being changed each time, and twice found coincidences
with the least refrangible maximum, whilst once the nebula bine
appeared to be on the right-hand edge of the same maximnm.          Mr.
 Gregory also made one comparison which confirmed the above-
results.
    December 1st. — The object-glass having been adjusted by means of
Aldebaran as before, the secondary collimator was put in position,
and the magnesium spark from a quantity coil put behind the slit.
 With this arrangement a comparison of the nebula line with the lines
of nitrogen could also be made. The collimator was adjusted by
means of 6, as seen in the Moon and in the magnesium spark.
    The pointer of the micrometer was then put upon the F line in the
Moon, and the nebula was afterwards brought upon the slit. The
two lines were coincident,     showing the probable accuracy of the
adjustments.
    Three comparisons were made of the nebula line with magnesium
by Mr. Fowler, the pointer being displaced each time ; in each case
the coincidence was perfect.
    Comparisons with the nitrogen lines showed the nebula line to be a
little less refrangible.
    I  made the comparison twice, and in each case the coincidence
with the magnesium fluting was perfect.        In one case   I  saw the
pointer of the micrometer, the nebula line, and the nitrogen lines at
the same time ; the pointer was on the nebula line, but both appeared
to the right of the nitrogen double.
   Finally, Mr. Fowler put the pointer on the nebula line, Lieutenant
Bacon agreeing with him as to the setting.            I
                                               Then made the follow
ing comparisons : —
    (1.) With the nitrogen lines. Result, pointer to the right.
    (2.) Magnesium bnrning behind slit. Result, coincidence perfect.

190                         Mr.  J. N; Lockyer.
    (3.) Magnesium burning at the centre of the siderostat.       Result,
       again perfect coincidence.
    It was found that magnesium burning at the centre of the sidero-
stat was coincident with magnesium burning behind the secondary
slit, thereby showing the accuracy of the adjustments.
    In all these observations the nebula line was seen to be sharper on
the right-hand edge than on the left, and it was irregularly bright
along its length, as in the Westgate observations.
    The observations have left no doubt in my mind as to the coin
cidence of the chief nebula line with the magnesium fluting, under
such conditions that at the same time the coincidence of the F line of
hydrogen with another nebula line was demonstrated.
    Lieutenant Bacon and my assistants concur in this view. Even
with four prisms the observations are by no means easy, and are
very delicate, but it is important to note that in no observation
was the nebula line found more refrangible than the magnesium
fluting, and if the optical conditions were imperfect it seems hardly
likely that an error in the same direction would be reproduced on
four different nights, the apparatus being set up afresh each time.
    Arrangements are in progress for repeating the observations with
apparatus furnished with screw adjustments.
     There is one more test of the accuracy of the adjustments which
                                  I
 might have been applied had thought of it in time.        So far the test
relied on has been to see that the lines seen in the spectrum of mag
 nesium burning at the centre of the mirror were coincident with those
 seen when the magnesium was burned behind the secondary slit.          In
 one case the   light passed through the object-glass only, -while in the
 other   it passed through the object-glass and secondary collimator.
 When the observations are repeated, it is intended to further test
 the adjustments by forming an image of the flame at the mirror
 upon the secondary slit, so that in both cases the light will pass
 through the collimator and object-glass.     If the lines are still coin
 cident, the accuracy of the adjustments will be still further demon
 strated.
           IV. Fluted Character of the Chief Nebula Line.
     Dr. and Mrs. Huggins state that the chief nebula line is perfectly
 sharp and well-defined.     This necessitates my giving in reply a com
 plete account of those recorded observations, which, coupled with
 my own, have led me to the opposite conclusion, namely, that the
 line is often noticed ill-defined at the edges, chiefly on the blue side,
 and in some parts of the nebula in Orion presents even more unmis
 takable indications that it is the remnant of a fluting.
     Certain references in the paper suggest that it may be well that I

                On the Chief      Line in       the Spectrum        of    the Nebulce.         191
should briefly state what              I
                            understand by a fluting, and     cannot do                I
this better than by referring to observations of a candle flame which
anyone can make. A pocket spectroscope and a lens are all that are
needed to follow my remarks.       If the image of the base of the flame
be projected on to the slit, bright flutings are seen in the green
(near     6),
          citron, blue, and violet. That in the green      the brightest,        is
and  isseen to consist of three apparent bright lines with faint fringes
on their more refrangible sides. The different members of the group
gradually diminish in brightness, the least refraugible being the
brightest. Such a group as this      look upon as
                                                I     compound fluting,   a
and each member itself as a simple fluting, since with high disper
sion the fringes break up into series of fine lines very close to
gether.   If now the image of the flame be gradually raised, so that
the base passes off and portions nearer the centre are brought on
to the slit, the fainter members of the group gradually disappear,
a^d when a certain point       reached only the brightest, least refran
                                           is
gible, simple fluting    left.
                             is This   look upon as the "remnant of a
                                                  I
fluting," whether the fluting was in the first instance simple or com
pound.
   The compound fluting of magnesium near 500           very similar to         is
that of carbon. It consists of a series of bright lines of gradually
diminishing brightness and increasing distances apart towards the
more refrangible end, and each has a fringe on the more refrangible
side. The first maximum (the least refrangible)      brighter than the     is
others, and the fringe close to        brighter than
                                                it   the
                                                     is   second maxi
mum, and so when     " the remnant of the magnesium fluting near 500
                                                                       "
is referred to, the first maximum with that portion of its fringe
which     brighter than the second maximum
          is                                     meant.            is
   Before     give the observations of the character of the chief
                I
nebula line in historical sequence, quote Dr. Huggins's statement —
                                                 I                                             :
"                                                               in 1864,
  My own observations of the line, since my discovery of                                  it
with different spectroscopes up to a dispersion equal to eight prisms
of 60°, show the line to become narrow as the slit       made narrow,            is
and to be sharply and perfectly defined at both edges."
   The following are the first recorded observations —                      :
   In 1864, the spectrum of the Dumb-bell nebula in Vulpecula was
observed, and    was noted* that the light of this nebula, after " pass
                    it
ing through the prisms, remained concentrated in a bright line, cor
responding to the brightest of the three lines represented in fig.                                 5,
Plate X. This line appeared nebulous at the edges."
  Similarly,     was recorded in 1866 of the spectrum of General
                    it
Catalogue    No. 4403 — f" The spectrum of this nebula indicates
                             :
that it posesses   gaseous constitution.
                         a                One bright line only was
                               •   '
                                       Phil. Trans.,'     1864, p. 441.
                             t     '
                                       Phil. Trans.,'     1866, p. 385.

1U2                              Mr.  J. N. Lockyer.
seen,  occupying in the spectrum apparently the same position as the
brightest of the lines of nitrogen.            When the slit was made as narrow
as the intensity of light would permit, this bright line was not so well-
defined as the corresponding line in some of the other nebulce under
similar conditions of slit, but remained nebulous at the edges." An ob
servation of the spectrum of General Catalogue No. 4572,* also
made in 1864, led the observer to record : — " The spectrum of this
nebula consisted of one bright nebulous line of the same refrangibility
as the brightest of the lines of nitrogen," and in the same paper we
read : — " One bright line only was distinctly seen, of apparently the
same refrangibility as the brightest of the nitrogen lines. This bright
line appeared by glimpses to be double.            Possibly this appearance was
due to the presence near it of a second line."
   These observations          show conclusively that the chief nebula line
has not always been described as " sharply and perfectly defined at
both edges," to use Dr. Hnggins's language of 1889, and to no one
should this fact be more manifest than to Dr. Huggins, since the
above observations were made by him.
   Secchi, one of the first observers of nebular and stellar spectra, in
observations of some planetary nebulae made in 1860,f saw the three
principal lines, and noted that "the planetary nebula in Andromeda
has the lines above named, but the principal one is a little diffused."
   The observation relating to the presence of a second bright line
very near to the chief nebula line might have been of considerable
importance, and have afforded an almost crucial test of the validity
of my identification of the line. This second line might well have
been the second maximum                 of the magnesium fluting, but Dr.
Huggins's statement as to its position is so loose as to make it
impossible for me to say whether such is the case or not.
   I should, however, have been unjustified in relying upon Dr.
Huggins alone ; and it will be seen from what follows that nearly
all observers of nebula spectra have noted at some time or other that
the chief nebula line appeared undefined at one edge, as if it were
part of a fluting.
   In 1871 Vogel made some observations of the spectra of nebula).^
I have noted that in 1864 Dr. Huggins observed only one bright line
in the spectrum of the Dumb-bell nebula, and recorded this line as
nebulous at the edges.          Vogel's observations of the spectrum of the
same nebula in 1871 agree, as regards the character of the line, in
every respect with that of Dr. Huggins.
   The following is Vogel's description : — " Sehr heller grosser Nebel
der unter dem Namen Dumb-bell bekannt ist. Das Spectrum desselben
              • '   Phil. Trans.,' 1866, p. 386.
             t  '
                    Bullettino Meteorologico,' 31st Oct., 1866.
                  '
              t     Bothk. Beob.,' Leipzig, Heft 1, 1872, p. 56.

           On the   Chief Line in     the Spectrum      of  the Nebulae.      193
 wttrde am 21 Mai, 1871, untersucht, es besteht aus zwei Linien, von
 denen die erste mit der Stickstofflinie (Wellenlange 50O4 Milliontel
 Millimeter) coincidirt ; diese Linie erscheint aber hier breiter als in
den Spectren der planetarischen Nebel und ist besonders nach dem
violetten Ende des Spectrums sehr vebwaschen."
   Here, then, it is again explicitly stated that the nebnla line was
considerably ill-defined on the violet edge.
   Bredichin made a series of observations of the three nebnla lines
in 1877, and he noted also that the chief line was less defined on
the bine edge.       In the words of this observer, "se presentait
comme nne bande, nne peu pins claire vers le rouge."*
   The following is the description of the chief nebnla line, as seen in
the Orion nebula, given by Mr. Maunder in 1884 : — f
   " The line X 5005 was examined with this latter dispersion (two-
prism train), the slit being very narrow, and was seen to be a single
line.   None of the lines in the spectrum of the nebula are, however,
very sharp.     X 5005 showed a faint fringe mainly on the side nearer the
blue."
   It must be borne in mind that as these observations of the unde
fined condition of the blue edge of the nebular line were made before
special attention had been directed to it by my paper of November,
1887, they were absolutely unbiassed.              Prior to 1887, no one had
suggested that the line might be the remnant of a fluting.                Indeed,
Dr. Hnggins contended for a line of an unknown form of nitrogen.
   I  have already quoted Dr. Hnggins's present declaration, that since
his discovery of the nebnla line in 1864 he had always observed it as
sharply and perfectly defined at both edges, by which assertion he
practically repudiates his own published observations.               But Dr. Hug-
gins has done more than this ; he has put himself to the trouble of
communicating with other observers of nebula spectra with a view of
obtaining their opinions as to the character of the chief line.            I need
only refer to Dr. Hnggins's correspondence with Professor Vogel,
who wrote,J in answer to a letter from him and in support of his
view : — " Beeile ich mich Ihnen mitzutheilen, dass meine langjahrigen
Beobachtungen fiber die Spectra der Gas-Nebel vollkommen mit den
Ihrigen darin iibereinstimmen, dass die Nebellinie               \   5004 schmal,
soharf und nicht vebwaschen ist." With reference to the observa
tion of Dr. Vogel as to the' undefined character of one edge of the
nebula line, previously referred to in this reply, Dr. Huggins remarks
as follows : — " In an early observation            of the Dumb-bell nobula,
Prof essor Vogel, indeed (' Beobachtungen zu Bothkamp,' p. 59, 1872),
describes this line as less defined towards the violet side. In a letter
             * *
                 Annales de l'Obs. de Moscou,' vol. 3, 1877, p. 120.
               '
             t   Greenwich Spectroscopic iteisults,' 1884, p. 5.
             t '
                 Hoy. Soc. Proc.,' toL 46, p. 53.

194                            Mr.   J. N. Lockyer.
(April   3, 1889),    Professor Vogel says this appearance of the line was
probably    due    to a slit not sufficiently narrow.          He says that he re
examined this line in his observations with the great Vienna refractor,
and that   it did not then appear otherwise than defined and narrow."
   I  fancy that Dr. Huggins and Professor Vogel must know that
widening the slit does not generally cause a well-defined line to
become less defined on one side only. Again, the fluting would very
probably be seen little better with the Vienna refractor than with
that at Bothkamp ; for         I  find that the brightness of the nebula in
the former is to that in the latter only about as 13 to 10.
   Since my paper of November, 1887, was written other observers
besides Dr. and Mrs. Huggins have had their attention directed to
nebular spectra, with special reference to the character of the chief
line.
   My first observations of the nebula of Orion from this point of view
were made at Westgate-on-Sea              in October, 1888, by means of a
12-inch mirror that had been kindly placed at my disposal by
Mr. Common.            The image of the nebula being allowed to float
                           I
slowly over the slit, distinctly got the impression that the line in
question varied in its behaviour from the other lines, and that at the
points where it was brightest it extended most towards the blue end
of the spectrum.         The observations were repeated at Kensington
with the 10-inch equatorial by Mr. Fowler, Demonstrator of As
tronomy, and Mr. Baxandall, and they arrived at the conclusion that
the chief line had a decidedly fluted appearance.
   This observation is further borne out by Mr. Taylor, who, referring
to an observation made in November, 1888,* states : —
   " The 5001 line is                                                        It is
                             by far the brightest in the spectrum.
never   seen   sharp, but, with the narrowest slit, always has a fluffy
appearance, this being much more marked on the blue than on the red
edge.    This was most carefully examined for evidence of structure,
but the line was always found to be single, and no decided evidence of
fluting structure could be made out." It is clear from this observa
tion that the line fades away towards the violet end of the spectrum,
although the actual compound structure of the magnesium fluting is
not visible.    I    shall presently have to refer to an experiment which
shows   that  the compound structure would not be likely to be visible.
   I have quite recently (October 29) observed the spectrum of the
nebula in Orion with my 30-inch reflector at Westgate-on-Sea, using
an enlarged form of pocket spectroscope with a dispersion                   which
does not split D, and the observation is, to my mind, final.              I found
that in certain parts of the nebula the lines were knotted, and in
others broken ; but in the former case, whilst the P line thickened
                 '
                    Monthly Notices, B.A.S.,' vol. 49, p. 125.

            On the Chief    Line in  the  Spectrum of    the Nebulce.        195
equally on both sides, the chief line thickened          only on the more re
frangible side. This result is shown in fig. 4.
Via.  4. — Diagram   showing the appearance of the three principal lines in the
  spectrum of the nebula in Orion as observed in the Westgate 80-inch reflector.
   This was confirmed by Messrs. Fowler and Baxandall at Kensing
ton, with the 10-inch equatorial on October 31st and November 1st,
and again by Mr. Fowler, with the 30-inch, on November 2nd. It may
be noted also that       I got momentary glimpses of many bright lines
between F and G on October 31st. Messrs. Fowler and Coppen have
since made some very careful observations of the Ring nebula in
Lyra, and also record the chief line as having a fringe on the more
refrangible side. A line less refrangible than 500 in the neighbour
hood of     6  was suspected ; this may turn out to be the carbon fluting
near 517    :  the absence of the hydrogen line in the 10-inch was im
portant     as indicating that the nebula is in an advanced stage of
condensation, approaching that of the nebula in Andromeda.
   In the observations with the siderostat arrangement, as pointed
out in the extracts from the observatory note-book, the chief line
was   noted by Mr. Fowler and Lieutenant Bacon to have a decided
fringe on the more refrangible side.
   It  may be remarked that high dispersion is not so likely to show
the Anted character of the chief line as low, for the more the
fringe is dispersed the fainter it must become.
   In   consequence of the brilliancy of the Orion nebula, the fluted
appearance of the chief line would be more manifest than in any other
nebulae, and the absonce       of the fringe when the line is seen in the
spectra of faiuter nebute is therefore not antagonistic to the view that
the line may be the remnant of the magnesium fluting.                This must
not be misinterpreted.         Given two nebulae, exactly alike in every
respect   but   temperature,  then the line, if visible in both, would appear
more like     a  compound fluting in that nebula of which the temperature

  196                        Mr. J. N. Lockyer.
 was lower, and would become more like a line as the temperature was
 increased.
    But this is not all ; a greater number of collisions per unit volume
 at the same temperature would increase the visibility of the effects,
 and greater brightness in a nebula may proceed from this cause as
 well as from a less distance. We should not, therefore, expect to see
 the fluting, even if its existence be conceded, in all cases, and the
 smaller the dispersion the better it will be seen, cceteris paribus. Ex
 periments have been made here on the spectrum of magnesium when
 seen very faintly with moderate dispersion.
    The conditions being such that the structure of the fluting near 500
 was well visible when magnesium ribbon was burned in front of the
 slit, a sufficient thickness of neutral tint glass was introduced to
 reduce the brightness of the fluting until it was about equal to that
 of the chief line seen in the spectrum of the nebula in Orion
 Under these conditions, the 500 fluting is only faintly visible and the
 secondary maxima entirely disappear.        We get only the brightest,
 least refrangible member of the compound fluting, together with a
 simple fringe of light without structure on the more refrangible side.
 This experiment was shown at the Royal Society Conversazione in
 May, 1889, and a note upon it may be found on page 13 of the pro
gramme.       The experiment has recently been repeated and fully
confirmed with a four-prism Steinheil spectroscope.          It was found
best to adjnst the dark glasses so that two or three of the maxima were
seen when the magnesium was burning ; then, when the magnesium
was just dying out, only the least refrangible one, with a slight fringe,
 was seen.
    The greater luminosity of the first maximum and its fringe has also
been observed in another way.          Magnesia, volatilised in the oxy-
hydrogen    flame,  with the proportion of gases properly adjusted, gives
the compound fluting pretty bright.           If, then, the quantity of
hydrogen     be  increased  or diminished  gradually,  whilst the oxygen
remains constant, the fluting gradually disappears, but the first
maximum and its fringe are seen when all the others have dis
appeared.
    Numerous     photographs have also been obtained which show the
first maximum brighter than any of the secondary ones.
    These experiments not only show that the first maximum is brighter
than the secondary ones, but further, that some of the fringe on the
more refrangible side of it is also brighter. In observations of nebulae,
therefore, if the chief line be due to magnesium only a very slight
fringe would be observed unless the luminosity be sufficient to render
visible some of the secondary maxima.
    I have shown, therefore, that many records exist as to the fluted
                                        —
appearance of the chief nebula line records that amply justify the

           On the Chief Line in     the Spectrum       of  the Nebulce. 197
identification of it with the low-temperature magnesinm Anting near
500, an origin that seemed most probable from my experiments on
the spectra of meteorites.     The fact that one or two published obser
vations have now been practically withdrawn does not affect the
main issue in the faintest degree.
    Whatever the chemical origin of the line, the historical statement
I have just given affords good grounds for believing that it is certainly
a remnant of a fluting.
                               V. Conclusion.
    The facts recorded in this paper seem to me to demonstrate con
clusively that the line under discussion is due as the induction
suggested to magnesium.
    High dispersion has been employed, and we now know that the line
seen in the meteoritic glows is truly the remnant of the magnesium
fluting.    We further know that the nebula line is coincident with the
edge of the magnesium fluting when the two are compared with a
four-prism spectroscope and a high magnifying power, both nebula
and magnesium being observed under absolutely the same conditions.
Even if we accept Dr. Huggins's observation of 1868, the nebula line
only differs in position from the magnesium fluting by a quarter of
the distance between the D lines, and we know that many sources of
error may explain that difference.
    Finally, many observations, both new and old, show that the nebnla
line resembles the first maximum of the magnesium fluting in having
a fringe on its more refrangible side, and I have shown that the
spectrum of magnesium may be observed under such conditions that
only the first maximum and its fringe are visible.
    The discussion of the other lines is reserved for a further communi
cation, as the work connected with them is not yet completed.
    With regard to the concluding part of Dr. and Mrs. Huggins's
 paper,  I have recently sent in communications to the Royal Society
 from which it will be gathered how independent the meteoritic hypo
 thesis is of the visible radiation of magnesium in meteorites at the
 temperature of nebula. But whether the line referred to in this
 paper be due to magnesium or not, I am glad to find that Dr. Hnggins
 has so far accepted the views which I have recently put forward
  as to admit in the paper under reply that the nebulae may
  "represent an early stage in the evolutionary changes of the
  heavenly bodies," and that they may stand at or near tbe beginning
  of the evolutionary cycle so far as we can know it ;* whereas he
                        " the nebulae which give a gaseous spectrum
  formerly held that
  are systems possessing a structure, and a purpose in relation to
                       • ' Boy. Soc. Proc.,' toI. 46,
                                                      p. 59.

198          Note on   the Spectrum         of the Nebula of Orion.
the universe,   altogether    distinct and of another order from the
group   of  cosmical   bodies   to •which our Sun and the fixed stars
belong ; "*  and that :  " We have in these objects to do no longer
with a special modification only of our own type of Suns, but find
ourselves in the presence of objects possessing a peculiar and distinct
plan of structure. "f I shall take a subsequent opportunity of showing
how untenable is the view he now communicates, that, although the
nebulas represent early evolutionary forms, they are at a high tem
perature and that the constituents of the mass are arranged in the
order of their vapour densities.     I refrain from discussing these points
on the present occasion ; but       I
                                   may remark that if such a view were
true, and we further accept the statements that the nebula line was
seen in the comets of 1866-67 and that Nova Cygni probably exists as
a planetary nebula of small angular diameter, we are driven to the
conclusion that comets reduce their temperature as they approach the
Sun, and that "new stars" get hotter as their luminosity diminishes.
"Note on the Spectrum of the Nebula of Orion." By J. NORMAN
   Lockyer, F.R.S. Received and read February 13, 1890.
    In   former communication
         a                              I
                                    gave in detail observations made by
means of a siderostat, which seemed to put beyond all reasonable
doubt the question of the origin and true wave-length of the chief
nebula line. Although, as I stated in the communication referred to,
I  regard this question as one of secondary importance, I have com
menced another series of investigations with a view of eliminating
all possible instrumental errors.        The new method has not been
completely   carried  out, but a sufficient   approximation to it has been
reached to render the results obtained of some interest.
    Using the siderostat, object-glass, and collimator as before de
scribed, the method in question consists in using a vacuum tube,
giving the lines both of hydrogen and nitrogen in front of the slit of
the collimator.     The tube made for this purpose was found to have
leaked when there was an opportunity of using             so that the obser
                                                                  it,
vations of hydrogen and nitrogen,          in  comparison with the nebula
lines, have not been made in the same field of view at the same time.
The hydrogen tube and an air spark with iron poles (iron poles
being chosen in order to check the position of the nebula line near
X  495) were, however, placed alternately in front of the slit of the
collimator, and this enabled the observations to be made with almost
equal accuracy. I     give the following extract from the Observatory
                       •
                            Roy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 14, p.   42.
                        '
                    t  '
                            Phil. Tran$.,' 1864, p. 442.

       On Photographs     of tfie Spectrum of tlie Nebula   in Orion.   199
note-book.       The observations were made by Mr. Fowler (who was
assisted by     Mr.  Coppen) on February 5 : —
    " Made farther observations of the nebula of Orion with 4-prism
Steinheil spectroscope.       First compared nebula spectrum with spec-
tram of spark between iron poles close to slit, the secondary collimator
not being used at all.
     " Results. — 495 nebula line exactly coincident with iron line
4950 8. At the same time, the 500 nebula line was certainly less
refrangible than the nitrogen lines.
     " Next adjusted collimator and put hydrogen tube and iron spark
successively in front of slit.
    " Results. — 3rd nebula line coincident with F line of
                                                              hydrogen.
    " 495 line coincident with iron 4956"8.
    " 500 line less refrangible than nitrogen lines.
    " 500 line exactly coincident with magnesium fluting, whether the
magnesium was burned behind the slit of collimator or at the centre
of siderostat mirror."
     It will be seen that these observations entirely confirm those which
I   have already communicated to the Society, and also carry the work
a step further in the determination of the actual wave-length of the
nebula line near A. 495 by the siderostat and collimator method.
"Preliminary Note on Photographs of the Spectrum of the
        Nebula in Orion."         By J. Norman Lockyer, F.R.S. Re
        ceived and read February 13, 1890.
     In other communications to the Society,        I have shown that the
 chief nebula line coincides absolutely in position with the remnant of
 the fluting seen in the flame of burning magnesium near X 500, with
 the highest dispersion we could command at South Kensington.
 Attempts have recently been made, therefore, with the 30-inch
 reflector at Westgate-on-Sea, to obtain photographs of the spectrum
 of the nebula, using magnesium as the term of comparison.               The
 objects sought were, primarily, to determine whether there was a
  line in the nebula corresponding with one of the lines of the magne
  sium triplet about X. 373, and to obtain as complete a photographic
  record as possible of the spectrum between this triplet and X.500.
  With this view, Mawson's instantaneous plates were used, these
  having been found to be fairly sensitive to the green.       The exposures
  have been carried up to four hours, and five photographs have already
  been taken, some     of them with shorter exposures than that named, in
  consequence of the sky becoming clouded or irregularities in the
  driving clock, which is not yet completely finished.        One plate only
  was exposed      for four hours, on February    11, but, unfortunately, in
      VOL. XLVIII.                                                   p

200              Mr.   J. N.  Lockyer.      On Photographs   of
consequence of the high wind, the slit was covered for an unknown
part of this time by the velvet used to keep out stray light, and this
was not at once discovered, as the finder for directing the telescope is
at the lower end of the reflector tube, away from the spectroscope.
This photograph        only  shows    three or four of the more prominent
lines, but they are all sharply defined.        The other photographs were
taken on February 2, 8, 9, and 10, the last with an exposure of three
hours.
    As a collimator has not yet been fitted to the tube of the reflector,
the exposure of the plate to the flame of burning magnesium was
made by closing the mirror cover, and burning magnesium at its
exact centre.       One half of the slit was exposed to the nebula, and
the other half     to the magnesium.
     Two prisms of     60° were employed.      The part of the nebula photo
graphed    was    the   bright  portion  preceding the Trapezium.    Tn some
cases, in consequence of clock irregularities, the stars of the Trapezium
 have imprinted their spectra upon the plates, but these in no way
 interfere with the spectrum of the nebula, since a longish slit was
 used, and the spectra of the stars are narrow.
     There is a remarkable and almost absolute similarity between the
 photographs obtained.         The best one, taken on February 10, shows
 all the lines of the other photographs in addition to others, and this
 has therefore been selected for the determination of wave-lengths ; it
 contains at least twenty-eight lines, about eight of them falling
  between F and G.
     The principal lines are the three ordinarily seen in the visible
  spectrum, the lines of hydrogen at G, h, and H, and the strong line
 in the ultra-violet near      \ 373.    G is by far the strongest line in the
  spectrum. The wave-length of the least refrangible line on the photo
  graph was taken as 5006'5, as determined at Kensington, and this,
  together with the hydrogen lines and the ultra-violet magnesium
  triplet in the comparison spectrum, formed the basis of the curve for
  determining the positions of the fainter lines.
     The lines next in importance to those already mentioned are near
  wave-lengths 4470, 3890, and 3870. The first of these, the strongest
  between F and G, is probably the line observed by Dr. Copeland, and,
  as T have stated in a previous paper, is possibly Lorenzoni's       / of the
                                  There are also two fairly obvious lines
   chromosphere spectrum.
  between   F   and 495.
      Amongst the fainter lines, the most prominent are near X 4027 and
  4045, the former doubtless being the strong fine triplet seen in the
  flame spectrum of manganese.
      Other still fainter lines are also shown, amongst which the most
  interesting are the flame lines of calcium near 3933 (K) and 4226,
  and lines near 4690 and 4735, which are probably the boundaries of

                    the Spectrum   of  the Nebula in Orion.              201
the compound carbon fluting. It seems, therefore, probable that all
the fainter lines are either due to carbon or to low-temperature
metallic lines.
    It  is a very striking fact that some of the chief lines are ap
parently coincident, although the statement is made with reserve,
with the chief bright lines in P Cygni, a magnificent photograph
of which I owe to the kindness of Professor Pickei'ing ; it is one of
the Henry Draper Memorial photographs.
    The wave-length of the line about X.373 may, perhaps, even yet
not be considered quite settled ; but this much may be said, that, in
those photographs in which the chief nebula line is sensibly coinci
 dent with the magnesium fluting, the ultra-violet line is very nearly,
 if not quit?, coincident with the least refrangible member of the mag
 nesium triplet (X.3730).         This, however, is somewhat uncertain,
 because of the over-exposure        of the magnesium spectrum.        It is
 certainly  not   coincident  with either  of the more refrangible  lines  of
 the triplet, as the measured distance between the two lines of the
 nebula is almost the same as that between the least refrangible line
and the fluting near X 500 of the magnesium spectrum.
    The most satisfactory determination of the position of the ultra
 violet line has been made by a comparison of the two photographs of
 February 10 and 11. The magntsium spectrum in the latter photo
 graph is more clearly defined than in the former one, the slit being
 narrower, and the other instrumental conditions remaining the
same.
    The distance between the fluting near 500 and the least refrangible
 member of the triplet on the photograph of February 11 was found to
 be very slightly less than that between the two nebula lines on the
 photograph of February 10.            According to these measures, the
nebula line falls between the two magnesium lines at 3730 aud 3724,
 about one-sixth of the distance between them from the former, giving
 its wave-length     as nearly 37^9.   These measures, however, must only
 be regarded as preliminary.
    A complete map is being prepared by Mr. Fowler, but, as it
 requires careful manipulation of the incident light for the detection of
 the more delicate lines, it is not yet completed.      I have asked Mr.
 Fowler to take complete charge of this work, for the reason that the
sensitiveness of my own eyes is somewhat impaired.
    I have finally to express my great obligations to Mr. Fowler for the
 zeal and patience which he has displayed in taking the photographs.
 He is entirely responsible for those taken on February 2, 10, and 11,
when     I was  away from Westgate.
    VOL.  XLVIII.                                                  Q

202               Dr. and Mrs. Huggins.                  On the  Principal
li On a Re-determination                   of the Principal Line in the Spec
       trum of the Nebula                in Orion, and on the Character of the
       Line."       By William Huggins, D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S., and
       Mrs.   Huggins.          Received March 20, — Read June 12, 1890.
     We think it desirable to put on record the results of are-determina
tion of the position of the principal line in the spectrum of the nebula
in Orion, under the more favourable conditions of a higher position of
the nebula, and of some improvements in the instrumental arrange
ments.* The spectroscopes have been furnished with new and sensibly
 perfect object-glasses by Sir Howard Grubb, and a new bright pointer
has been fitted to the spectroscopes by Mr. Hilger, which is illuminated
 by a small incandescent lamp, of which the brightness is controlled by
suitable resistances.           In all other respects the instrumental arrange
 ments have remained unaltered.                    The same spectroscope, giving a
dispersion of about four prisms, which was described in my paper of
 1872 as Spectroscope B,t and was used in the work on this line con
                                            J
 tained in my paper of 1874, and also throughout the work of last
year, with the exception of one single confirmatory observation with
 a more powerful spectroscope, § was employed in the present investiga
 tion, and also the same arrangements for the comparison spectrum
from burning magnesium.
     In my earlier spectroscopic work I pointed out that a possible paral
 lactic error of the comparison spectrum may easily come in when a
 small reflecting prism is placed in the usual way before one half of the
 slit; and also the possibility of errors from the unavoidable flexure
 of the spectroscope or of its attachments to the telescope. In 1872,                      I
                                            " the
 adopted the plan of placing                        spark or vacuum-tube within the
 telescope     at a  moderate       distance    from   the slit.  For this purpose holes
 were drilled in the telescope-tube, opposite to each other, at a distance
 of 2 feet 6 inches within the principal focus. Tubes were fixed by
 screws over these holes, and in these tubes slide suitable                    holders   for
     *       a communication       last January to the Royal Society, Professor Lockyer
        [In
  stated that lie and his assistants      had by different methods and with great dispersion
  compared    directly the   chief  line  in the spectrum of the Nebula in Orion with the
  band of the magnesium-flame         spectrum, and that they had found perfect coincidence
  between the nebular line and the terminal line of the band. Professor Lockytr
  also stated that they had always seen the line as a fluting.       These statements being
  in direct contradiction to my early observations and to the conclusions of our pajwr
  of last year, the necessity was thrown upon us of going over our work again. —
  July   4.]
                        t  '
                             Roy. Soc. Proc.,' toI. 20, 1872, p. 382.
                           '
                        t    Roy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 22, 1874, p. 252.
                           '
                        §    Roy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 46, 188U, pp. 50, 51.

             Line in   the Spectrum     of   the  Nebula in Orion.        203
carrying electrodes or vacuum-tubes.                The final adjustment was
tested by the comparison of the bright lines of magnesium and the
double line of sodium with the Fraunhofer lines 6 and D in the
spectrum of the Moon."*
   I have since adopted an arrangement in which, when once adjusted,
any sensible parallactic effect from a change of position of the source
of light seems to be impossible, for even a minute motion of the spark
or other source of light for comparison has the effect of throwing the
light to one side, without the slit; so that, as long as the comparison
spectrum is seen, there can be no doubt that the direction of the light
for comparison, as it fell upon the slit, had remained invariably the
same, relatively to the optical axis of the telescope, and consequently
to the celestial spectrum under observation.
   In the diagram, abed represents a section of the telescope-tube
near the middle of its length ; within this is firmly screwed a thin
steel arm, e, carrying a minute mirror, /. This mirror is about a
quarter of an inch in width, and of about the same apparent length,
when seen fore-shortened from the slit.               The mirror is fixed at a
distance of b" feet 6 inches within the principal focus, where the slit
is placed.   In the side of the tube opposite the face of the mirror is
a small hole, through which the light from the collimator g passes on
to the mirror.    At the other end of the collimator, which has a length
of about 7  inches,  is a diaphragm with a small hole, h, before which
the source of light, whether an induction spark, a vacuum-tube, or
                        • ' Boy. Soc. Proc.,' toI. 20, p. 382.
                                                                    U  2

204               Dr. and Mrs. Huggine.             On the  Principal
 burning magnesium, is placed. The lens at g is so placed as to bring
 the light approximately to focus at the place of the slit.
    It is obvious that with this arrangement an extremely small shift
 of the light before the hole h would be sufficient to causo the ray
 reflected from the mirror to go off the slit, and that the reflected light
 can pass into the slit only so long as its direct ion remains sensibly invari
 able relatively to the optical axis of the telescope. It is also obvious
 that any flexure in the spectroscope, or in the tube connecting it to the
 telescope, would affect similarly the light from the nebula and from
 the magnesium.          The precaution was taken, however, to so orient the
 spectroscope, that any flexure             from the weight of the instrument
 would be in the direction of the          length of the slit.
    The coincidence or otherwise          of the direction of the light reflected
from the little mirror with the             optical axis of the telescope can be
 determined by comparing the spectrum of burning magnesium with 6
 iu the spectrum of the Moon, or in that of the light of the sky. As an
additional safeguard in the comparison of the spectrum of the nebula
 with magnesium, since my early observations had shown the nebular
 line to be very slightly more refrangible, the mirror was purposely so
 adjusted that, though the lines of the burning magnesium were seen
 to fall upon the corresponding dark lines 6 in the Moon or sky,
yet a careful observation would show a very minute overlapping
 of the bright lines towards the blue.               This state of things would
 diminish     a  little the interval     which should be seen between the
 nebular line,     and    the  termination    of the magnesium-flame band and
 so make the observation more difficult.              It is evident that if under
 such circnmstances of adjustment the nebular line were seen on the
 more refrangible side of the magnesia band, the observation, being a
 delicate one, would be more trustworthy, for in the case of coincidence
 with magnesium the lino would nppear towards the opposite and less
 refrangible side of the magnesia line, broadening the line towards the
 red (Zoc. cit., p. 49).
    The stability of         this adjustment depends upon the rigidity of
 position   of  the  little   mirror within the telescope; as this weighs only
 a small fraction of an ounce, and is supported by a strong steel arm
 firmly attached by four screws to the steel tube of the telescope, there
is an almost complete absence of any chance of its displacement.
During twelve months not the smallest alteration has been detected,
thongh very careful examinations have been frequently made.
    At   the time the comparisons            were   made last   year, namely,  in
 March, the nebula was getting low, and from perhaps an excess of
caution     I   described them as follows : " Although I consider the
results to be satisfactory, I prefer to say that I and Mrs. Huggins,
independently, believed fully at the time that we saw the appearance
which all former observations of the line led me to expect, namely,

              Line in    the Spectrum    of the Nebula in Orion.             20.5
the nebular line to fall within the termination of the magnesium
band" (Joe. cit., p. 49).
    This year the position of the nebular line within the termination
of the magnesia band has been confirmed by both of us independently
on several nights.
    The more refrangible position of the nebular line relatively to the
termination line of the MgO band has been ascertained not only by
repeated comparisons of the two spectra by means of a suitably
illuminated pointer, but also this year, as last year, by occasional
moments of direct vision of the nebular line upon and within the
magnesia     band.     It  is only occasionally   that the necessary relative
brightness of the band can be secured, but such moments of direct
vision of the two spectra are very trustworthy.
    On February Oth, Professor Liveing made some observations on
the spectrum of the nebula, and I have his permission to quote from
the notes which he entered at the time in my observatory book.
During the afternoon he examined the adjustments of the little
mirror.    His words are         " Observed in Dr.
                               :                       Huggins' spectroscope
attached to his telescope the Fraunhofer lines b, as given by the
clouds, and the bright lines of burning magnesium thrown in by
reflexion.    The solar spectrum was but faint, so that it was necessary
to use rather a wide slit.       I observed a close coincidence between the
dark lines of the sky light and the bright lines of the burning mag
nesium ; the two overlapped, but the dark lines extended a very little
on the less refrangible side, the brightest line a very little on the more
refrangible side beyond the dark Hue."
    In the evening   he observed the nebula, and recorded his observations
in the following words : — "Observed the spectrum of the nebula in
 Orion, and compared the position of the least refrangible line with
 the magnesia fluting. The latter was thrown in by reflection from
 burning magnesium.          I put the nebular line on the pointer first, and
 then from time to time the magnesium was burnt. I made quite sure
 that the edge of the magnesia fluting was less refrangible than the
 nebular line ; repeated the observations several times. Tried to sen
 both the nebular line and the fluting at the same time, but found it
 hard to see both at once, but I still came to the same conclusion,
 namely, that the edge of the fluting was less refrangible than the
 nebular line."
    Afterwards, Professor Liveing observed the third line of the
 nebnla, together with H/3 from a vacnum-tube.             He says : — " Com
 pared the position of the most refrangible of the nebular lines with
 the F line of hydrogen thrown in by reflexion from a vacuum-tube,
 the coincidence seemed perfect, the one line falling upon the other."*
    •
      [On April 29, Professor Liveing waB kind enough to go over again with us the
 arrangements for the comparison spectrum, and, in particular, to see if any error

20(5             Dr. and Mrs. Huggins.                 On the  Principal
   We have since gone further, and attempted a quantitative estima
tion of the distance of the nebular line within the termination of the
band. For this purpose we made use of the minute apparent breadth
of the illuminated pointpr-tip as a measuring unit. The value of
this unit was determined by measuring with it the distance of 6S from
64  in the solar spectrum.
   Independent estimations made by both of us on several occasions
agreed in assigning to this distance, after taking into account the
minute displacement of the comparison-spectrum                    by the   little mirror
towards the blue,
                               A   wave-length       of about                   X 0001-5.
   Deducting this distance from X 5O06"5, the position of the termina
tion of the band, we get for the nebular line
                               A position of about                              X 5005 0.
   At   the time of these observations              the earth's motion caused the
nebular line to be degraded towards the red by about X 0000-25. If,
therefore, the Great Nebula has no motion of its own, this interval
must be deducted from the observed position of the nebular line,
                               Placing it at about                             X 5004-75.
   The observations recorded in the paper of 1874* gave the position
of the nebular line relatively to the fiducial lead line with an accuracy
not loss than X 0000-5.             This relative position was translated into
wave-lengths in our paper on the Nebula (loe. eit., p. 45), showing
that the nebular line lies from about X 5004 6 to about X 5004 8.
    The question whether this nebula has a motion in the line of sight
could possibly arise from a change of position of the magnesium during its burning.
After a detailed account of the experiments, he wrote in my note-book : — " could  I
not detect any shift ; and      I came to the conclusion that there is no sensible shift
due to moving the burning magnesium.             I next compared the position of the lead
line near the edge of the MgO band, as seen in the same spectroscope detached
from the telescope, with the said edge of the band.           Both could be seen at the
same time, and the apparent distance between them was so great that even if there
should be some shift of the lines from the method of throwing in the light when
the spectroscope is attached to the telescope, I am satisfied (hat it could not amount
to anything comparable with the distance between the lend line and the edge of the
MgO fluting. So far as my memory will serve, the distance from the edge of the
MgO fluting at which the nebular line appeared when I observed it on February 9
was not far short of the distance now observed between the lead line and the edge
of the MgO fluting." — July 4.]
   * ' Roy. Soc. Proe.,' vol. 22, 1 874, p. 25 1. This paper claims for the determination
of the position of this line in the case of seven nebnlie an accuracy sufficiently great to
show a motion of 25 mileB per second. This motion corresponds to about A 0000 67,
but as some of the nebula? were more difficult to observe than the briuht nebula in
Orion, the accuracy of the determination of the line in this nebula may certainly bo
taken as not less than the amount given in the text, namely, A 0U00 5.

                Line in   the Spectrum    of the  Nebula in Orion.            207
 must be determined        by comparisons of the third line with the corre
 sponding bright line of a hydrogen vacuum-tube.               The observations
 I recorded in 1874, as well as those of Mr. Maunder, of Greenwich
 (loc. cit., p. 60), "show that the nebula has very little, if any, sensible
 motion in the line of sight."
    The direct comparison was made on several nights with results
 similar to the observation that Professor Liveing recorded on
                                  " the coincidence seemed
 February 9, namely, that                                       perfect, the one
 line falling upon the other."
    We have endeavoured to push this observation further, to determine
if the coincidence was absolute, or whether there was a very minute
overlapping of the edges of the two lines. Tho adjustment of the
apparatus would throw the hydrogen line, to a very minute extent,
towards the blue, at the same time that the earth's motion would
 degrade the nebular line from the hydrogen line towards the red.
    The faintnessof the third line with a narrow slit does not permit us
 to speak with absolute certainty as to the extent which the hydrogen
 seemed to overlap the nebular line towards the bine.
    We were quite certain that the hydrogen line did overlap the
 nebula slightly towards the blue, but we were unable to determine
 whether the overlapping           corresponded     accurately to the earth's
 motion at the time of observation.            It appeared to do so approxi
                                                                         " nebula
 mately, which would support my former conclusion, that the
 has very little, if any, sensible motion in the line of sight."
                                       Part II.
   On the Character    of  the Principal Line in   the Spectrum   of the Nebula
                                      in Orion.
    In our paper last year (loc. cit., p. 53)    I stated that " my own obser
 vations of this line, since my discovery of it in 1864                     show
the line to become          narrow as the slit is made narrow, and to be
sharply and perfectly defined at both edges." We gave also the cor
roborative      evidence of two accurate        observers   who   have made a
special study of the spectrum of the gaseous           nebulee, Professor Vogel
and    Dr. Copeland.
    Since last year the defining power of the spectroscopes has been
improved by two new object-glasses by Sir Howard Grubb. '1 he
nebular line has been subjected on several nights to a very searching
examination with different widths of slit ; and with different magni
fying powers on two spectroscopes — the one with a single prism of
                        "               "
60°, the other, the        four-prism spectroscope (loc. cit., p 49).
    We came to the conclusion that a marked feature of this line is its
sharply-defined character on tho more refrangible side ; we were

208             Dr. and Mrs. Huggius.             On the  Principal
unable, under any of the conditions of observing, to detect even a
suspicion of any softening of the more refrangible edge of the line,
                                                "
much less the faintest indication of a flare," and certainly not the
distinctive peculiarity of a " fluting."
    In the case of observations with small dispersion, the eye is helped
by placing the second line, which then appears near the first, behind
a bar fixed in the eye-piece.
    Observations of the nebula in Orion by eye, as well as the photo
graphs of Mr. Common and of Mr. Roberts, show numerous small
irregularities in the brightness of the nebula, which give rise to a
closely-mottled appearance.          As the length of the slit takes in a con
siderable angular      extent   of nebula,   several of these irregularities of
brightness or "mottlings" are usually included within it, giving to
the nebular lines an irregularly bright or blotchy appearance. As the
nebula is allowed to pass over the slit this blotchy appearance is seen
to vary in the size and in the number of the brighter patches, and also in
their brightness relatively to the less luminous spaces between them.
At   the first glance, in some positions of the slit upon the nebula, the
lines, and especially the principal line as the brightest, appear almost
as if serrated at the edges.        A little attention soon shows that this is a
purely physiological effect due to the greater brightness of the patches,
and that the brighter parts of the line do not really project beyond the
less brilliant intervals between them.           One marked character of this
phenomenon       is that  both   edges  of  the   lines appear equally serrated,
and that there is no indication of a spreading of the brighter patches
towards the blue only.         It is easily ascertained that this more or less
patchy   condition    is not  peculiar to the principal line, for precisely the
same    patches can be detected in the other two lines, and the patches
can be seen to correspond in number and in position within the
lines.
    These observations, repeated on several nights, have left no doubt
 in our minds that the principal line is certainly as sharp and as
 bright on the side towards the blue as on the less refrangible side.
    On February 9, Professor Liveing scrutinised the character of this
 line. His words are : — " Observed the nebular line with various
 widths of slit.       The line always appeared sharply defined on the
 more refrangible side, whether the slit were wide or narrow.                 On
 gradually closing the slit, the line fined down to a very fine line.
 The same appearance as to sharpness on the more refrangible side
 was observable with a spectroscope of less dispersive power and with
 eye-pieces of low power as with the higher dispersion and greater
 magnification."
    The observations recorded in this paper appear to            us to show con
 clusively : —

                  Line in       the Spectrum      of  the  Nebula in Orion.               209
     (1.) That the principal line is not coincident with, bnt falls within,
the termination of the magnesium-flame band.*
     (2.) That in the nebula of Orion this line presents no appearance
of being a " fluting."
    It is scarcely needful to say that, in the face of the observations
recorded in this paper, we are not able to accept the conclusions
arrived at by Professor Lockyer in his recent communicationsf to the
Royal Society. From them it would appear that Professor Lockyer
confirms my statement made in 1 874, J that the second line "is
sensibly coincident with an iron wave-length 4957 "(Thalen, X.4956'8;
Liveing and Dewar, X 4956 9); and also that Professor Lockyer's
photographs confirm my photographs of 1882, 1888, and 1889, in that
it is a single strong line, and not a triplet, which appears in the ultra
violet region, and that this strong line is more refrangible than the
first component of the magnesic oxide triplet.§
                       Addendum.             Received     June    6, 1890.
                       1. Addendum on the Position            of  the Line.
     One of the planetary nebul®, in the spectra of which                        I  found in
my earlier comparisons with lead|| in 1874, that the principal line had
sensibly the same position as the corresponding line in the nebula of
Orion was 2. 5 (G. C. 4234). We have now compared again the
principal line in this nebula with the lead line \ 5004p5 with the same
spectroscope (spectroscope B, 3rd eye-piece) and an arrangement for
    *
       [Even if the nebular line appeared        to be sensibly coincident under the amount
of dispersion which can be brought           to bear upon the nebula',   for reasons stated in
 our paper of last year (loc. cit., p. 55, foot-note), the evidence would be strongly in
 favour of the view that the coinc idence was apparent only, and against the assump
 tion that the nebular line was to be regarded as the
                                                              " remnant " of the
                                                                                   magnesium-
 flame band.       We did not, however, give sufficient prominence to the fact of the
 great brilliancy of the line in many nebula?, without the faintest traces of the
 second and third flutings.          The relative intensities of the brightest ends of these
 (lutings are : —
                     1st fluting                                            8
                     2nd     „                                              7
                     3rd     „                                              5
           '
 (Watts,     Index of Spectra,' p. 175). However, the position of the nebular line at a
 measurable     distance from the terminal line of the magnesium-flame          band towards
 the blue makes such considerations superfluous, and disposes Anally of the assertion
                                    " remnant "
 that the nebular line is the                    of the magnesium fluting. — July 4.]
       '
    +    Roy.  Soc.  Proc.,'   vol. 47, p. 129 and  p. 189, 4c.
       •
    X    Roy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 22, p. 252.
       '
    5    Roy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 46, p. 54.
       '
    ||   Roy.  Soc. Proc ,' vol. 22, 1874, p. 254.

210           Dr. and Mrs. Huggins.                On the    Principal
the comparison spectrum similar to that described in the first part of
this paper, bat in which the small mirror has been replaced by a very
small total reflecting prism.    The correctness of position of the
comparison spectrum was ascertained by repeated comparisons of the
bright lines of magnesium at 6 with the corresponding dark lines in
the Sun's light reflected from the sky.
  When in this spectroscope the spectrum of lead is observed
together with that of burning magnesium, the lead line is seen to fall
well within, and to be separated by a clear spaoo from, the terminal
line of the magnesium-flame fluting.
   The principal line of 2. 5, like that of the nebula of Orion, appears
when the slit is made narrow to be very thin and clearly defined at
both edges.    The lead line is a thin and defined line ; if, therefore,
the nebular  line were coincident with the terminal line of the
magnesium-flame fluting, it would appear in the spectroscope to be
separated by a clear space from the lead line towards the red. As
the angular diameter of the nebula is small, the line is much shorter
than the lead line — not longer than about one-third of the height of
the spectrum, and consequently its position relatively to            the lead line,
even when it falls partly upon         it,
                                 can be very accurately                  determined.
   The nebular line was seen as  short thin bright line
                                       a                                 partly upon,
and partly clinging to, the lead lino.     The nebular                   line in our
instrument certainly fell upon the lead line, but overlapped  a very        it
little, though not so much as by halt' its breadth, on the less
refrangible side. This position agrees precisely with that described
in my early observations made nearly twenty years ago, when
employed for the first time lead as a fiducial comparison line.*                 AsI I
stated in 187-1, "
              f   if  greater prism power could be brought to                    bear
upon the nebula?, the line in the lead spectrum would be found                   to bo
in small degree more refrangible than the line in the nebula;"
     a                                                                            and,
of  course, if sufficient power of dispersion were employed, the
nebular line would be seen separated from the lead line towards the
red, and not, as in our instrument, partly upon the lead line.
   These observations, both those by myself in 1874 and the recent
observations made by both of us independently on four different
nights, place the nebular line exactly where  was ound to be by our
                                                        it
direct comparisons     with burning magnesium in the nebula of
Orion (which were confirmed by Professor Liveing), namely, as not
coincident with, but as falling well within, the terminal line of
the magnesium- flame spectrum.
   It should be stated that on two nights we made comparisons of
2.   5with burning magnesium, both directly, and indirectly by means
of the illuminated pointer.           The observations        completely confirmed
                   *   '
                           T?ny   Soc. Proe.,' rol. 22, p. 252.
                  t    Hid.

               Line in    the Spectrum      of the  Nebula in Orion.           211
 the results of the lead           comparison*, which were, however, more
easily   made,   as   it is difficult   to see the exact position of the short
nebular line when it is upon the bright fluting.*
                   2. Addendum on the Character        of  the Line.
   I am   permitted by Dr. Copeland, Professor Young, and Mr. Keeler,
of the   Lick Observatory, to quote the following observations, which
they have been so kind as to make at my request, of the character of
the principal line in the spectrum of the Great Nebula in Orion.
                                                              I
   Dr. Copeland writes, dated March 26, 1890 : " find it difficult to
make anything satisfactory of nebular spectra with my present
apparatus, working in the smoke of Edinburgh                           On the 14th
1 saw the three lines as well as         I am likely to see them until we get
to work at the new observatory.             All the lines were just as broad as
the slit ; when the slit was wide open they were broad, and when
the slit    was closed      slowly they gradually         became narrower and
narrower."
    Professor Toung, writing on March 21, 1890, says:                  "I have not
been able this winter to try the observations for wave-length, having
no convenience for the comparison spectrum, but                   I  have carefully
examined the spectrum of the nebula of Orion, both with a heavy
glass prism, and with a grating of 14,000 to the inch, and a collimator
of   16 inches focus.     With the prism the brightest nebular line seemed
absolutely sharp,      and  cleanly defined on both sides; with the grating
the line was fainter, and 1 could not use so narrow a slit, the dispersion
was much higher also        ;  the line therefore was a little hazy, but equally
go on both sides."
    At the Lick Observatory there was             a continuance     of bad weather
during the early months of the year, but Mr.                    Keoler,   with Dr.
Holden's kind permission, observed the nebula on two nights.                    He
observed successively         with  one   prism,  a powerful compound prism,
and then with a Rowland grating, 14,000 + lines to the inch. With
this grating, the collimator was 20 inches in length, the observing
telescope 10£ inches, with an eye-piece magnifying 13-3 times.                 The
slit was narrow, 0'0025 inch. The spectra up to the fourth order
were employed.
   Mr. Keeler says : " One thing that struck rue particularly, and
that there could be no doubt of, was the perfect sharpness and
   •
      [On one night, as had been frequently done when we were observing the nebula
in Orion, after the comparison of the nebula with lead and magnt-sium had been
made, the spectroscope was left attached to the telescope in order that we might
verify the correctness of position of the comparison spectrum by means of the light
of sky on the following day, without any change whutever having taken place in the
adjustments of the instrument. The result of this verification wus, as always when
working on Orion, absolutely satisfactory. — July 4.]

212      Principal Line in      the Spectrum     of   the Nebula in Orion.
fineness of the nebular lines under the very considerable dispersion
used. There is not the least doubt in my mind that they are all of
                                                        "
gaseous origin — not remnants of flutings.'
                           '
     [The observations with large dispersion by Professor Young, and
especially those of Mr. Keeler, after observing with one prism, and
then with a compound prism, that the line remained sharp even when
examined in the 4th spectrum of a grating 14,000 + to the inch,
are of great value in regard to Mr. Maunder's observations.                  It was
on one occasion only when he made use of the very great disper
sion of 80° from A to H, equal to about sixteen prisms of 60", that
 he observed the nebular line to be otherwise than sharp and de
 fined.     On  this    unique occasion he says: "The three lines were
 seen as narrow bright lines, but none of them were perfectly sharp ;
 each showed a slight raggedness at both edges, but in the case of
 the line near    \   5005 it was clear that this fringe or raggedness was
 more developed towards the blue." Mr. Maunder significantly adds :
 " In the case of the other two lines they were not bright
                                                                         enough for
 it to   be possible     to ascertain whether the fringes were symmetrical
 or not." *    The new observations at Princeton and at the Lick Ob
 servatory would seem to leave little doubt that if the other lines hail
 been as bright as the principal line, the raggedness about them would
 have been found to be equally unsymmetrical, and that the want of
 symmetry affected all three lines, and was probably instrumental. —
 July 4.]
                  Second Addendum.            Keceived July 4.
                             On the Position of the Line.
      On account of the unusual weather at the Lick Observatory during
  the early part of this year, Dr. Holden informs me that " The ob
  serving    chances      have   been  amazingly small." For this reason,
  although, in addition to the observations on the character of the chief
  line in the nebula of Orion, measurements of its position were
  attempted on two nights, the interruption from clouds was so constant
  that they could not be satisfactorily completed.
      Under these circumstances, I asked Dr. Holden to have the kind
  ness to telegraph to me if Mr. Keeler should be able to confirm the
  position of the line as not coincident with the magnesium- Same fluting
  in the nebula 2. 5.
      On June 15th, I received a telegram with the words : " Confirmed
  Struve. 5. Keeler."
      I have received since a letter from Mr. Keeler, dated June 14th,
   1890, in which he says : — Last night I compared the brightest line
                                  "
                 •  '
                      Monthly Notices, R. A. S.,' vol. 49, 1889, p. 308.

           Photographic Spectrum of          the Great   Nebula in Orion.   213
in the spectrum of 2. 5 with the magnesium fluting of nearly the
same wave-length, and I am glad to say that my observations were
in accordance with your own." . . . . " On comparing the
brightest line with the magnesium fluting, both directly and by aid
of the micrometer wire, the line was seen to be well within the
limits of the fluting, and separated by a small but unmistakable
interval from its bright lower edge. The appearance was the same
on both sides of the grating, and in the 3rd and 4th spectra. The
comparison apparatus was carefully adjusted, and no shifting of the
line was cau&ed by changing the position of the spark. The edge
of the fluting could not be brought into coincidence with the nebular
 line. No measurement of the difference of wave-length was made,
 as my attention was directed to the main fact of the non-coincidence
 of the line in all positions of the instrument. I will make such
 measures as soon as possible."
  " Note on the Photographic Spectrum of the Great Nehula in
         Orion."    By William Huggins, D.C.L., LL.D., F.K.S., and
         Mrs. HUGGINS.       Received       April 16,— Read June     12, 1890.
     From an examination of the photographs of the spectrum of the
  nebula in Orion taken by us in 1882, 1888, and 1889, we suggested
  in our paper " On the Spectrum, Visible and Photographic, of the
  Great Nebula in Orion,"* " that the mottled and broken-up character
  df the nebular matter shown in Lord Rosse's drawings from eye-
  observations, and much more strikingly brought out in the recent
  photographs of Mr. Common and of Mr. Roberts, may be connected
   with differences of spectrum in the photographic region, though in
  the visible region there is no known alteration of the spectrum of the
   four bright lines, except it may be some small differences of relative
   brilliancy of the lines. Until next winter we cannot go beyond the
   new information which these photographs give to us."
      Unfortunately, the necessity thrown upon us of making a laborious
   redetermination of the position and character of the principal line in
   the visible spectrum,t which has confirmed in every point the results
   contained in our paper of last year (foe. cit.), has deprived us of the
   more favourable opportunities during the past season of carrying out
   our intention of photographing the spectra of different parts of the
   nebula.
      We have obtained two photographs only, one taken on March 14th
   and 15th, and the other on March 17th ; but these suggest how much
                 • ' Roy. Soc. Proc.,* vol. 46, p. 42.
                 t '
                     Roy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 47, pp. 129 and 189, Ac.

214               Dr. and Mrs. Huggins.                 On the Photographic
information       a spectroscopic examination                by photography of the nebula
in detail would probably give to us.
   These photographs, taken of almost the same part of the nebula as
the photograph of 1889, showed, to our surprise, the lines of hydrogen
at h and at H strongly impressed upon the plate, though these lines
were carefully searched for in vain in our former photographs ; in
them no trace of these lines could be detected, but the line near G was
strong, and there was present a large number of faint lines, of
about thirty of which the approximate measures were given in our
paper.
  The new photographs show not only the lines of hydrogen nt h
and H, bnt also the first two lines of the ultra-violet series in the
white stars which I described in 1879.*     Four of these lines had
been photographed in the spectrum of hydrogen by Dr. H. W. Vogel,
in 1879, and the entire series, with the exception of one, has been
since obtained by Cornu in exceptionally pure hydrogen. f
   The line * at X 3887 8 is strong, and the next line /3 at X 3834                                 -5,
though much fainter,    certainly present. There
                                  is                evidence of light-      is
nctiou on the plate at the position of the line  which we believe to  y
be present   and we suspect, from traces of photographic action, that
              ;
one or more of the other lines of the white star series might have
come out  with a longer exposure.
   It isnot necessary to point out in the present note the importance
of the presence of these more refrangible lines of hydrogen in
respect of the view we have to take of the condition of things in the
nebula.       In this connexion           it   is   significant      that the hydrogen lines
are sensibly stronger and broader on the plate as the Trapezium                                  with
its stars   approached.
             is
  Between the hydrogen lines a and         there    a line stronger even
                                                        (3           is
than a, which has a wave-length of about        3868.          X
   We do not find any line in the photograph exactly at the place of
the solar line K the position of this line appears to correspond to a
                           ;
gap between two lines on the plate. We suspect the broad line on
the less refrangible side of the place of K would probably be resolved
by a narrower slit into two or more lines.
  The strong line which was first seen in our photograph of the
nebula taken in 1882     certainly stronger than H7, and
                                  is                        by far the                  is
most powerful line in the photographic region.     On account of the
wide slit employed in my original photograph,         put the line at       I
about   3730
         X    from measures of the line in a photograph taken in
                   ;
1889, with a narrower slit, we found that its position was more re
frangible, and we gave the approximate wave-length " about 3724."                            X
There was necessarily some difficulty in determining its position
                   *   '
                           Phil. Trans.,' 1880,p.669.
                  t    '
                           Journal de Physique,' 2nd    eer., vol.   B,   Aug., 1886.

                 Spectrum   of  the Great Nebula in Orion.                215
exactly on account of the small scale on which, from the faintuess
of the light of the nebula, it is desirable with the telescope at our
disposal to take the photographs, and also because in the nebular
spectrum itself we had no fiducial line nearer than H7. In the photo
graphs taken this year we have the advantage of the known position
of the hydrogen line at H, and with the help of this line our recent
                                     "
                             " about must be interpreted as slightly less
measures show that the
refrangible than X 3724. Without attempting to fix its position abso
lutely, we believe that the line will be found to fall between X 3725
and X 3726.       It is not needful to point out that measures of these
little photographs cannot compare in accuracy with direct com
parisons with considerable dispersion, as in the case of onr observations
of the chief line of the nebula by eye. It is, however, now certain
that the line does not coincide with any one of the three components
of the magnesic oxide triplet, but is less refrangible than the middle
line at X 3724, and falls between this line and the first line of the
 triplet at X 3730.
     In these photographs there is a strong line, besides many faint lines,
 on the less refrangible side of G.
     The background of the spectrum is seen to contain numerous faint
 lines, which, as far as we have been able to identify them, are the
 same as those seen in our earlier photographs, of some of which ap
 proximate measures were given in our paper, but they are, possibly on
 account of a slightly wider slit, not so easily measured as they were
 in the former photographs, in which no traces of the hydrogen lines at
 h and at H could be detected.
     A marked feature of the lines consists of their abruptly different
 intensities at different parts of their length, giving the blotchy appear
 ance which is characteristic of the lines in the visible spectrum, and
                                                 "
 which we have described in our recent paper On a Redetermination of
  the Position and Character of the Principal Line in the Spectrum of
  the Nebula in Orion." The length of the slit takes in a large angular
  extent of the nebula, and, therefore, usually includes within it one or
                          "            " which are so well shown in
  more of the brighter      mottlings                                   photo
  graphs of the nebula.       It is to be remarked that these brighter
  blotches are sharply bounded, showing that the different parts of the
  nebula arc to some extent distinct and often become suddenly brighter
  than the neighbouring parts.
      The lines of the new photographs contain two very strong and
  abruptly-bounded blotches, and a third one less marked.
      These brighter blotches, corresponding to different conditions of
   closely-adjacent nebular matter, give an explanation of an appearance
                                                                       " about
   which we recorded last year in speaking of the strong line
   X 3724."
               " On one side of the star-spectra this line is a little broader
   than on the other side ; but, as a similar appearance is presented by

 216       Neio Group        of Lines in Photographic        Spectrum   of Sirius.
 H»/and the stronger lines of the group, it may arise from              some optical
 or photographic cause."*
     We now learn that this difference between two parts of the lines
 indicates probably a different condition of the nebula on the two
 sides of the star-spectra.
     Other lines besides those described in this note are present, not only
 between G and F, but also on the more refrangible side of the strong
 line about \ 3725.
     The importance of the new points which have                come Out from these
 photographs makes us regret that we must postpone a fuller examina
 tion and discussion of the spectrum of different parts of the nebula
until its return next year.
 " On a new Group of Lines in the Photographic Spectrum of
         Sirius."      By William Huggins, D.C.L., L.L.D., F.R.S., and
         Mrs. Huggins. Received April 25, — Read June 12, 1890.
    In 1879,t     I gave     an account of a series of broad lines in the photo
graphic region          of the  spectrum which was found to be characteristic
of Sirius, Vega, and other white stars, and which was identified as a
continuation       of the spectrum of hydrogen beyond H.J In the photo
graphs of Sirius which I had taken up to that time, I was not able to
be certain if the two most refrangible of the lines, 6 and i, were
present.       This uncertainty has been set at rest by photographs taken
since, in which the complete series of the hydrogen lines, including
0 and t, come out with great distinctness.
    I have long suspected the presence of another group of broad lines
some distance further on in the ultra-violet region, bnt until this year
we have not been able to see them in the photographs with sufficient
distinctness to be able to make even roughly approximate measures
of their positions.
    On April 4th, a photograph of the spectrum of Sirius was taken
with a long exposure, the slit being made very narrow, in the hope of
bringing out this new group of lines with greater distinctness.                   This
plate shows, on examination, that the spectrum of Sirius, after the
termination of the hydrogen series, remains, as far as we can see at
present, free from any strong lines until a position as far in the ultra
violet as about \ 3338 is reached, at which place appears the first of
a group of at least six lines, all nearly as broad as those of the hydro
gen series. The third line of the group about                 \  3278 appears to bo
   *  •
        Boy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 46, p. 54.
   t  '
        Phil. Trans.,' 1880, p. 669.
                      '                                                       '
   X H. W. Vogel,       Berlin, Akad. Monatsber.,' 1879, July 10 j aDd Cornu,   Journal
de Physique,' 2nd ser., vol. 5, 1836, p. 100.

   On the Spectra   of  Comet a 1890 and the Nebula G.C. 4058.          217
the bioadest, but they are all broad, though even in this photograph
they are not seen with the distinctness which is necessary for ascer
taining accurately their relative character.
    The sixth line occurs where the spectrum is faint, almost at the
limit of this photograph,       which was taken when Sirius was some
distance    past the meridian, and we are not able to find out whether
this line completes the group, or whether there may not be other
 lines still more refrangible belonging to it. We expect to be able to
determine this point, namely, whether the group ends with the sixth
line, when the opportunity comes round of being able to photograph
 the star when it is near the meridian.
    The new group of six lines is well seen when the photograph is ex
 amined with a lens, bnt when the plate is placed under the measuring
 microscope it is only with some difficulty that the lines can be ob
 served with the distinctness which is necessary for measuring them
 with a fair approach to accuracy.
    For this reason, the wave-lengths given below must bo regarded as
 only preliminary, and but roughly approximate measures of the
 positions of tho new Hues.
                      1st Line                        X 3338
                      2nd ,                           X3311
                      3rd    „                        X 3278
                      4th    „                        X  3254
                      5th    „                        X 3223
                      6th    „                        X 3199
 -  Ou the Spectra of Comet a 1890 and the Nebula G.C. 4058."
        By J. NORMAN Lockter, F.R.S.                      Received and Read
        June   12, 1890.
    The comet discovered by Mr. Brooks on the 19th of March (a, 1890)
 has recently been observed at Kensington with the view of testing
 the sequence of spectra which resulted frovn my discussion of all the
 spectroscopic observations of comets which had been made up to the
 end of 1888.* The orbit, however, is such that the comet has only
 passed through a small range of temperature, and no changes have
  been observed in its spectrum beyond the gradually increasing
 brilliancy of the carbon bands relatively to the continuous spectrum.
      I
 As pointed out in the paper referred to, the citron band should be
 most variable, for the reason that the brightest flutings in the spectra
 of manganese and lead fall near it ; but, although this band has been
 carefully observed on every occasion, it has retained the same wave-
                       * '
                           Roy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 45, p. 189.
    VOL.  XLVIII.                                                     K

218            Mr.   J.   N. Lockyer.       On   the Spectra   of
length, and was found by direct comparisons to be coincident with
the carbon band near      \
                       564.    From this point of view, therefore, the
observations have  not supplied us with any new facts, and, as the
comet is calculated to have passed perihelion on June 3, it is not
likely that any phenomena will be seen beyond the usual diminution
in brightness of the carbon flutings.
   The observations which have been made, however, showed such,
a striking similarity between the spectrum of the comet and that of
the Nebula in Andromeda that advantage was taken of its presence
to compare its spectrum with that of an adjacent nebula, G. C. 4058
(R. A. 15 h. 3 m. 24 s., Decl. + 56° 11'), which closely resembles the
Andromeda Nebula.
                                                  I
   In 7ny paper of January, 1889 (p. 216), referred to some observa
tions of the spectrum of the Nebula in Andromeda which were
suggested by the discussion of cometary spectra.   These observations
showed that the spectrum of tho Nebula was really a cometary one ;
that is to say, that it consisted of the chief bands of carbon, with
a slight modification of the citron band. This result was first ob
tained by Mr. Fowler in November, 1888, and was subsequently
confirmed by Mi'. Taj'lor.  The bright bands are superposed on a
continuous spectrum which is not much fainter, and they had conse
quently escaped observation until specially looked for. The other
nebula with which a comparison has been made is comparatively
near to the comet, and, as its spectrum strongly resembles that of the
Nebula in Andromeda, it affords a good opportunity for observing the
similarity.
  The following extracts from the Observatory note-book will show
how   close the resemblance       is,
                                and    communicate this note to the
                                        I
Society  in order that anyone possessing a telescope with an aperture
of 10 inches or more may see for himself while the comet      with usis
that we are dealing with the radiation of carbon vapour in one case
as well as in the other — :
   May 21.- — The comet was somethiug like the Nebula in Andromeda
in general appearance, with the exception of the elongation.         It was
whitish and round, but brightened in the middle to an ill-defined
nucleus.    No further structure could be seen.          With the direct-
vision spectroscope,      moderately bright continuous spectrum was
                          a
visible, with bright flutings superposed.      The flutings extended from
the nucleus to the  boundaries    of the comet, but they were very faint,
except in the nucleus itself, and there they were not very clearly
defined on account of the continuous spectrum.         Made several direct
comparisons with the blue base of spirit-lamp flame
                                        a                       by
                                                               means of the
microscopic  glass reflector  in front  of the  slit. The  three flutings in
the spectrum of the comet were quite coincident with those in the
flame. The fluting near      517 was much brighter than the other two,
                              X

                Comet a 1890 and the Nebula G.C. 4058.               219
sind the blue band was    brighter than the citron. The latter was the
most difficult to measure.      The hydrocarbon band near X 431 was
not visible.    The continuous spectrum extended from about D to a
little beyond X 474.
    May 22. — Nucleus of comet not nearly so central as last night.
Formation of tail apparently commencing.          No very obvious change
 in the spectrum.     The fluting at 517 was possibly a little brighter,
but there was no change in the citron fluting. The fluting.s still
extended over the whole comet.        Still a fair amount of continuous
spectrum, to a large extent masking the carbon flutings.
    May 23. — Form and spectrum of comet not distinguishable from
 last night. The nucleus is possibly still less central.
    May 27. — The appearance and spectrum of the comet were precisely
the same as on May 23.         It seemed a little fainter, bat this was
prohably due to moonlight and a slight haze.
    June 6. — -The comet was much brighter than on previous occasions.
The tail was longer and was turned from the Sun. There was less
continuous spectrum than before, so that the bright flutings were
 more distinct, and a narrower slit could be used for comparisons.
 The coincidences with the carbon flutings were still quite perfect
with the dispersion employed.         There was no shift in the citron
band.
    June  9. — The comet did   not  appear any fainter, notwithstanding
 the published ephemeris.      There was still less continuous spectrum
than on June 6. The 517 fluting now very clearly seen.         No change
 in the positions of the bands.
     G. C. 4058. — This is a white nebula in Draco, apparently some
 what similar to the Andromeda Nebula. The spectrum, according to
 Dr. Huggins, is continuous.     The observations showed the spectrum
 to be irregularly continuous, and remarkably similar in appearance to
 ths spectrum of Comet Brooks.        The brightest part was found by
direct comparison to be coincident with the carbon fluting X 517.
No definite measures were made of any other brightnesses, but 517
is certainly present, and is not much less distinct than in the
spectrum of the comet.         The fluting appeared relatively a little
 brighter than in the Andromeda Nebula. The length of continuous
spectrum was about equal to that of the comet.
    All the observations were made with the 10-inch refractor by
Mr. Fowler.       The similarity of the spectra of the comet and the
nebula    on June  9 was confirmed by Mr. Baxandall.
    The observations emphasise what I pointed out to the Society two
years ago, namely, that the spectra of nebulae and comets are similar
 both at aphelion and during the approach to perihelion. The facts
 being so, we are justified in considering, therefore, that nebulae which
 present to us a carbon spectrum ai-e more condensed than those which
                                                                r  2

 220       Mr. E. H. Griffiths.    Determination    of Boiling   [June  19,
 show the line at X 500 first observed in a comet by Dr. Huggins in
 the year 1866.     It remains for those who hold that the physical
 strnctnre and temperature of comets and nebulas are not similar in
 each case to explain the phenomena         observed  in a more simple and
 sufficient way.
                                June  19, 1890.
      Mr. JOHN EVANS, D.C.L., LL.D., Treasurer, in the Chair.
    The Rev. J. Kerr, Prof. W. H. Perkin, jun., Mr. D. Sharp, and
 Mr. W. F. B. Weldon were admitted into the Society.
    The Presents received were laid on the table, and thanks ordered for
them.
   The following Papers were read : —
I. " On the Determination            of some Boiling and Freezing
       Points by means of the Platinum Thermometer."                   By
       E. H. Griffiths, M.A., Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge.
       Communicated by R. T. Glazebrook, F.R.S. Received
       May 27, 1890.
                                 (Abstract.)
   The paper contains an account of experiments made with a view
of—
    (I.) Comparing the closeness of agreement between the readings
of platinum thermometers made from different samples of wire
arranged in different manners and insulated by different materials.
    (II.) Ascertaining some accnrate method of graduating such ther
mometers without the direct use of the air thermometer.
    (III.) The determination of certain boiling and freezing points.
   Eight thermometers were constructed.            The resistance of the
platinum coils used varied from about 4 to 50 ohms. Full particulars
of these thermometers are given in the paper.
   The insulating substance in thermometers A, B, C, D was glass
only ; but the internal arrangements were different, as also were the
samples of platinum wire used in their construction.
   The form finally adopted (that of E, F, G) was as follows: — A
coil of fine platinum wire was wound on a roll of asbestos paper and
slipped into a thin hard-glass tube. Thick platinum wires ran from

1890.]        and Freezing Points by       the Platinum Thermometer.               221
this coil to the top of the instrument, and the unimmersed portion of
the stem was surrounded            by the     outer   tube    of   a condenser,     and
kept     at a constant   temperature    by a flow     of tap- water.        The resist
ance of this stem was so small that the change in resistance caused
by the changes in the temperature of the tap-water might be
neglected.
     The diameter of these thermometers             was less than      -j>\ of an inch,
and their length about 18 inches.               They were extremely sensitive,
and could therefore be used to trace the rise in temperature due to
suffusion, the freezing points of the metals experimented upon being
determined by the limit of this rise.
     These thermometers        were   graduated      by the temperature of the
boiling points of water, naphthalene, benzophenone, and sulphur, and
the freezing point of water.
     The values obtained by Crafts (' Paris, Soc. Chim. Bull.,' vol. 39)
were used in the case of naphthalene                     and benzophenone, and
Regnault's       value  of  the  boiling point    of   sulphur.* The purity of
the samples was ascertained by fractional distillation and by the
temperature of the melting points.             The selection of these tempera
 tures was forced upon me by the results of my experiments, and the
reasons for their adoption are fully given in the paper.
     The results were plotted in the manner suggested by Callendar
 ('  Phil.   Trans.,' A, 1887), and on a scale such that a difference of
0'02° could be read with certainty.
     The curves thus obtained differed considerably from each othei
and from the curve given by Callendar.t                     However, intermediate
temperatures deduced from these curves showed remarkably close
agreement.
     In no case (the total number of experiments exceeds 300) is the
divergence of any one experiment from the mean value obtained
from all the thermometers as great as 0'2°, and if only the results ob
tained from thermometers E, F, and G be taken, the divergence is in
no case as great as 0"05°.
     The chief difficulties which presented themselves were —
     (a.) Variations in the resistance of the connexions between the
thermometer coil and the resistance coils.
     (6.) Variations     in the temperature       of the resistance coils them
selves.
     (c.) The rise in temperature of the thermometer                 coil due to tho
current used when measuring its resistance.
    * Boiling point of naphthalene               = 218o-06.
                                    (760 m.m.)
               „                                 = 306'08.
                       benzophenone      „
               „       sulphur           „       = 44S°-3-i.
    t A discussion of the probable cause of these divergences   is given in an appendix
to the paper.

                                                                                  Table   II.
                        I.                                    II.          III.                   IV.                V.                      TI.
                                                                                                              Extreme
                                                                       Number        of
                                                         Thermometer                             Mean        divergonee                 Temperature        Previous         observers.
                                                                       determina
            Nature   of experiment.                          used.                                              of
                                                                          tions.          temperature.                    any             adopted.*
                                                                                                             experiment.
                                                                                                             f  +        -OS0"
B.                                 —                 f         F.           6                   184 -23
     p. of aniline   (760   mm.)
                                                                                                             t--oi
                                                               E.           3                   184     19
                                                                                                             r   + -02
                                                                                                                                                                      184 -41.
                                                                                                                                           18122        Kamsay,
                                                                                                             t-oi                   ¦
                                                                                                                                                        Thorpe,      183 -7.
                                                                                                                + -03
                                                              E.                                184-21       fI+         -02
                                                                           4 2
                                                               O.                               184-23          ±         00
                                                              F.                                223 -21
                                                                                                                                                        Ramsay,       222 -88.
B.   p. of methyl    salicylate    (760              ¦                                                                                    223      19
                                            mm.)..            E.
                                                                            1 3
                                                                                                                                                                      222.
                                                                                                223     18                                              Cahours,
                                                              E.                                357 -38                                                 Kekule,      355     (760).
B. p. of triphenyl    methane      (770'8     mm.)                          1 1                                                           357      35
                                                     j        0.                                357-33               -         }                                    358
                                                                                                                                                        Crafts,            (754).
                                                              F.                                357 -68        ± -oo            "I
                                                                                                             r +         -02                                              357-25.
                                                              E.                                357-64                                                  Regnault,
                                                                                                                -                         357 -65
                                                                           2 4 2                             \           -oi                            Ramsay,       353 -2.
                                                              Ot.
                                                              F.
                                                                                                357     62
                                                                                                        00
                                                                                                               ±
                                                                                                                     f \ 00     .
                                                                                                                                                        Reimsdyk,         228 -5.
                                                                                                232
                                                                                                             {131                                       Kupffcr,      230.
                                                                                                                                          232      03
                                                              O.           3 42                 232     02     ± 02                                     Person,     232 -7.
                                                              E.                                232     08     ± -oo            „                       Criehton,     238.

                                       —                                                                                  r +             ^
Fret-zing      point    of bismuth                         ,                                                                       02
                                                                     K.                                269   -68
                                                                                                                          t-oi
                                                                     a.                                269-69                ±     01
                                                                                                                                                                         Person,        270      5.
                                                                                       3 3 3                                +      -02               269      68
                                                                     E.                                269    09                                                         Beimsdik,            268     3.
                                                                                                                          1.-04
                                                                                                                          r f+ -02
            (Johnson       and   Matthty.)
                                                         [            g.               3               269   -08
                                                                                                                          I  -01          j
                        of cadmium         —                ,                                                               +      -oi
Freezing       point                                                 E.                3               321   -51             -     -00
                                                                                                                            +
                                                                                                                          r 1r                                           Person,   320           7.
                                                                                                                                   -02
                (Harrington       Bros.)                 [           G.                                321   -49                                                         Reimsdvk.     320.
                                                                                                                          \-01
                                                                     E.                                321    70                   C2                                    Van      der     Wyde,       325.
                                                                                                                             ±
                                                                                       2 23                                                          321 -67
                                                                     G.                                321   -64             ±     02    \;
            (Jolinfon     and    Matthcy.)
Freezing       point    of lead —                                                                                         r  +     -02
                                                                     F.                3               328   -27                                                                        326      2.
                                                                                                                        \    -     -oi                                   Person,
                (Uarrington       Bros.)                                                                                                                                  Ku|ifft'r,      334.
                                                                     G.                                328-79                                                                             330.
                                                                                                                                                     328-78              Quincke,
                                                           ^                           3 3
            (Johnson      and    Mntthey.)                           E.                                328   -77             ±     02      .
                                                                     G.                                421 -21               ±     01     1                               lieimsdvk,          120.
                                                                                       S 3                                                           421   -23           Wright         and      Luff,       420.
                                                                     E.                                421-25                                                                                    3.
                                                                                                                          {-21                                           Person,        433
                                                                                                                                                                         (Other          observers           range
                                                                                                                                                                            from        342      (Daniell)       to
                                                                                                                                                                             450       (Boussingault).
                                 In no ca*e would          the   divergence   shown    in Column      V    affect   the   fourth         figure    in Column       VI.
                                               The   temperatures    in Column    VI     are   expressed     in terms     of the air           thermometer.

224          Determination of Boiling and Freezing Points.            [June    19,
   (iZ.)   The presence of currents due to thermal effects.
    (e.) Superheating during distillation, and radiation from the source
of heat to the thermometer.
    (/.) The       changes in boiling points       due to changes in the baro
meter.
   (g.) Oxidation of the metals when fluid.
    For an account of the manner in which these difficulties were over
come, and of the further precautions taken to secure accuracy, refer
ence must be made to the paper.
    The boiling points of the following substances were determined : —
Aniline, methyl salicylate, tri phenyl methane, and mercury ; and the
freezing points of tin, bismuth, cadmium, lead, and zinc.§                 Every
endeavour was made to secure pure specimens of these bodies.
    Full particulars         of the individual   experiments are given in the
tables attached to the paper, and the results are summarised in the
accompanying tables.
    In   Table I,    I give certain boiling points as determined by means of
thermometers A, B, C, D, and E*.               I  have thought it unnecessary to
give details in Table I, since the forms of thermometers used therein
were ultimately discarded in favour of the form adopted in E, F, and
G. The mean results, however, are in close agreement with those
given in Table         II  (see pp. 222—223).
                                         Table I.
        Thermometers used.             A.     B.       C.     D.           Mean.
                                                           1
   B.  p. of aniline      (760 mm.) 184 32  184 27   184-29 184-21 184 -24 184 -27
       „     methyl salicylate „     223 08 223 12  923 16 1  ..           223 12
       „     mercury             „   357 61 357 69   357-65 357 54   ¦¦    357-60
     In Table II,       I  give the results obtained from thermometers E, F,
 and G, together with the extreme departure of any single determina
 tion from the mean.
     In case the values of the fixed points assumed when graduating
 these thermometers            are hereafter found to be inaccurate, sufficient
 data are given in the tables attached to the paper for the correction
 of the temperatures given in column VI.
     The results given bear out the following conclusions :—
     I. That although the curves of platinum temperature obtained
    § Tbe apparatus used for melting these metals, and for stirring them when
 cooling, was kindly placed at my disposal by Messrs. Neville and Heycock, and is
 described by them in their paper on the Melting Point of Alloys ('Journal of Ihe
 Chemical Society,' May, 1890).

1890.]       Slipping at     the  Boundary     of a Liquid in Motion.          225
from different thermometers vary considerably, intermediate tempera
tures deduced from these curves are in practical agreement.
    II. That thermometers made and graduated as described may be
used for the accurate determination of temperatures up to about
500° C.
      " On the                  Slipping at the Boundary of a Liquid in
1 1.               alleged
       Motion."        By W. C. Dampier WHETHAM, B.A., Coutts
       Trotter Student of Trinity College, Cambridge.                     Commu
       nicated by J. J. Thomson, M.A., F.R.S., Cavendish Pro
       fessor of Experimental Physics, Cambridge.                        Received
       June 7, 1890.
                                     (Abstract.)
    The experiments of Helmholtz and Piotrowski* on the oscillations
of a metal sphere suspended bifilarly, and filled with various liquids,
gave finite values to the slipping coefficients.           The inside of the sphere
was gilded and polished, and the value obtained for the coefficient X
was, in the case of distilled water, 2-3534 mm. From some experi
ments of Girardt on transpiration through copper tubes, Helmholtz
deduces the valuo        \ = 0'3984 mm. for water flowing past a copper
surface.
    In treatises on hydrodynamics,          it is shown that when       the motion
through    a tube    is linear, the flux is
                            i *r* fx—Pi     ,  t irrSpi-Pi
    In Helmholtz's notation this becomes            (p being taken as  unity)
                               itO,-P2)
                                              {r4+4Xrs}.
                                     fd
    Putting r = 005 and          \ = 0-23534, we get
                                          x ii7.67    xl0-6.
whereas    if there is no slip, so that X vanishes, the flux becomes
                            iKiliZlV)      x 6-25X10-*.
                 • ' Sitzungsberickte der Wiener Akademie,' vol. 40.
                    '
                 t    Memoires de l'lnstitut,' 1813—1815.

226      Mr. W. C. Dainpier Whetham.         On the alleged    [June 19,
    Thus the flow through a gilt tube of a millimetre in diameter
should be twenty times as fast as through a tube where there is no
slip. Poiseuille showed that for a glass tube X = 0, and it had been
generally supposed that this also held for other substances wetted by
water.
    Such a large effect as the above shows that the existence of the
coefficient would be much better investigated by transpiration experi
ments than by oscillating spheres, and an investigation         has been
carried out on these lines.
    In order to prevent absolute determinations, the time of    flow of a
known volume of water through a glass tube was observed,         the inte
rior of the tube silvered, and another observation taken         with the
 same pressure and the same volume of water.
                                  Fig. 1.
     I. The  water was allowed to run out of a bnlb through the transpi
 ration tube under its own pressure.
     As the result of four series of observations on three different
 t ubes, it was found that the times of flow for the glass tubes were the
 same to within 0"7 per cent, as the times for the silvered tubes, cor
 rections being made for changes of temperature, and for the decrease

1890.]     Slipping at the Boundary     of a Liquid in Motion.         227
in diameter due to the silver layer.        Different thicknesses of silver
were used. The differences in the times were all within the limits of
experimental error.
                                  Fig. 2.
    II. In order to determine whether any slipping occurred when the
 gradient of velocity was pushed near the limits of linear motion, as
 investigated by Prof. Osborne Reynolds,* the difference of pressure
                           » 'Phil. Trans.,' 1886.

228       Mr. W. C. Dampier Whetham.          On the alleged    [June 19,
was increased by placing a partially exhausted space in connexion
with the lower end of the tube, the size of the bulb being also
increased       The pressure was read by a kathetometer on a gauge of
sulphuric acid or mercury, and a small correction (always less than
0'2 per cent.) made in order to compare the times of flow under the
same pressure.       The temperature of the water was observed imme
diately   after  it had passed the transpiration tube, by reading a ther
mometer immersed in the cylinder C, at equal intervals, while the
water was running. The smallest tubes which could conveniently be
silvered had a diameter of rather less than a millimetre, and in this
series of experiments the tubes had diameters of O084 and O072 cm.
 The results of four series of experiments showed that in three cases
 the times for the silver and glass surfaces agreed to less than 0'5 per
 cunt., and in one case, where the silver was rather too thick, and
 probably a little irregular, the time of flow for the silvered tube was
 1  per cent, greater.
    Even if the slipping effect was only half that deduced by Helmholtz
 and Piotrowski for gold, the times of flow should have been for these
 small tubes from fifteen to twenty times less for silver than for glass.
 The two series of experiments given above may therefore      be considered
 a quite satisfactory proof of identity.
                                    Fig. 3.
     III. Girard's experiments on copper tubes give X = 0"S98-i mm.
 The times of flow for a tube of 1*83 mm. in diameter were about
  three times less than that given by Poiseuille's law.      These experi
  ments were repeated with some solid drawn tubes, kindly made for
  me by Messrs. Elliott, of Selly Oak, Birmingham.     The diameters were
  estimated to about 01 per cent., by weighing the tube first empty,
 and then full of water.     By some subsidiary determinations with glass
  tubes, I showed that this gave the same result as the usual method
  with mercury.       The results in all cases showed agreement with
  Poiseuille's observations.    Tho times of flow wero always a little

1890.]      Slipping at the Boundary       of a Liquid in Motion.       229
greater, obviously owing to irregularities in the tubes, but never
less.
   The surfaces of the tubes were then modified in various ways : by
cleaning with acids and alkalis, by polishing with emery powder, by
coating with a film of oil, and by amalgamating with mercury.             In
no    case,  however,  could any deviation from Poiseuille's laws be
detected.     Girard gives no account of the method he employed for
determining the diameters, and this may explain his results ; any
constant error would of course be more important in smaller tubes
than in larger ones, and produce the same result as a slipping coeffi
cient.     The tubes I used were some of them smaller than those of
 Girard, and any slipping would have produced an even greater effect.
    IV. At the beginning of Helmholtz and Piotrowski's paper, the
latter claims to have shown by experiments on a glass flask, plain and
silvered, that the friction exerted on it when oscillating by the con
tained water depended on the nature of the surface. These experi
ments were repeated, care being taken to make corrections for tem
perature, and to prevent alterations in the bifilar suspension, which
were very apt to occur.     Both of these precautions were neglected by
Piotrowski, who only took two observations of the logarithmic decre
ment and the time of swing for each state of the flask, but deduced a
 i per cent, difference in the frictions.
   The results of my observations are
  Silvered surface, time of swing      . .    8'806 sec.  log. dec. (H42335
  Unsilvered surface         „         ..     8779 „          „     0142217
    By the theoretical part of Helmholtz's paper, this makes the ratio
of the friction on glass to the friction on silver
                                1-0022      : 1.
   The change, if any, is less than 0'3 per cent., and the ratio is unity
within the limits of experimental error.
   The figures given above are the means of twelve observations for
the silver, and of twenty-three observations for the glass, some being
taken before, and some after, those for the silver.
   V. A modification of Piotrowski's experiment was then tried.
Instead of filling the oscillating flask with water, it was filled with
sand, and oscillated as a rigid body in a beaker of water.         The ordi
nary investigation for such cases was then applicable, and it is easily
shown that if k and k' are the frictions, X and X' the log. decrements,
and T and T' the times of swing for the two cases,
                                  k  _~    XT
                                  k        XT"

230          Mr. H.    J.  Chaney.     Re-determination     of the  ("June 1!).
   The outside of the bulb was silvered, observations taken, and the
silver then dissolved without touching the suspension, and observations
again taken.
         Silvered surface     . .   9'898 sec.      log. dec. 0-20718
          Glass          „     ..   9 938 „             „     0-20751
                        Ratio of frictions  1  : 1-00564'.
The change is thus less than 0'6 per cent., and is within the limits of
expei-imental error.
   The main part of Helmholtz's paper is taken up with the con
sideration of experiments on the oscillations of an accurately worked
sphere.    It  is remarkable that he deduces a value for the coefficient
of viscosity which is about a quarter greater than that given by
Poiseuille. This seems to suggest that a slight change in the applica
tion of theory to the results of experiment is needed, which will
reduce the coefficient for the viscosity of the liquid, and increase the
value for its adhesion to the walls of the vessel to that required for
the condition of no slip.       The existence of any effect approaching in
magnitude     that  given by  Helmholtz    would produce, as I have shown,
such an enormous change in the time of flow through a silvered tnbe,
that the result of my experiments must be considered quite conclusive.
The argument from the differences in friction due to differences in
surface, in favour of the contact theory of E.M.F. is now seen to be
worthless ; and it must be admitted that no slip occurs, at any rate
with solids that are wetted by the liquid.
III.  "Re-determination of the True Weight of a Cubic Inch of
      Distilled Water." By H. J. Chanet.                   Communicated by
      the President.        Received February 4, 1890.
                                   (Abstract.)
   Recent investigations     as to the value of the     metric unit of volume
— the cubic decimetre — appear to show, indirectly, that the present
weight of a cubic inch of distilled water (252'458 grains, t = 62° F.,
b = 30 in.) — the hitherto accepted unit of volume in this country —
is appreciably too high. This weight (252-458 grains) is based on
weighings made by Shuckburgh in 1798, and on linear measurements
by Kater in 1821 ; but their results are affected by uncertainty as to
thermometric and linear measurements, and as to the condition of the
water used.      Hence a direct re-determination of the unit of volume
in this country appeared now to be desirable.

1890.]      True Weight   of a  Cubic Inch   of Distilled   Water.        231
                     Methods and Apparatus Employed.
   The weight of a given volume of water is best determined by
ascertaining the weight of water displaced by a body or gravimeter,
whose weights in air and in vacuo, and external linear dimensions,
may be precisely determined.       For the purpose of the present experi
ments three such gravimeters were nsed : —
   C. A platinised hollow bronze circular           cylinder, 9    inches   in
diameter and height.                                                    •
   Q.  A quartz cylinder, 3 inches in    diameter and height.
   S.  A hollow 6-inch brass sphere.
   The dimensions of C, Q, and S were measured by two comparators,
designed for these measurements, geometric Hues being traced on
C and S for this purpose ; to 1 6 6\ a 6th part of an inch.      The actual
rate of expansion of each gravimeter by heat was not separately
determined, as the probable errors which arise in ascertaining the
rates of expansion of bodies of the particular sizes and forms of C,
Q, and S, would be larger than the probable errors which arise in
applying the rates of expansion obtained from experiments made by
the Fizeau optical method on smaller cubes of similar materials.
    Water. — For the rate of the expansion of water the mean corrected
observations of Despretz, Kopp, and Pierre, as taken by W. H. Miller
(1856), and Foerster (1864), have been followed. If those of Hagen
and Mathiessen had been included, the weight of the cubic inch would
have been affected by + O0009 grain.          For the normal temperature
to which we wish to reduce the cubic inch (I = 62° F.), the maximum
density of water to its density at t = 62° F. is —
                           at  4C C.  = 1-000000
                                                  '
                               <82»K. = 0-9^8881
   The water was in each case twice distilled ; no chlorine, carbonic-
acid, lead, or lime, being traced, in any quantity to affect the weigh
ings.    No correction for the absorption of air was applied, as the
distilled water was so far deprived of air, by boiling, and under an
air-pump.
   Thermometers. — Six standard       thermometers, verified both before
and after the experiments were used, viz., Centigrade 4517, 4-r>18
 (Tonnel6t) ; Fahrenheit 430 (Kew Committee), 12765 (Negretti and
Zambra), and 20065 (Hicks) ; the verifications being based on the
two thermometers 4517 and 4518, the values of which had been
 expressed by Dr. Rene Benoit and Dr. Pernet in relation to the
 hydrogen    thermometers    to   + O'OOl0 C, each thermometer being
 corrected   for exterior pressure, and its readings reduced to the
 horizontal position.   The experiments were made as nearly at 62° as

 232     True Weight of     a Cubic Inch of Distilled Water.         [June 19,
 might be ; an uncertainty of 0-2° F. making a difference in the
 weight of the cubic inch of O003 grain.
    Weighings. — The weighings were made in three sensitive balances,
 by Borda's method ; the gravimeter being suspended in water to
 a fixed depth, by a platinum wire.               The largest errors in such
 weighings are those likely to arise from minute bubbles of air
 carried down by the body which is suspended in water ; and as it is
 impracticable to keep the gravimeter in boiling water, such bubbles
 mustkbe looked for, and the gravimeter repeatedly re-immersed.
    The normal air adopted in these weighings is that at t = 62° F.,
 b = '60 inches, containing four volumes of carbonic-anhydride in every
 10,000 volumes of air ; and also containing two-thirds of the amount
 of aqueous vapour contained in saturated air ; weighed at West
 minster, latitude 51° 29' 53", at 10 feet above sea-level (g West
 minster = ga°— 1-00057704).             A cubic inch of such air weighs
 0-3077 grain.
                     Results of the present Experiments.
         C. Mean height                         9 002020 inches.
               „    diameter                    9-004148      „
               Vc                             572-803651 cubic inches.
            Weight in air                 183676-066 grains.
                  „      in vacuo  . . .  183797-198     „
              AC                                 1-27049
         S. Mean diameter                       5-992439 inches.
                Vs                            112 6694096 cnbic inches.
            Weight in air                  28410 307 grains.
                 „       in vacuo...        28440-779     „
         Q. Mean diameter                       3-083991 inches.
              „     height                      3-018485      „
            Weight in air                  15426-95495 grains.
                 ,,      in vacuo.  . .    15429 55515      „
              AQ                                2265425
               V„                              23 04014 cubic inches.
   In  normal air a cubic inch of distilled water, freed from air, at the
temperature of 62° F., was found to weigh —
                       C                  252-267 grains.
                       S                   252-301    „
                       Q                  252-261     „
   By the experiments with the sphere, apparently greater accuracy
was obtained than with the cylinders, and in calculating the weight
of the cnbic inch, a higher value has been assigned to S ; or

1890.]         On Wind Pressure upon an Inclined Surface.              233
       One cubic inch of water (as above) = grains 252'286 + 0-002,
of which    grains the imperial pound (t = 62°.   6 = 30 inches) contains
7,000.
IV.    " On Wind Pressure upon an Inclined Surface."             By W. H.
       Dixes, B.A. Communicated by the Meteorological Council.
       Received June 12, 18i)0.
    In  accordance with a plan suggested in a memorandum drawn up
by   Professor  Darwin,   I  have made the following experiments upon
this subject, using for the purpose the large whirling machine of
•56  feet diameter erected at Hersham.
    The apparatus was made by Mr. Munro, and the general arrange
ment is shown in figs. 1, 2, and 3.
    Fig. 1 gives a view as seen from the point towards which the
pressure plate P is moving ; fig. 2 as seen from the centre of the
whirling machine     ; and fig. 3 as seen from a point vertically above it.
                                     Fio. 1.
     vol. xlviii.                                                   s


1890.]           On Wind Pressure upon an Inclined Surface.                              235
   The moment due to the wind pressure is balanced by the moment
of the centrifugal force due to the circular motion acting upon the
bar AB.     The axis MN, about which the pressure plate can turn, is
coincident with the long arm of the whirling machine, and the axis of
rotation CD of the bar AB is vertical, that                  is,
                                                  parallel to the axis of
the whirler, the bar itself being horizontal, and at right angles to the
long arm. The moment due to the centrifugal force could be varied
at pleasure by sliding the bar AB longitudinally through a slot,                           S,
and thus altering the distance of its centre from its axis of rotation.
The bar weighs      lbs., and
                     2          graduated in decimals of
                                         is                   foot; thus,    a
if  its centre of mass be placed at a distance x from its axis of
rotation, the moment          is   —
                                   2«2
                                         x (ft. and lbs.).
     This    arrangement       renders        any determination         of   the     velocity
unnecessary during the experiments, since the wind pressure also
varies as v3, and therefore, as soon as a; known, the moment due to
                                                       is
the wind pressure can be expressed in terms of v.
     For reasons subsequently  explained,      was found advisable to
                                                        it
always work   at about the  same  pace,   and forty miles an hour was
chosen as most convenient.
   The pressure plate    of polished wood was
                              P                     foot square, and, in
                                                                   1
order that the back might not present any irregular surface to the
wind,    was made so that the section should be a very obtuse angled
        it
isosceles triangle, the altitude being     inches, and the supporting
                                                      1-J
arm passing through the whole width of the solid wood.         It was
mounted with    its centre    foot from
                                     1  its axis of rotation, and was
balanced by    counterpoise weight, K, placed on the other side of the
                 a
axis, the weight also making the arrangement                 symmetrical      with regard
to wind pressure.
     The lever     EF,
                    on which the pressure plate was mounted, was
clamped to     circular brass disc, G, with
                 a                           graduated rim, the disc
                                                             a
having its centre on the line MN, and being free to turn in its own
plane about that line.  The disc communicated its angular motion by
a stud to the frame,         through which the bar           AB    could slide, the frame
and bar being pivoted, so that they could turn about the vertical
axis CD, the motion being thus changed from a vertical to   horizontal       a
plane.  Of course,  stud being
                         a     employed  instead of a pair of bevelled
wheels, a play of only a few degrees was possible.     The lever EF
could   be clamped to the disc by    bolt and nut, R, in any position, and,
                                              a
since the motion  was horizontal    and  the zero mark of the disc corre
sponded to a vertical position of the lever, the graduated disc afforded
an easy method of giving to the angle of incidence of the air upon
the face of the plate any desired value.      The plate                P,
                                                           again, could be
arranged  so that the plane  of its surface  made  any  desired angle with
the lever    EF.
                                                                                 s   2

23(3 Mr. W. H. Dines. [June 19,
          Fig. 4.
          C

1890.]                    On Wind Pressure upon an Inclined Surface.                                 237
     It
     remaiDS to explain how the value of the moment corresponding
to any position of the plate was measnred. The bar AB was made
to take np its position of equilibrium with the plate automatically, and
the plan by which this was accomplished is shown in figs. 4 and 5.
   The sliding bar AB had a rack cut on  and the pivoted frame which   it,
carried    also carried
                it       crown wheel, X, and pinion, the teeth of the
                                            a
pinion working into the rack cut on the bar. The fixed frame of the
apparatus carried a long pinion and grooved pulley, HL.      A band
from a small windmill placed on the long arm caused this pulley to
turn in one direction whenever possible.
   The pinion LH was placed just in front of the crown wheel, and so
near to   that when
                it     was exactly parallel to the face of the crown
                                      it
wheel the teeth on both sides were engaged, and consequently the
arrangement was locked, and no motion could take place, the driving
band either slipping on the pulley, or the windmill ceasing to
turn.
     If,   however,           the frame carrying the crown wheel moved slightly
round its axis CI),               so as to bring the bar AB into contact with the
stop       Z,
            it       is   evident the teeth of the wheel on the side near H would
become free from the pinion, and, the teeth on the side near being                              L
more deeply engaged, the crown wheel would begin to turn, and
would communicate a longitudinal motion to the bar AB, by means
of the rack and pinion, causing         to move from        towards A.
                                                                 it                    B
Contact with the stop W would cause the teeth on the side near H to
become engaged, and consequently the wheel would turn in the other di
rection, and the bar move from    to B. Under these circumstances the
                                                          A
bar takes up that position in which the moment due to tho centrifugal
force    exactly equal to the moment due to the wind pressure which
           is
it    required to measure
     is                     for that    the only position in which the
                                                ;                 is
bar can rest    any departure from the position of equilibrium being
                          ;
immediately followed by a readjustment of the position.       Hence, to
determine the wind pressure,   was only necessary to clamp the plate
                                                          it
in position, to allow the steam engine to give a few turns to the
whirling machine, to stop                           it,
                             and then read off and enter the distance
of the centre of mass of the bar from its axis of rotation.
   In practice two bars were used, one weighing       lbs., which could           2
be placed in any position and clamped by hand     the other weighing          ;
j lb., which, being worked by the automatic arrangement, made the
final adjustment.
   Both these bars were graduated in decimals of a foot, and the plan
adopted was to enter the distance of the centre of mass of the 2-lb.
bar from the axis of rotation first, and then to enter the distance of
the small bar, prefixing a + or — sign, according as the two centres
were on the same or opposite sides of the axis.   Dividing the second
entry by             8,   since   ^   lb.   is  §    of   2    lbs., and then adding   it   algebraically

238                          Mr. W. H. Dines.                 [June 19,
to the first entry, gave the distance from the axis at which a weight
of 2 lbs. would cause equilibrium.
   The change of the plane of the couple from the vertical to the
horizontal was also accompanied by a change in the length of the
arm of the couple in the ratio of 2 : 1, the apparatus being designed
thus in order to reduce the weight of the sliding bar; and therefore
the value of x, when found as above, had to be multiplied by 4, to give
the distance in feet at which the centrifugal force acting upon I lb.
would balance the pressure upon the plate.
   In the event of the small bar having run against its stops at either
end, a fresh adjustment of the heavy bar had to be made by hand ;
but this seldom happened, except in the case of the first determina
tion for    a new position.
            Position III.                       Position IV.
   The four typical positions are shown in the figures, and are referred
to in the subsequent tables and remarks as Positions I, II,     III, and
IV. The following extract, taken from Professor Darwin's memo
randum, shows how the normal component of the wind pressure and
the position of the centre of pressure may be obtained : —
   " It
         may be supposed that the couple, due to the wind pressure
upon    all   the moving parts except the plate, may be eliminated, so

 1890.]        On   Wind Pressure upon an Inclined Surface.                   239
that the couple necessary to hold the plate in position           alone remains
 to be determined.
    " Consider the first and second
                                        positions of the plate or vane ; sinci*
 the   wind   meets  the   vanes   at the same angles in both cases, the
conples would be identical, if the centre of pressure were at the
middle of the vane. But it is well known that the centre of pressure
is nearer the forward edge, and hence the couples are unequal.
    " If a be the distance from the centre of the                  to its axis of
                                                            plate
rotation, and if x be the unknown distance of the centre of pressure
from the centre of the plate, and if P be the mean pressure- estimated
over the whole plate, and Lt and L2 the couples corresponding to the
two positions, then it is clear that
                       " Lj = P(a-aj)           = P(a  + ar).
                                         ;  L2
•"
   from which we easily get
                     ¦.P  =  ^cr,+L,),,
                            " also Pas
                                                =
                                       = i(Ls— Lj).
                                                   ^
    " Thus, this
                   pair of experiments gives two of the things to be
measured.
    " Next consider the 3rd and 4th
                                           positions, where the experimental
plate   is clamped   with  its plane   perpendicular   to the arm, and where
the inclination to the horizon is complementary to the angle of
inclination in the 1st and 2nd positions.
    " Suppose that T is the tangential force on the plate, and
                                                                            Ls Lt
the couples in the two cases.
    " Then it is clear that
                     "                            = To-P* ;
                       Ls =    To+Pa    and L4
*' from which we get
                               «T  = 1-(L8+L4).
    " If we avail ourselves of the value of P and *, obtained from the
 1st and 2nd experiments,       we have
                 " Ta =                      = L4 + *   (L,-^).
                          L3-i (Ls-LO
    " The 3rd and 4th experiments thus afford a redundant equation,
and this may be expected to give a check on the consistency of the
 results with themselves." — An expectation unfulfilled.
     For the purposes of comparison, the value of the moment of the
 1 foot square pressure plate, when exposed normally, with its centre

 240                              Mr. W. H. Dines.                     [June 19r
 1  foot from its axis of rotation, and when corrected          as far as possible
 for all sources of error,         is given as 100,    the values of all other
 moments being expressed relatively to it.
    The actual value in terms of the velocity is given subsequently.
                               Square Pressure Plate.
    Curves A and B show the relation between the angle of incidence
 and the moments for positions         I and II, as deduced from the first un
 corrected series of experiments, and curves E and F for positions             III
 and   IV (figs. 8 and 9). In taking the values of these moments there
                   Fig.  8. — Diagram of Moments.   Square Plate.
is one point of which we must not lose sight.             The long arm of the
whirling    machine    is   not  perfectly rigid,  and   gives way under the
torsion produced by the wind pressure.                  Experiments made by
hanging weights from the end of a lever showed that a force of 5 lbs.
acting 1 foot from the axis caused a deflexion of 2°, and since this is
about the moment caused by a velocity of 40 miles an hour, when the
plate is exposed normally, the curves have been drawn on the suppo
sition that a moment represented by 100 caused a deflexion of 2°, and
that the other moments caused a proportionate deflexion.
   It was on this account that it was found advisable to make all the
experiments at one uniform velocity.

 1890-3     On Wind Pressure upon an Inclined Surface.                     241
                Fig. 9. — Diagram of Moments.   Square Plate.
   The actual results which have been obtained arc all given in the
following tables, in which no notice is taken of the torsional deflexion,
although it has been taken into account in drawing the curves.
            Position I.                              Position IT.
 Angle of                                Angle of
incidence.    Values of moment.         incidence.       Values of moment.
   10°       97, 105, 115, 107               0°       109,    105,  111,   100,
   15        106                                        110,   114, 127, 119,
   20        108, 99                                    119 (at top)
   30        97, 102                         0        107, 100, 114, 108 (at
   40        97, 96                                     bottom)
   45        94                            10         106, 108, 108, 108
   48        97                            15         110, 115
   50        94, 91, 99                    20         109, 102
   51        98                            30         103, 100, 97
   52        106                           40         103, 96
   54        109                           45         94
   55        114, 113, 117                 50         96, 95
   56        114                           52         105, 106
   58        112                           54         118, 106
   60        100, 103, 96, 109             55         124,    106,  107,   126,
                                                        123, 126

242                             Mr. W. H. Dines.                     [June  19,
        Position 1— continued.                  Position   II — continued.
 Angle of                                Angle of
incidence.     Values of moment.        incidence.        Values of moment.
    61          102                         56          124, 130
    62          97                          58          144, 151, 144
    64          85                          60          130, 126, 125, 119
    65          79                          61          128, 130
    70          63                          64          125
    75          48, 52, 45                  65          108, 120
             '
    80          38,39                       67          106
    85          25                          70          73, 89, 85
    90          9, 10, 12                   75          64, 63. 64
                                            80          39, 47
                                            85          25
                                            90          2,  -5
              Position   III.                          Position  IV.
 Angle of                                Angle of
incidence.     Values of moment.        incidence.        Values of moment.
     5°         0                            5°         0
    10          3                           10          0
    15          7, 11                       15          3, 3
    20          9                           20          4
    30          11, 10, 11                  30          9, 13
   45           19                          40          12
    60          22, 15, 22, 15             45           15, 14
                                            50          20
                                            52          17
                                            55          21, 23, 24, 22
                                            58          24, 24
                                            60          24, 27, 23, 27, 27
                                            61          24, 23
                                            64          24, 22
                                            65          24
                                            67          24, 23
                                            70          20, 21, 18
                                            75          16
                                            80          7
                                            85          0
   These tables give a negative value to the tangential component of
the pressure when the angle is 60°, and they also make it appear
that the central line of pressure is coincident with the central line
of the plate until the angle of incidence          exceeds 45°.     Neither of

 1890.]        On Wind Pressure upon an Inclined Surface.             243
 these conclusions seeming probable, it appeared advisable to obtain
some independent information upon the point, and for this purpose
the natural wind was used.
   A light circular disc, of 8 inches diameter, was mounted so that it
could turn freely in its own plane, and the lower half was cased in, so
that it was completely sheltered.       It was then exposed to the wind
in various   positions, its plane being always vertical, but inclined to
the wind direction at different angles. The tangential component of
the wind pressure, acting upon one side of the upper half of the disc,
would tend to rotate the disc, but it was very seldom that the slightest
motion could be obtained, although the friction was so slight that a
few grains weight placed on the rim of the disc was sufficient to move
it. It seems clear from this that the tangential component is so
small that it may be neglected in comparison with the normal, and it
has accordingly been considered equal to zero.
   To  find the position of the central line of pressure, the arrangement
                                   Fio.  6.

244                          Mr. W. H. Dines.                    [June   19,
shown in figs. 6 and 7 was designed.        A pressure plate, P, similar to
the experimental      plate, was  mounted    on a steel rod, AB, the line of
the rod being on the face of the plate, and parallel to a vertical edge,
bnt not necessarily passing through the centre of the plate. The rod
was ground to a sharp point at its lower end and placed in a piece of
brass tube with a plug at the bottom, on which the point rested, so
that it could turn freely in the tube. On exposing this arrangement
to the wind the plate could take up a definite position, the angle
between the normal and the wind direction being dependent upon
the distance of the centre of the plate from the axis of rotation formed
by the steel rod.
    It was not possible, however, to measure this angle, because the
 wind direction never remained steady for a sufficient time. To over
come this difficulty, a flat disc, C, was placed on top of the brass tube,
and the tube itself was pivoted in another piece of tube.         A definite
line on the disc was kept facing the wind by a vane D, and the aDgle
between the normal to the plate and this line was determined, as far
 as   possible, for various positions of the steel rod relatively to the
 centre of the plate.    A vertical section is shown in fig. 6 and a plan
 in fig. 7. In the following table the angle of incidence is denoted by
 0,  and the distance between the centre of the plate and centre of
pressure by x. Exact relations between x and 9 could not be obtained,
but the following values are probably within a few degrees of the
truth,    unless  the wind vane below the disc is influenced         by the
pressure plate.      Whether    this be   so  or not  I  have no means of
judging.

1890.]         On Wind Pressure upon an Inclined Surface.               245
                     x = 0-025 foot              0 = 18°
                     x = 0-050 „                 0 = 30
                     x = 0075    ,               0 = 45
                     a = 0100    „               0=60
                     x = 0-125   „               0=70
                     x = 0-150   „               0 =  75
                     0 = 0-175   „               0=78
                     x = 0-200   „               0 =  80
    Reverting to the whirling machine, the inconsistencies            shown
between the series of results for the different positions appeared to
be dne to an eddy from the frame of the apparatus, or at least that
seemed to me the only feasible explanation.       To test this, experiments
were made on the machine with the plate MN in the position shown
in the annexed diagram, the wind being supposed to come from the
 right.   If L  be the moment   about O in this position, the expression
 L  sec  0,  which is equal numerically to the force acting upon the
 plate when exposed normally, ought to be independent of 0, but such
 •was not found to be the case.    If a circle be taken with O for centre,
 and A be taken on the right, so that OA is the direction of motion of
 the apparatus through the air, and the points F, B, E be taken at
 45°, 90°, and 135° respectively from A on the top, and H, C, G be
 corresponding points on the bottom part of the circle, then the value
 of L sec 0 was found to vary in the following manner : —
    At F   the value was  about 30 per     cent, less than at E, the value
 increasing uniformly from F to E.

 246                            Mr.  "W.   H. Dines.                     [June  19,
    At H the value was about          15 per cent, less than at G,       increasing
 uniformly from H to G.
    At H and F the values were very nearly equal, F being slightly
 lower, but the difference was quite within the limits of an accidental
 error.
    These results point clearly to an eddy from the frame of the
 apparatus, and it was owing to the accidental discovery that the
 pressure at C was 7 or 8 per cent, less than at B that               I  was led to
 try the effect of placing the plate exposed normally in various parts
 of the circle,  as just explained.
    Reference to fig. 1 will show how small a surface the frame pre
 sents to the wind ; actually it is about 14 square inches, or only one-
tenth of the surface of the pressure plate, and being as much as
 15 inches laterally from the centre of the plate, it certainly seems
 surprising that it should exert       so great an influence.
    Observations to find the value of the moment about 0 for positions
I, II,  III, and IV were made indiscriminately in the top and bottom
segments, before the existence of the eddy was suspected ; but sub
sequent trial showed that the values in the case of oblique exposure
were symmetrical about the line AO, excepting in the neighbourhood
of the points B and C.
   It is clear that the disturbance due to the frame is an important
matter, and some attempt must be made to eliminate it.
    Since the normal pressure upon the plate was found to increase
uniformly from F to E, and also from H to G, it seems to be the
least objectionable plan to assume that the moment when the plate is
exposed obliquely varies in the same way.               This assumption will, at
least, bring the position of tho central          line  of pressure, as deduced
from positions I and II, more into accordance with the position which
it is known to take up.
   Also, since the normal pressures at H and F are practically
identical, and these are presumably the positions where the eddy
from the frame should have the least effect,             I think it will be best
to take the values of the normal pressure in these positions as the
basis with which to compare all other pressures.              It will be seen that
this is equivalent to taking about 15 per              cent, less than the value
found at B, or about 7^ per cent, less than the value at C, as the
numerical value of the normal component.
   Assuming that the tangential component is zero, we have now four
ways of determining the normal component for any angle of incidence.
Tliey are (1) by combination of the corrected values found for posi
tions   I and II;    (2) by combination of positions          II  and IV. These
give also the position of the central line of pressure.            If we take the
position    of the   central line   of   pressure    obtained   from   the experi

 1890. j        On Wind Pressure upon an Inclined Surface.                247
merits with the natural wind, these values, combined with positions
either   II  or IV, will give the normal component.       It will be seen, on
reference to the tables of values found for the various positions, that,
in whichever way the curve be constructed, a very curious and sudden
rise occurs between the angles of 55° and 60°. Curve C, fig. 1 0, for the
normal component has been constructed by taking the values from
positions    II and IV, and curve D, fig. 11, by taking the position of the
central    line of pressure from the natural wind experiments, and then
deducing the normal components from the values of the moment in
position II.     I  can form no opinion as to which curve is the more
likely to be correct. Some confirmation of the trnth of these results
is, perhaps, given by the fact that the greatest moment produced by
the wind upon a Robinson cup does not occur when the arm is
perpendicular to the wind direction, but when there is a considerable
inclination, and the fact that a ship can sail at a good pace when its
direction makes with the wind direction an angle considerably less
than 90° is worth noting.
    The position of the central line of pressure, as deduced from the
experiments made on the whirling machine, is nearer the front edge
of the plate than the position given by direct experiment with the
natural wind. It will be seen that in both cases the distance of the
central line of pressure from the centre of the plate increases more
rapidly with the same change in the angle of incidence, as that angle
increases in magnitude ; but that the angle at which the acceleration
becomes apparent is greater in the natural wind experiments.
   The following results, showing the relation between x and 0 (see
preceding table), may be of interest ; they are deduced from positions
II and IV :—
                      x  = 0 025 foot            0 =  10°
                      x  = 0 050   „             0=18
                      x  = 0-075   „             0 = 26
                       x = 0-100   „             0 = 33
                      x  = 0-125   ,             0 = 39
                      x  = 0-150   „             0 = 44
                      x  = 0-175   „             0 = 49
                       x = 0-200   „             0 = 54
                      x  = 0-225   ,             0 = 58
                       x = 0-250   „             0 = 63
                      x = 0-275    „             0 = 67
                      x = 0-300    „             0=71
                               Hough Surfaces.
   The preceding results refer exclusively to a smooth polished plate.
The effect of covering the face with sand-paper of medium coarseness,

   Fia. 11. — Diagram of Normal Component.
From Position  II and Natural Wind Experiments.

    1890.]         On Wind Pressure upon an Inclined Surface.                     240
   and also with coarse woolly flannel, was tried. So far as                 I  could
   judge, the sand-paper made no difference in any position, and the
'
   flannel made no difference in the normal position.            At the angle of
    maximum moment, the flannel causes a considerable change in the
   value of the moment. The mean of six experiments made in posi
    tions  I  and   II gives a decrease of 21 per cent, in the value of the
    normal component (not the moment) when the face of the plate is
j   covered   with flannel. About the same decrease is caused by tho
   roughly wetting the face of the plate, probably, because a series of
'ripples are set np, for just damping it has no appreciable effect.               Ex
    periments    made  with   the flannel in positions   III and   IV   show   that it
    acts in two ways.      It decreases the pressure, and brings the central
    line of pressure nearer to the centre of the plate ; there is also a de
    cided tangential component, but uncertainty about the effect of the
    eddy in the back positions (I and III) and want of time have pre
    vented my making any attempt to determine the numerical value.
  I
          Distribution of the Stream Lines     on the Surface   of  the  Plate.
  I    In  accordance    with suggestions     made by Professor Darwin            and
    Mr. Buchan on the occasion of their visit to Hersham on March 20th,
  ; an  attempt has been made to map out the stream lines near the surface
  ¦of   the pressure plate for various angles of incidence.
       For this purpose twenty-five small pins were driven into the face
    of the board in rows 2 inches apart, and a few short lengths of dark
    coloured silk were tied to the head of each pin. It was somewhat
    difficult to see the position taken up by the silk, but the accompany
 ing diagrams give a general idea. Each diagram is the result of two                   .
    drawings made at different times and compared afterwards, and in
    cases where the two drawings' showed much difference a third trial
    was made. The pace was about 35 miles an hour, that being very
    near the limit at which the silk could be seen.
       In each diagram the front edge of the plate corresponds to the
    top, and the left hand to the side nearest to the centre of the
: whirling machine.          The arrows indicate the position taken up by
    the silk   attached  to  the corresponding pin, and probably Rhow the
    direction of motion of the air at the point within a few degrees.
    There is a general tendency of the arrows to incline to the right,
    which is no doubt due to the centrifugal force. The effect is no
j donbt indirect, and not due to direct action upon the
                                                                        silk, but to
    the action upon the comparatively         still air,  which, being driven to
    the right, in turn moves the silk. It was evident that in parts
     where the symmetry of the diagram was destroyed by a turning to
     the right, the motion of the air was comparatively gentle, this
     being seen by the inertness of the threads in those positions.
       VOL. XLV1II.                                                          T

  250                   Mr. W. H. Dines.                     [June   19,
    \ \      r       /   /         V     \         t       /       y
    ^  \     i       /   y
                                   / /              \      V      \
    /  /      \      \   ^         / /              J      \      \
    /  /     i       \   \          / /            J       \     N
         Front.   0"                       Front.     tJ
    y  /     \       \   ^         /     /        I        \      \
    S  /     I       \   ^         /     /        i        \      N
    ^  /     1       \   ^          /    /        1        V      N
    /  /     l       \   \          /    /        I       V      \
    /   /    I       \   \          /     I       I        \      \
        front.   30°                     J  '/ out J. j
     /  /     I       \  \           \    I       I      1       X
     /  /     1      \   \           \    \       I      I       \
'
     /  /      |      \  \           i     i      I      I       \
     /  /      |      \  \           1     1      ]      1       \
     /  /     i      \   \            1    1      ]      1       \
        front    60                      Front

1890.]     On Wind Pressure upon an Inclined Surface.             251
                                   1111/
 Metier? so unsteady               \      \      \     \        t
that direct tens could             \      t      t     t       t      I
   nof be    determined
                                    r     t      t     t       t
                                   t      t      t     t       t
          Buck.  0'.                          Back.  15."
   1    t     /      t  t            /       /     /     /      s
   t   1      t     t   t            \      \      \     f      /
                        t           t      t      t    t       1
    11111
    t  t      t      1
                                    t      t      t    t        /
          Back.  50?                          Back. 45.'
                                   1       t     t     t       /
               s *                               f     /       s
It
     ;   ^               <*         t      t
        t     \      t   /
   \    \     t      t   /                             \
                                           \      \            N
  \                      /  '
                                    \
       \      t       t
                                    l      I      \    \        \     :
         Back:  60?
                                                           T 2

252                             Mr. W. H. Dines.                      [June  19,
  i No marked change in the distribution of the stream lines occurred
op either the back or front of the plate at angles between 46° and
6j0°, several intermediate positions having been tried.
  : Until the angle     of incidence exceeds 60° there is a region of still
air at the back just behind the forward edge of the plate ; the
Width of this seems to increase, but it remains at all events within
2 inches of the edge until the angle of incidence exceeds 60°.             It is
curious that at 75° the air should be at rest at the centre of the back
of the plate, and pass off laterally in both directions.            In all cases
the motion on the front of the plate was quite steady. At the back,
in the case of normal exposure, it was too unsteady to be deter
mined ; at 15° it was decidedly unsteady ; but in the other positions
there was no difficulty in seeing the position of the silk threads.
                     Effect of Temperature, Pressure,    8fc.
    It will be seen on reference to the tables     that very divergent results
were sometimes obtained.           Obviously experiments made under the
same     conditions of barometrical pressure, temperature, and wind
ought to give the same values.         In cases where a small change of in
clination causes a considerable change in the moment, a discrepancy
in the results is easily explained by supposing a small mistake to
have been made in measuring the angle, but in many cases this ex
planation does not apply.           Some natural wind ought to increase
the mean pressure,        but   in so far as I   can judge it does not do so
 to anything like the theoretical amount, that is to say, the pressure
 is not increased so much as the mean square of the relative velocity.
 Repeated experiments have shown that it is not possible to get a
 different result by altering the rate of the whirling machine, all
 speeds under 70 miles an hour, which is the greatest of which the
 machine is capable, giving results which show that the pressure
 varies as the square of the velocity.         It must, however, be remem
 bered that at low speeds the forces are too small to be capable of
 exact measurement.
    Barometrical pressure has the result which might be expected, the
 pressure on the      plate varying directly as the height of the mer
 cury.    A rise of    temperature does not seem to make much differ
 ence, but, if   anything, it increases the pressure.         Experiments have
 been made through a range of about 40° F., from 28° F. to 68° F.
 The greater viscosity,       I  suppose, at the higher temperatures more
 than compensates for the decrease of density, for certainly, other cir
 cumstances being the same, the pressure is not less at 60° F. than at
 30°  F., and the lowest values ever obtained were in         a thick fog with   a
 temperature below the freezing point.
     No determinations of the dew point have ever been             made in con

1890.]         On Wind Pressure upon an Inclined Surface.             253
                                        I
nexion with the experiments, but think that damp air is conducive
to a high, and dry air to a low, relative pressure.
    On some days the values will not vary to more than 1 or 2 per
cent, throughout ; on others, under apparently           precisely similar
circumstances, variations of 10 or even 15 per cent, will occur within
a few minutes.       It is perhaps possible that these changes may be due
to variations in the viscosity of the air caused by a change in the dew
point, or they may be caused by a circular eddy due to the wind
coinciding in position with the path of the pressure plate. The latter
supposition seems the more probable, but, if so, it ought to appear
sometimes in experiments with velocity instruments, and            I have
tried several air meters many times, and never detected anything
approaching to a variation of 10 per cent. It must be remembered,
however, that a change of 5 per cent, in the velocity would produce a
change of 10 per cent, in the pressure.
    These variations give an immense amount of trouble, because it is
imperative that an experiment should be repeated many times before
 the mean value is considered correct.
                                 Actual Pressures.
    The actual value of the pressure for any velocity is obtained thus.
    In the normal position, the pressure for which has previously been
denoted by 100, equilibrium was obtained when the moment due to
 the centrifugal force was 1"33 (ft. and lbs.).       The bar was 27 feet
 9^ inches from the centre of the whirling machine, and the centre of
 the pressure plate 29 feet 1£ inches ; hence, since the centre of the
 pressure plate was 1 foot from its axis of rotation, the pressure P is
 given in lbs. by the equation
                                   _
                                 p ~ T33 Xp3
                                      27 8 x 32 2'
 when v is the velocity of the bar in feet per second.
    This gives
                              p_     1-33 x 27-8V3
                                     32'2x(291)»'
 when   V  is the velocity of the plate.
    Changing to miles per hour, we havo
                                   P=   -0029U3,
  which gives about      18£ miles per hour as the velocity at which the
  pressure is  1 lb. per sq. ft.
     This is, I  believe, a lower value than has been previously given.

 254                          Mr. W. H. Dines.                  [June 19,
 The older books on engineering      give  P =   0"005«2, but more recent
 books give P = 0-003t>3.
    It is a lower value than the one determined at Hersham last year,
 but  I  had then no suspicion that the frame of the apparatus would
 influence    the result.   It is, however, borne out by the values
 obtained last year for smaller plates, and the experimental evidence
which shows that a decrease of pressure per sq. ft. occurs as the size
of the plate is increased.
    The following particulars may also be of interest ; the method by
which they were obtained is described in a paper read before the
Royal Meteorological Society in May, 1890. At the centre of the
plate when exposed normally the increase of pressure at a rate of
60 miles an hour is equal to 1"82 inches of water, and the decrease at
the back, also at the centre close to the plate, is equal to 0'89 inch
of water.      These values were found with the plate at the point B
(see preceding diagram), and, taken in connexion with the fact,
discovered      I believe by Mr. Curtis, that the pressure in front
decreases from the centre outwards, agree fairly well with the value
for the pressure obtained in that position.
                             Long Narrow Vane.
    Experiments    have also been made with long narrow strips instead
of with a square plate.      The size chosen was 4 feet long by 3 inches
broad, the surface thus being the same as the square plate.
    Observations    were made at angles of 10° apart, in positions  I and
II,  both with the shorter axis inclined to the wind, and also with the
longer axis.
    There   was a difficulty in mounting these strips so that the
supporting arm should not cause any disturbance of the motion of
the air over the strip, and still be sufficiently rigid to support the
pressure.      The thickness of the wood was § inch, and the edges were
feathered off. It will be seen that when the strip was exposed so
that its shorter axis was inclined to the wind the longer axis was
necessarily parallel to the long arm of the whirling machine, and its
centre 2 feet from the end of the lever.     Under these circumstances
the velocity would be nearly 4 per cent, greater, and the pressure
from 7—8 per cent, greater, than upon the square plate for the same
rate of rotation of the whirling machine.       This has  been taken into
account in drawing the curve G.
    The support was obtained by a piece of flat iron, 1J inch by
which passed half way along the back of the wood, the end of the
iron being bolted to the lever.
    The values of the moment for position     I were found to be greater
than for position II, doubtless on account of the eddy from the

1&90.]         On Wind Pressure upon an Inclined Surface.                     255
frame, and accordingly       the values for position    II  only were used for
drawing the curve.
                         Rectangle 4 feet by 3 inches.
     Shorter Axis inclined to the               Longer Axis inclined to   the
                 Wind.                                     Wind.
             Position   II.                            Position   II.
  Angle of                                  Angle of
incidence.        Values of moment.        incidence.       Values of moment.
      0°       132,   126,   127,   128,        0°       126, 129, 125, 126
                 135                           10        141
    10         128, 132                        20        153
    20         135, 126                        30        167, 156, 159
    30         130                             40        156
    40         125, 123                        50        118
    50         114, 120                        60        84, 93
    60         99, 100, 102                    70        36
    70         72                              75        25, 26
    80         37                              80        11
    90          -6                             90        11
              Position   I.                             Position   I.
    20         133                             10        114, 116
    40         131                             20        93
    SO         120, 126, 117                   30        73, 77
    60         120                             40        66
                                               50        54
                                               60        38, 36, 39
                                               70        24
                                               80        24
                                               90        12
    The curve G, fig.   12, therefore    shows the moment abont O, rather
 than the normal component of the pressure, but, the strip being only
 3 inches broad, the departure of the central line of pressure from the
 centre of the strip cannot cause any very serious difference. The actual
 pressure upon a surface of this kind is much greater than upon an
 equal surface when collected in a compact form, such as a square or
 circle, the difference in this case being more than 20 per cent. This
 is quite in accordance with previous experiments that have been made
 on the subject.
    The dotted line shows the value of the normal component given by
 Lord Rayleigh, the curves being made to agree at the beginning and
 end. The agreement between the theoretical and experimental curves
 would be more marked if both gave the same quantity, for the moment

250                   Mr. W. H. Diiies.                  [June 19,
         Fig.  12. — Long Strip.  Diagram of Moments.
               Shorter Axis inclined to the Wind.
    Fig. 13. — Long Strip.   Diagram of Normal Component
               Longer Axis inclined to the Wind.

  1890.]        On Wind Pressure upon an Inclined Surface.             257
 in. the intermediate positions is necessarily greater numerically than
 the normal component.
     Curve H, fig. 13, gives the normal component of the pressure upon
 the same strip of wood with the longer axis inclined to the wind. In
 this case the wood was mounted 1 foot from the lever (EF, fig. 1)
 and    parallel to it. The curve is drawn from the values of          the
 moments in positions      I  and II, want of time having prevented     my
 making observations in positions      III and IV. The curve shows     the
 normal component, and not the moment, and the distances of             the
centre of pressure from the centre of the strip are given in the
following table, x and 0 having the same meanings as before : —
                      x  = 010 foot             0 = 10°
                      x =  0-24 „               0 = 20
                      x = 0-36   ,              0 = 30
                      x =  0-40  „              0 = 40
                      x =  0-37  „              0 = 50
                     * =   0-39  ,              0 = 60
    It is probable that the flattening   of the curve about the angle of
50°, and the corresponding departure from symmetry in the relation
between x and 0 for that angle, is accidental.      The curve is obviously
wrong at 90°, where the normal component should be zero, but have   I
sought in vain for any explanation of this, and can only put it down
to the eddy from the frame, which has caused so much trouble in
other ways. It is not due to any want of balance, so far as gravity
is concerned. Several trials have been made during the course of
the experiments to see whether the sliding bar would come to the
zero mark when the plate and balance weight were removed from the
apparatus, and it has always been found to do so with very fair
accuracy.     Care has been taken to see that the moving parts were
properly    balanced   for weight, and although the pressure upon the
plate, and consequent deflexion, has no doubt slightly altered the
balance while the apparatus was moving, the error so caused is very
trifling, at least so far as the foot square plate is concerned.
    In conclusion, I must say that I am sorry not to have been able to
clear up the different inconsistencies better, and not to have been
able to draw the curves for the normal component with a greater
certainty of their being accurate.

258    Action of Oils on Motions of Camplior on Water.         [June   15),
V. " On the Action of Oils on the Motions of Camphor on the
      Surface of Water."           By Charles Tomlixson, F.R.S.
      Received May 26, 1890.
   In Lord Rayleigh's paper on the above subject, read before the
                                                                      '
Royal Society on the 27th March last, and reported in ' Nature of
the 8th May, it is stated that a film of olive oil, in two or three cases,
" was
        incompetent to stop the camphor motions upon a surface
including only a few square inches."
    I have often noticed this fact as a consequence of the use of
chemically-clean   materials.      Water, contained in a shallow glass
vessel, 4 inches in diameter, on the surface of which camphor frag
ments were active, was touched with rape oil delivered from the point
of a penknife.   The fragments continued to rotate on that part of the
surface which had not been invaded by the oil film (' Phil. Mag.,'
November, 1873).      I  had previously noticed that a drop of a volatile
oil, free from oxidised products, could be spread over the whole
surface of the water, without impeding the motion of the camphor
fragments, which skated through and cut up the film. In the case of
old volatile oils, redistillation was found to be necessary (' Phil.
Mag.,' September, 1863). A similar effect was produced by a drop
of creosote (or its constituent acids) on a film of a fixed oil that com
pletely covered the surface of the water.     The creosote repels the oil
film, cuts it up in all directions, moving over the surface with great
vigour (' Phil. Mag.,' June, 1867). So also by attention to chemical
purity, a raft of mica carrying a bit of camphor will float about
briskly on the surface of water night and day during a whole week
and upwards ('Phil. Mag.,' December, 1869).
    By attending to the chemical purity of the materials the results
led to the explanation of many phenomena which had taken refuge
under the vague term " molecular change," or " molecular condition,"
and to the discovery of other phenomena which had some influence in
developing theory.     I  proposed to apply the term catharised to bodies
thus made chemically         clean, from KaOapbv, " pure
                                                          " or " clean "
(' Journal of the Chemical Society,' April, 1869 ; also Phil. Trans.'
                                                           '
for 1870).
    I may be allowed to add that, in arriving at the true theory of the
camphor motions and their varied kindred phenomena, Professor Van
der Mensbrugghe      was kind enough to refer to me in his second
memoir, as " le physicien qui a le mieux pr6par6 la vraie theorie de
ces phenomenes."

1890.]               On the Plasticity    of an Ice Crystal.             259
VI.   " On the Plasticity of an Ice Crystal. (Preliminary Note.)"
     By James C. McConnel, M.A. Communicated by R. T.
     Glazebrook, F.R.S. Received May 29, 1890.
   Two years      ago,   in the ' Proceedings    of the Royal Society,' was
published an account of some experiments on the plasticity of ice
made by Mr. Kidd and myself.              We proved the oft-repeated state
ment, that glacier ice is not plastic under tension, to be erroneous,
and, indeed, that an ordinary bar of ice composed of several crystals
will yield continuously either to pressure or tension. But we found
that a bar cut out of a single crystal with its length at right angles to
the optic axis showed no signs of continuous stretching, even when
subjected to half the breaking stress ; and other experiments con
vinced us that an ice crystal will not change its shape under either
tension or pressure applied at right angles to its optic axis. These
results seemed to render it highly probable that an ice crystal was
not in any way plastic, and though, after the winter was over, we
wished that we had varied our experiments more, yet we quite
expected further experiments only to have corroborated the perfect
 " brittleness
                "
                   of  a  single crystal.
    Last winter    I resumed    the experiments alone.    Cutting small bars
from uniform crystals,       I supported their ends and hung weights half
way between the supports. The result was the discovery of a peculiar
kind of plasticity in an ice crystal. The clearest idea of the nature
of this plasticity is given by the following analogy : — A crystal
behaves as if it were built up of an infinite number of indefinitely
thin sheets of paper fastened together with some viscous substance
 which allows them to slide over each other with considerable diffi
 culty ; the sheets are perfectly inextensible and perfectly flexible.
 Initially, they are plane and 'perpendicular to the optic axis ; and
 when by the sliding action they become bent, the optic axis at any
 point is still normal to the sheet at that point. Thus, when a bar
 with the optic axis transverse to its length is placed so that the axis
 is horizontal, and the sheets of paper consequently vertical and longi
 tudinal, it refuses to take any plastic bend, however long the weight
 be applied. If the bar be now turned over, so that the sheets of paper
 are horizontal, quite a short interval suffices to produce a decided
 permanent depression of the middle of the bar.          In such a case, long
 narrow bubbles in the ice originally vertical remain vertical, but the
 optic axis bends with the bar, so that in one half of the bar it is
 inclined to its position in the other half. The sides of the bubbles
                                    " faults," showing that the sliding did
 were unbroken by steps or
  not take place at a limited number of surfaces, but was an all

260                           Prof. W. Stroud.                  [June  19,
pervading molecular effect.         This conception fully explains our
results of two years ago that bars of ice with the axis transverse
yield neither to pull nor thrust. If we had tried a bar with the optic
axis oblique, it would have stretched readily enough.
   The rate of distortion was very irregular, showing a strong ten
dency to increase with the length of time for which the weight was
applied.     When extra weight was put on, the rate increased more
than in proportion to the weight itself, bnt less than in proportion to
its square. The effect of temperature was generally masked by these
others, but there could be no doubt of its existence; the rate at — 2°
being in one case twice or three times as great as cceteris paribus at
 -10°.
   Plasticity, doe to sliding planes (Gleitfliichen), has been shown to
exist in rock salt, Iceland spar, &c, by Reusch and others.        In rock
salt these planes are parallel to the faces of the rhombic dodecahedron,
and in general there are several different sets.     As long ago as 1867,
Reusch suggested their existence in ice as a means of explaining the
observed plasticity.     I find that the observation that an ice crystal ia
plastic was made by Hagenbach in 1881, but he did not further
investigate the matter.
VII.    " Preliminary Note on a New Magnetometer."                 By W.
      Stroud, D.Sc, Professor of Physics, Yorkshire College,
      Leeds. Communicated by Professor A. W. ROCKER, F.R.S.
      Received May 30, 1890.
   The determination of the horizontal component of the earth's mag
netic field is of great importance, not only for the purpose of magnetic
surveys, but also for the determination of the absolute strength of an
electrical current, a measurement frequently required, not only for
scientific work of various kinds, but also for the calibration of
ammeters and voltmeters, and other electrical measuring instruments.
   The usual method of measuring this important quantity is that of
Ganss, but the method       is so long and laborious, and the apparatus
requisite   for accurate  determination  so expensive, that the measure
ment of H is avoided whenever practicable.            The writer, having
devised an instrument capable of determining H with great expedition
and accuracy, ventures to think that a description      of the instrument
may not be without interest.
   Gauss's method consists, as is well known, in finding (1) the deflec
tion produced upon a small magnetic needle by a large magnet of
moment M, placed at a known distance from, and in a certain position
with regard to, the needle; and (2) the time of vibration of the
deflecting magnet when suspended so as to oscillate in a horizontal

                        On a new Magnetometer.                         261
1890.]
plane about its position of equilibrium. The first operation gives the
value of M/H, or rather would give it if the distance between the
poles of the deflectors were known. To measure and allow for this
requires a second experiment, when the distance from the needle is
altered, and the new deflection read. In this way two simultaneous
equations are obtained, from which, by elimination of the distance
between the poles, an equation is obtained involving M/H as the only
unknown. The second operation gives the product of M and H, or
rather would give it if the moment of inertia of the magnet about its
axis of oscillation were known. As this quantity is not directly deter
minable,    a second equation    has to be    obtained   by increasing the
moment of inertia by a known amount, and determining the new time
of vibration. In this way two more simultaneous equations are
obtained,    from which, by elimination of the nnknown moment of
inertia, the value of MH is obtained in terms of measurable quan
tities.
    Doubtless Gauss's method is excellent when the moment of inertia,
as well as the distance between the poles of the deflector, is wanted,
but when these quantities are not required         (and they never are) a
more    direct method is very desirable.       In a magnetic survey, no
doubt, the determination would      be shortened    by measuring, once for
all, the moment of inertia of the deflector, and possibly the distance
 between the poles.
    In place of the laborious dynamical method of measuring MH,
 various statical methods have been suggested and employed, notably
 by suspending the deflecting magnet bifilarly and approximately east
 and west. The instrument to be described consists of a deflecting
 magnet of peculiar form, suspended bifilarly and approximately east
 and west ; in this case the lower end of the bifilars will be turned
 through an angle which forms a measure of MH. This magnet at
 the same time acts at a known distance as deflector to a little magnet,
 the deflection of which is a measure of M/H. Hereafter the deflecting
                                                      "
 magnet will be, for brevity, referred to as the        magnet," the little
 deflected magnet as the
                           " needle."
    The magnet consists of a piece of fine pianoforte wire, some 100 cm.
 long, and 0'06 cm. in diameter, bent into the form of a circle, or
                                                                 " end-on,"
 approximately so, the two ends being soldered together
 with no overlap.    This is magnetised similarly to a Gramme arma
 ture, with a north and south pole at opposite ends of a diameter (by
 placing it with this diameter between the two opposite poles of a
 weak electromagnet), and so suspended from the bifilar arrangement,
 that, when the bifilars are vertical, the magnet lies with its plane
 vertical, and approximately east and west, and with its magnetic axis
 approximately horizontal.     In its position of equilibrium, the couple
  which the earth exerts upon it is MH cos 0, where M denotes the

262                               Prof. W. Stroud.                       [June  19,
magnetic moment of the magnet, H the horizontal component of the
earth's magnetic field, and 0 the azimuthal deflection of the magnet.
The couple exerted by the weight W attached to the bifilars iB
        sin 0, where d, d' are the distances between the upper and lower
  42
ends of the bifilars, and      I is their length.        Hence we get
                                   MH =      ™Uan0
                                               42
                                                                               (1.).
    At the centre of the circular magnet there is suspended the little
needle, which will be deflected from the magnetic meridian through
an angle 0. In its position of equilibrium the couple exerted by H
is equal to the couple exerted by the magnet.                  The former couple is
mH sin 0 where m is the magnetic moment of the needle. Let us
imagine for the moment that the whole of the magnetism of the circu
lar magnet is concentrated at two points, one at each end of a hori
zontal diameter, and let each pole have a strength /i. The intensity
of field at the centre is — from each pole, or together              —  where r de-
                              r3                                     r3
notes the radius of the circular magnet ; so that, neglecting the distance
between the poles of the needle, the couple exerted on it by the
magnet will be
                    2um
                    —            . ,   „.        Mm        . ,   .
                           cos              or
                       2—       (0—0)            -jj-  cos (0—0)   ;
                 M
            .¦ .   cos  (0—0) =        H   sin 0  ;
                         ' "
                              M
                              H
                                     - cos
                                          r3sin0
                                            (0-0)'
                                       Wdd'    tan0cos(0—       0)            /fl ,
                                          ^
  ,
whence                       H3     =  —                :— ^-                 (2.)  .
                                       42r>           sin 0
    If the distances    between the bifilars and their length be so ad
justed that 0     = 0, i.e., that the magnet and the needle turn through
approximately the same angle in the same sense, then
                             H2     _ Wdd'       tan0
                                        4ZT-3    sin  0
Or, if the deflections 0, 0 be read off in the usual way with telescope
or lamp and scale, then, to a certain degree of approximation,
                                       Wid'      0
                                   ~
                                        4Zr>     0'

                                   On a new Magnetometer.                              263
1890.]
Thus H is determinable in terms of              a mass, the value            of the accele
ration of gravity at the place, certain distances, and the ratio of
two deflections.
     A possible modification of the method consists in making 0 accu
rately equal to 0 by varying W, d, or I, or, better, by turning the
upper end of the bifilars through a known angle.                       So far, however,
the writer      has    preferred    to  adjust  the   constants  of  the  instrument so
that for H = 0-18, 0 shall be nearly equal to                   <j>. It will be noticed
that     if  telescope     and  scale    be   used  there is   no   necessity   to deter
mine the distance of the scale from the magnets except very roughly
indeed, as we are requiring the ratio of the tangent and the sine of
two not very large angles. Thus the necessity of measuring two
angles of deflection instead of one as in Gauss's method                        really an
                                                                                 is
advantage,       as      itobviates    the  necessity   of   determining    either  angle
absolutely.*
      The special feature of the circular form of deflecting magnet                        is
 this — that       it    a matter of utter indifference what the distribution
                        is
 of magnetism in              may be, provided
                              it                     it     be circular and the little
 needle    be   at   the  centre.    This   can  be  readily seen, for       we imagine
                                                                            if
 some north-seeking magnetism situated at an angular altitude                         xre
 ferred to the centre, the earth's moment on this will vary as cos x>
 but at the same time the intensity of field at the centre resulting
 therefrom and measured horizontally varies as cos                     xtoo, so that not
 only    is the position      of   the   magnetic     axis  unimportant, but the dis
 tribution of magnetism may even be irregular without invalidating
 equation (2). Moreover,                ifwe are careful in the magnetisation to
 get the poles in something like the right positions,                  it  not necessary
                                                                            is
 that the magnet should be absolutely circular all that is necessary
                                                               ;
 is that the magnet should be circular only in the neighbourhood of
 the poles.         In the above equations, then, will stand for half the
                                                          r
  polar diameter of the magnet. Again, with a magnet of moderate
  dimensions the needle need not be placed rigorously at the centre,
 since    it       in
                  is     a minimum field arising from the action of the two
  opposite poles on opposite sides. To illustrate this, we may take the
  case of a magnet, not unduly large, 30 cm. in diameter; then                         the
                                                                                      if
  little needle, instead of being at the centre,           is    displaced horizontally
 1    cm. on either side, allowing, in fact, a range of               cm., the intensity
                                                                       2
  of field at the centre           only
                                   is     increased   by   12 per  cent., so that H will
  be too small by 0'6 per cent.                 The needle can easily be arranged
  within      2mm. of the centre, and in this case H will only be affected
  to 1    part in 11,000.         It will thus be seen that even for the most
  accurate work a comparatively small magnet may be used, and the
   little needle need not be placed rigorously at the centre. All the ad-
     *   It must
               be understood that the writer  not recommending that small angles
                                                is
 of deflection should be used (see Note appended).

  264                        Prof. W. Stroud.                    [June 19,
  vantages of this form of deflector have not even yet been enumerated .
  The circular magnet may be made, or, rather, requires to be made,
  very weak indeed ; this arises from the fact that the action of the two
  poles on the needle is a summational instead of being a differential
  one, as in the usual method of performing the deflection experiment.
  There can be little doubt, too, that it is an advantage rather than the
 reverse to use only weak magnets        in determining the value of H.
  Lastly, any variation in magnetic     moment arising from changes in
  temperature or other causes does not affect the determination, and,
 what is a matter of some importance in accurate determinations,
 there is no correction     corresponding    to that required in Gauss's
 method    for the varying inductive  action   of the earth in the different
 positions which the deflector assumes with reference to the magnetic
 meridian.
                         Description of Instrument.
     The instrument consists of a rectangular wooden box, ABCD,
 fig. 1, mounted on levelling screws, and provided with a plate-glass
 window in one of the large vertical sides, which can be opened for ob
 taining access to the interior. Attached to the upper side of this
 box is a second, EF, also provided with a door for adjusting the
bifilar8 G,G in position.      The little needle N is suspended at the
 centre of the large box by a silk fibre some 10 cm. long attached to
 a brass arm, K, which is screwed into the side of the box opposite to
 the plate-glass door.    Fastened to the needle at right angles to its
 magnetic axis is a plane mirror (P), 1 cm. in diameter. The needle
and attached mirror are prevented from turning completely round by
a forked piece of wood, F, which also enables the experimenter to
 observe when the needle is at the centre of the box.
    Soldered to the large circular magnet MMM are two hooks of
brass of an indented \/ -shape, H,H, figs. I and 2. These are for
suspending the magnet from the brass bar L, which forms the lower
end of the bifilar arrangement (figs. 1 and 2).         The form of this
bar is a knife-edge of brass with a \/-notch, Q, near one end, so
made with the object of enabling the circular magnet to be un
hooked and reversed in position.       This eliminates any error arising
from the circumstance that the plane of the circular magnet may
not be placed accurately magnetic east and west when the bifilars
are vertical.    A long aluminium wire, W, riveted at each end to the
bar, descends in the form of a wide loop, and carries a plane
mirror, R, to enable the deflection of the circular magnet to be read
off. This mirror is placed just below the mirror P, previously
mentioned, so that only one telescope is needed in reading the de
flections of both needle and magnet.        Soldered to the bar is a strip

1890.]                   On a new Magnetometer.                          2G5
 of thin sheet brass, some 1"3 cm. in width, which is bent over at
 the top to form a wide hook, S, figs. 1 and 2, under which the bifilars
 pass. At the top of the instrument is attached a similar hook, S',
 from which the bifilars are suspended. The widths of these hooks
 (which form      the distances  between   the   bifilars at the top and
 bottom) can     be read  with  a micrometer    gauge with certainty to
 0*001 cm., and   by estimation more accurately.      The circular magnet,
 bar, and attached mirror are made as light as they can possibly be
made.
    Pieces of wood   (X, X)  are attached to the bottom and two shallow
sides of the box in which the circular magnet is suspended in such a
 way as to leave only about O'l cm. clearance for the magnet when it
 is oscillating before coming to rest. As the needle, too, can only
 vibrate freely when within a millimetre or    so of the centre, it  is clear
    vol. xlviii.                                                   u

                               Prof. W. Stroud.                               [June 19,
no observation can be made unless the needle is within at the most
2mm. of the centre of the magnet.
 To read the deflections 0,       </>,
                               lamp and scale, or telescope and scale,
                                         a
may be used. A slight difficulty arises with a single telescope and a
single scale when setting up the instrument for the first time, owing
to the two mirrors not usually making the same or sufficiently nearly
the same angles with the vertical.     Either two telescopes and one
scale, or two        scales and one telescope, may be nsed      but the best
                                                                       ;
plan     is   to use one telescope and one scale, and to bend the aluminium
wire supporting the lower mirror till the latter occupies a suitable
position with respect to the vertical.
   Corrections will have to be made for (1) the torsion of the silk
fibre susDending the needle, (2) the torsion of the silk fibres suspend
ing themagnets, and (3) the couple which the little needle exerts on
the magnet.      So far as the first two corrections are concerned, they
can be allowed for in the ordinary way.        For the present instrument
the first correction affects H to the extent of one part in a thousand                  ;
the second       utterly negligible.
                  is                    It a matter of interest to deter
                                                   is
mine the magnitude of the couple exerted by the needle on the
magnet compared with that exerted by the earth.           Now, the earth's
couple on the magnet =MH cos             and on the needle = ntH sin
                                              0,                        so         0,
that the fractional error in equation (1), made by neglecting this
effect, would be m sin 0/M cos       or, practically, m0/M, which, for the
                                         0,
present instrument, would amount to about -g^, since by experiment
M = 91 c.g.8. units, and m = 1*5 c.g.s. units and           = 10°. This
                                                                      0
correction    then, by no means, negligible, since
                 is                                would affect H to
                                                                 it
the extent of    in 700. The error arising from this source could,
                       1
however, be made very much smaller by diminishing m or, preferably,
by increasing M.
   The following results have been obtained for the value of H in the
physical laboratory   of the Yorkshire College, Leeds, which was
designed by Professor Riicker, so as to be as free as possible from
iron which could not be removed               if
                                      necessary.   The instrument was
set up in the middle of the room, the nearest iron being some   metres         4
distant, and consisting of     grate, roughly
                                  a             in the  same  magnetic
meridian as the instrument.     This will clearly give a higher value
for H than     the grate had been removed
                  if                             but the object of the
                                                           ;
experiments was to determine H, not for Leeds, but for one place in
the physical laboratory.
     May 17th, 1890.
    I.                   Scale,  metre long,
                                         a                  placed roughly 97 cm.
from the centre of the instrument.
                                                                       cm.
                  Reading for magnet before reversal            . .   10-33
                     „     „    „    alter     „                . .   52 59
                                                   Difference   ..    42-26

18 'JO.]                     On a new Magnetometer.                               267
                                                                    cm.
               Reading for needle before reversal.         . . .    6'21
                     „      „     „    after                      88-69
                                             Difference            8248
          Weight suspended from bifilars = IT37 grams.
          Length, of bifilars measured by cathetometer = 30'07.
          Distance apart of bifilars at top = 0 5092 inch = T293 cm.
                                          below = 0-5173          „   =   1-314   „
          Diameter of circular magnet =            27-50 cm.
       From which data               H =    0-1803.
   II.  May   20, 1890.      4 p.m.   Scale 2 metres long, placed 2 metres
from instrument.         Distance between bifilars below altered and weight
changed in consequence.
                                                                    cm.
               Reading for magnet before reversal            . . lo3'66
                     „      „      „    after        „       ..    7734
                                              Difference     ..    76 32
                                                                    cm.
               Reading for needle before reversal.        . . .  191-76
                    „      „      „    after       „               2540
                                             Difference          166-36
         Weight =       11 89  grams.
         Distance between bifilars below = 0 5126 inch = 1'302 cm.
         Length of bifilars = 27'81        cm.    Other constants      as before.
                                     H =   01805.
   III.  May    20.    5 p.m.   Constants same as in        II.
                                                                    cm.
              Reading for magnet before reversal             . . 153'69
                                  „     after         „      ..   77-72
                                                Difference.    .   75 97
                                                                    cm.
              Reading for      needle before reversal.    . . .  192'51
                                  „    after        „    ....     2667
                                             Difference          165-84
                                     H = 01803.
                                                                          u 2

   208                         Prof. W. Stroud.                  [June   19,
  By comparing     experiments   II and III, it would seem that the mag
   netic moment of the magnet had altered, probably owing to handling.
   This alteration does not, however, in any way affect the result, except
   in so far as the magnet itself expands with rise of temperature.
      See'ng that these results have been obtained with a rough instru
  ment    made on the premises, and with very inferior mirrors, the
  method seems very satisfactory.
      For the determination of the strensth of a current in absolute
  measure the writer would suggest placing two coils of wire, each of
  known geometrical form, the one with its plane in the magnetic
  meridian on the east side of the instrument, the other similarly on
  the west side with their axes       passing  through  the centre of the
  needle.    The two coils attached to the instrument would form in fact
  a Helmholtz standard galvanometer with the addition of the circular
  magnet with bifilar suspension.     Observations of (1) the deflection of
  the circular magnet on reversal ; (2) the deflection of the needle
  under the action of the circular magnet ; (3) the deflection of the
  needle when the circular magnet is removed altogether and the
  current traverses the coils will give the value of the current in
  absolute measure correct, it is believed, to one part in a thousand if
 the geometrical constant of the coils can be determined to that degree
 of accuracy.
     Now an interesting point arises in connexion with the possible
 accuracy attainable by this method.        The writer believes that with
 apparatus of the dimensions described there is no difficulty in
 determining each one of the quantities d, d', I readily to the tboo P*rt.
 With a telescope the deflections 0, <p can certainly be relied upon to
 that degree of accuracy, at all events if 0, qb are each more than 5°.
 A little uncertainty arises in connexion with the measurement of r,
 and this is very important, as H oc r-l. Is the pole to be considered
 at the middle of the wire of the circular magnet, or nearer the surface
 of the wire, and if so on which side ? This question cannot be
 answered with certainty.      Beckoning from the middle of the wire in
determining the distance between the poles, the maximum error
possible in a wire of O'OG cm. diameter is 0"03 cm., and this with a
 radius of 13 cm. gives 1 part in 300 as the extreme error that could
be made in H.      We may, however, be nearly certain that the pole
cannot be more than half the radius of the wire distant from its
centre. We may therefore say that about 1 in 500 represents the
possible   error in H arising from this cause.      Clearly, however, it is
advisable on all accounts to replace the circular wire of the magnet
by a flat steel ribbon bent into the form of a circle.
    It will be noticed that the effect of variation in temperature in
altering the value of the constant of the instrument can be allowed
for with great accuracy, as the coefficients of expansion of the

 18H0.]                   On a new Magnetometer.                        2I»
different metals used in the construction    of  the instrument are known
with sufficient accuracy. It is probably better not to include the
length of the bifilars in the constant of the instrument, except for
rough work, as both variation in temperature and in the hygrometric
state of the air will prodnce sensible alterations in length.
   An objection may be taken to the method when very accurate
determinations are desired on the ground that a knowledge of the
value of the acceleration of gravity at the place of observation is
requisite before absolute determinations can be calculated.             The
writer believes, however, that a quartz fibre suspension for the magnet
would be preferable to the bifilar for magnetic survey work. It is
perhaps needless to say that provision would be made for clamping
magnet and needle during transport.        To convert the readings of the
instrument into absolute measure, it will be necessary to determine H
at   as nearly as possible the same   place and at the same time by coin-
paring the indications of the instrument with those of a large
standard instrument of the bifilar type previously described.
    In connexion with the erection of such      a standard  instrument,  the
points to     be borne in mind are, that all corrections arising from
(1)   torsion  of the silk fibres, (2) uncertainty in the position of the
poles of the large magnet, (3) couple exerted by needle on magnet,
shall be made as small as possible. To effect this, the bifilars should
be longer, the magnet should be made of thin band steel instead of
wire, and the diameter of this magnet should be increased in order
that r may be measured more accurately, and in order that the magnetic
moment of the large magnet may be increased without unduly
increasing the deflection of the needle. The writer is at present
engaged in erecting such an instrument in the physical laboratory of
the Yorkshire College, and hopes to be able to attain with it results
approximating in accuracy to 1 part in 10,000.
    In conclusion, the present method of determining H is believed to
be very much superior to Gauss's in the following respects : —
    (1.) The necessity of making a determination of a time of vibration
(always a tedions operation) is avoided.
    (2.) The determination of a moment of inertia is avoided.
    (3.) The determination of the distance between the two poles of
the deflector is avoided.
    (4.) Variation of magnetic moment of the deflector during the
progress of an experiment produces no error; neither does variation
in inductive action of the earth produce an error.
    (5.) The magnet needs only to bo very feebly magnetised, as its
action on the needle is due to the sum of the actions of the two poles.
    (6.) The time occupied in a determination of H is only a few
minutes when once the constant of the instrument has been
 determined.

-270                        On a new Magnetometer.                 [June 19,
     (7.) The instrument,      exclusive of telescope and scale, can be made
at a very small cost.
                                —
     [Note added June 17. In comparing the accuracy of the pro
posed instrument with the Kew, it is necessary to distinguish between
 the determination of N in absolnte measure, say, for laboratory pur
 poses, such as the measurement of the strength of electrical        currents,
and determinations where the requirements are the estimation of
differences in the value of H at different stations, say, for the purposes
of magnetic surveys.          For an absolute determination a great deal
 can be said for an instrument in which the only measurements are
 certain angles, certain distances, and a certain weight, and which
does not       require a determination of the influence of the earth's
inductive      action on the magnet, nor of the variation of the magnetic
moment of the magnet with temperature, nor of the position of the
poles of the magnet.          With reference to magnetic survey work, a
comparison may be instituted between the Kew instrument and that
nnder discussion by assuming the constants of each to be known ; then
in   each case angular deflections are being measured, and other things
being equal, the accuracy obtainable will be approximately propor
tional to the magnitude of the angles observed. Now in the Kew
instrument, the deflection produced by the deflector in its near posi
tion is about     24°, and in its far position about 12°.     Something like
 the    difference between these deflections, or 12°, will represent the
order of angle to be estimated as accurately as possible.            It is not
 possible in the Kew instrument to materially increase these angles
 without unduly increasing the influence of the distribution of magne
 tism in the deflector.      In the present instrument there seems to be no
 reason why deflections of 45° or thereabouts should not be obtained.
 This reasoning would seem to show that the present instrument could
                                                           1
 be made considerably more sensitive than the Kew.
     It  need, perhaps, scarcely be mentioned that the writer is not advo
 cating the use of telescope and scale for measuring the angular
 deflections in preference to an azimuth circle.         The former method
  (quite    unsuitable  for  measuring large angles)    was  only adopted in
  the first instance to roughly test the capabilities of the instrument in
  the absence      of any graduated circle.    In a final instrument all the
  deflections will be referred to a graduated azimuth circle, as in the
  Kew instrument at present.
      A few points of detail may be just mentioned in conclusion : — (1.) To
  eliminate any error arising in the bifilar suspension from the distance
 between the centres of the silk fibres being slightly different from
 the breadth of the metal hook, the writer proposes to control the
 distance between the upper ends of the bifilars from the outside by
 :^n aperture     in a piece of metal, and to control the distance between,

1890.]        On the Cingulum,    $c, of the Marmoset Monkey.            271
the lower ends from the inside by the breadth of the hook.           If now
the distances between the fibres top and bottom are nearly the same,
no sensible error will be made by taking the product of these distances
as equal to the product of Ihe breadth of the hook and the width of
the metal aperture.       (2.) To render the controlling couple produced
by the deflected bifilars independent of temperature, it is proposed to
 select metals with appropriate coefficients of expansion for regulating
 the dimensions of the bifilars top and bottom, and to alter the length
 of the silk fibres by an appropriate arrangement, so that a pointer
 attached to the hook at the lower end shall always come to a fiducial
 point upon    a strip of brass attached to the metal framework which
 forms the upper suspension.        The neatest way of doing this seems to
 be to cement the plane and silvered side of a short-focus plano-convex
 lens to the strip of brass, and to arrange its position with reference
 to the pointer so that the tip of the latter i6 exactly in the focus of
 the lens. In this position the tip and its reflected image will appear
 just in coincidence, and if necessary      a lens may be   provided   in the
 side of the instrument for observing the relative positions           of the
 pointer and its image and adjusting them to coincidence.]
  VIII. " On    the course of the Fibres of the Cingulum and the
         Posterior Parts of the Corpus Callosum and of the Fornix
         in the Marmoset Monkey." By Charles E. Beevok, M.D.,
         F.R.C.P.     Communicated by Professor Ferriek, F.R.S.
         Received   June   12, 1690.
                                    (Abstract.)
     This paper   has for its scope the investigation  by the microscope of
 the course of certain fibre-tracts         in  the brain which have not
  hitherto been minutely examined.
     After an introduction showing the difficulties of tracing these
  fibres by dissection and by other means, the method of investigation is
  given.    This consisted in cutting serial sections of the brain of the
  Marmoset Monkey (Hapale jaetans and penicillata) after hardening
  in bichromate of potash ; the sections were stained by Weigert's and
  also by Pal's hematoxylin methods, whereby the fibres are differenti
  ated. In this way, a complete series of sections was made in the
  sagittal and horizontal planes, and almost a complete series in the
  frontal direction, and by combining the appearances found in the
  three planes, a mental picture of the whole could thus be obtained.
     In the description of this brain, emphasis is laid on its small size,
  which renders it very easy of manipulation, while, from its high
   position  in the animal    scale, its general arrangement is comparable

 272        On the Cingulum,  §c, of tJte  Marmoset Monkey.     [June 19,
 with the brain of man. Moreover, the slight amount of convolution
 on its median surface is a very great advantage in tracing fibres ;
 this is especially the case with the calloso-marginal         sulcus, the
 absence of which enables the fibres of the cingulum to be followed
 in a way not obtainable in the brains of other apes and of man.
     The cingulum, or the fibres of the gyrus fornicatus, is described in
 three parts   : —
     1. Horizontal, above the corpus callosnm;
    2.  Anterior, in front of this body ;
    3.  Posterior, from behind the corpus callosum to the anterior end
           of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe.
    The horizontal part consists, not of fibres extending through its
 whole length, but of internuncial fibres coursing between the gyrus
 fornicatus and the centrum ovale; the anterior part connects the
 olfactory nerve with the frontal region ; the posterior part contains
internuncial fibres between the gyrus hippocampi and the inferior
surface of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe.
    The cingulum is not connected with the hippocampal lobule and
its contained nucleus amygdalae, as was considered by Broca.
    Reference is made to an operation in the monkey, performed for
the author by Professor Horsley, in which the cingulum was divided,
producing degeneration in it in a posterior direction.
    Prom the relation of the gyrus fornicatus to sensation found by
Professors Horsley and Schafer, it is suggested that the cingulum
joins this gyrus representing sensation with the part of the centrum
ovale connected with the so-called motor cortex.
    The calcarine fibres bounding the calcarine fissure are described as
internuncial fibres analogous to the cingulum, and the superficial fibres
of the gyrus fornicatus are considered to be a separate tract and not
part of the cingulum.
    The posterior part of the corpus callosum is described in three
parts   : —
    1.  The body, giving off the tapetum to supply the cortex bounding
          externally the posterior and descending cornua of the lateral
          ventricle.
    2.  The splenium, ending in the forceps major, sending fibres to the
          inner part of the occipital lobe below the calcarine fissure.
    3.  An intermediate fart between the two former, forming with the
          tapetum the roof of the posterior cornu, and supplying the
          cortex of the upper lip of the calcarine fissure.
No connexion between these fibres and those of the internal capsule,
as described by Professor Hamilton, can be found.
    The fornix comprises the body and the posterior crura.              The
body can      be  separated, while in the septum lucidum, into (1) a

1890.]        Increase of Intracranial Pressure or     Tension.         273
median    and (2) a lateral part.      The median part can be traced
horizontally backwards into the septum between the body and the
spleninm of the corpus callosum, bat not to join the cingulum as
described    by Meynert.      The lateral fibres descend the lateral
ventricle, becoming the taenia hippocampi or fimbria, and end in the
cortex of the cornu Ammonis, while the alvens of this body receives
fibres from its cortex, and then passes to its under surface to send
fibres to the inferior surface of the temporo-sphenoi'dal lobe. Besides
these parts, there are the transverse fibres connecting the cornua
Ammonis of opposite sides.
   Particular attention is directed to the different degree of staining
by Weigert's method of the corpns callosum, fornix, and tamia
semicircularis, of which the last is scarcely coloured, suggesting that
it is a degenerated or non-developed structure.
IX. " On    the Changes produced in the Circulation and Respira
      tion by Increase of the Intracranial Pressure or Tension."
      By Walter Spencer, M.S., Assistant Surgeon to West
      minster Hospital, and Victor Horsley. B.S., F.R.S.                Re
      ceived June 12, 1890.
                                 (Abstract.)
    The authors have made for some time the effect of an increase in
intracranial pressure or tension the subject of an experimental
inquiry, and they have in this paper recorded the results obtained, in
so far as the increase of intracranial pressure affects the circulation and
respiration.
    They conclude that the increase in intracranial pressure influences
the circulation and respiration through the diminution in the physio
logical activity of the medulla which it causes, and show that the
changes produced by the pressure assume a seqnence according to the
degree to which the activity of the medulla is impaired.
   The authors first give an historical resume of the work of previous
observers,   and then   a  short introduction on some anatomical and
physiological details which relate to the part of the subject under
consideration.
   The method chiefly employed of increasing intracranial pressure
was by inserting a small rubber bag through a trephine boie in
the skull, and then distending the bag by means of a column of
mercury, which served to show at once the pressure required to dis
tend the bag, and the extent to which the bag was distended.
   The capacity of the thin- walled rubber bag, when distended, was at

274          Increase   of Intracranial Pressure or Tension.             [June   19,
the same time the measurement of the amount to which the cranial
content had been lessened.
  The results are divided into two           classes   :   —
      I. Those in which the pressure was made on any part of the
           brain.
  II.    Those in which   it was made by passing the bag into the cavity
           of the 4th ventricle.                               <
   In the former case the heart, the blood pressure, and the respira
tion were all affected in varying degrees ; in the latter case it was
found possible to separate the effect upon the heart, the blood pressure,
and the respiration respectively.
  The following is a summary of the chief results obtained : —
  I. The Heart. — A considerable increase of the intracranial tension
was required to influence the heart; it became slowed and finally
arrested.  This happened more readily after respiration had ceased,
and required a higher pressure to produce it when artificial respira
tion was employed, whilst division of both vagi nerves abolished any
slowing or arrest. The arrest, when produced, continued permanently,
unless the pressure was quickly removed, or artificial respiration
employed, or the vagi divided.             But if the pressure was maintained
whilst  artificial respiration enabled the heart to start again,
then the eardio-inhibitory influence was gradually lost, so that the
heart returned from being very slow to its normal rate, or increased
beyond the latter until the rate became equal to that seen after
division of the vagi. When the vagi were divided at this stage the
rate of the heart did not alter.  But if the pressure were removed,
and   a pause made (the vagi being intact), the cardio-inhibitory
control was gradually regained, so that the heart could be slowed, or
arrested afresh.
   The Blood Pressure. — A primary rise, small in the dog, larger in
the monkey, was followed by a fall distinct from that produced by the
slowing of the heart, and not necessarily accompanying it. When the
heart started again the blood pressure rose, finally reaching the level
seen                              that no further rise took place when
        after division of the vagi,   so
this was done.    But the power of prodncing a fall of blood pressure
was easily lost, for when the intracranial tension was raised for the
second time no fall took place, and the blood pressure continued at a
normal level or above, even although the heart was greatly slowed.
After division of the vagi the blood pressure was raised by increasing
the intracranial tension and by artificial respiration, sd that it conld
be maintained at a level between 300 and 400 mm. Hg for consider
able periods.
   Respiration. — This was likewise impaired and arrested.   Its arrest
reacted upon the heart and the blood pressure upon                 it,
                                                          so that after

1890.]             On the   British Earthquakes of 1889.              275
the rise of blood pressure respiration occurred, even although a much
higher intracranial tension was maintained than had been sufficient
to arrest it when the blood pressure was lower.
    II. By the direct application of pressure in the upper part of the
4th ventricle a slowing of the heart with a rise of blood pressure was
caused, whilst rapid respiration continued, so rapid as even to be
nearly three times the rate of the heart in some cases. Pressure
below the calamus scriptorius arrested the respiration without
directly influencing the heart, whilst in the lower part of the 4th
ventricle respiration was impeded or arrested along with a fall in
blood pressure, and some slowing of the heart, followed by arrest,
after the respiration had ceased.
    Numerous observations are recorded which are, in many cases,
combinations of the foregoing, and therefore not suitable for con
densation in this abstract.
    Tracings are furnished illustrating each point advanced.
X.     « On   the    British Earthquakes of 1889." By Charles
        Davison, M.A., Mathematical Master at King Edward's
        High School, Birmingham.           Communicated by Professor
        T. G.  Bonnet,    D.Sc, F.R.S. Received June 16, 1890.
                                  (Abstract.)
    The nature of the evidence on which the accounts are founded is
 stated, and the method of study described.       If the disturbed area be
 of small dimensions, and if its boundary be approximately circular
 or slightly elliptical in form, it is assumed that the centre of the area
 coincides very closely with the epicentrum of the earthquake. During
 the year 1889 there were at least five earthquakes whose epicentra
 were situated within the area of the British Islands.
     1. Edinburgh .Earthquakes, January 18. — (a.)      First shock about
 4 h. 10 m. Intensity (according to the Bossi-Forel scale, of which a
 translation is given) about V. Very little is known about this
 shock.
    (6.) Second shock, 6 h. 53 m.      Intensity VI. The disturbed area
 is slightly elliptical in form, being 30 miles long from north to south
 and 2Q\ miles broad from east to west; area about 620 square miles.
 Iu most places the shock consisted of a single vibration. The charac
 teristic earthquake-sounds were heard in many places, and these places
 are confined to an area which is neither coextensive nor concentric with
 the disturbed area. The epicentrum is at a point about 3 miles VV.
 42° S. of Balerno, and the centre of the sound-area about 2| miles to
 the south or south-east of this point. The earthquake was probably

27(5                           Mr. C. Davison.                     [June  19,
connected with the first of the N.W. and S.E. faults of the Pentlands
on the north-west side of the axis; a fault which passes close by tlie
centre of the sound-area, and has a downthrow to the north-west.
The inclination of this fault is unknown, but is probably about 75°
to the horizon ; the depth of the seismic force may therefore be about
8£ miles.    It is shown that the earthquake was probably caused by
the impulsive friction produced by a slip of the fault referred to ;
that this slip took place near the middle of the length of the fanlt ;
that the slip increased the throw of the fault ; that the slip-area was
very short, possibly less than a mile in horizontal length, but that it
extended from a depth of several miles to within a short distance          of
the surface.
   2. Lancashire Earthquake,     February 10. — 22 h. 36 m. Intensity VI.
The disturbed area is nearly circular in form, about 55 miles in
diameter, and 2480 square miles in area.          The nature of the shock
varied with the position of the place of observation.           In, or nearly
in, a line with the Irwell fault the number of vibrations was gener
ally greater than in places more remote.            As in the Edinburgh
earthquake, the usual sounds were heard in many places which are
confined to a nearly circular area, which is neither coextensive nor
concentric with the disturbed area.        The duration of the sound was
generally greater at places in, or nearly in, a line with the Irwell
fault than at places more remote. The epicentrnm, which is prob
ably coincident with the common centre of the disturbed area and
of the isoseismal line of intensity V, is at a point 2 miles N.N.E. of
Bolton, and the centre of the sound-area is about 3j miles S.S.E. of
the epicentrum.        The earthquake was probably caused by a slip
of the great Irwell fault, which passes close by the centre of the
sound-area, having a downthrow to the north-east.             If so, the slip
must have increased the throw of the fault. The horizontal length
of the slip-area was possibly not much more than a mile. The
seismic focus is perhaps at a depth of about 3f miles, but the slip
seems to have extended to within a short distance of the surface.
    The excentricity of the sound-area in these two cases throws light
on the origin of the sound- vibrations.       Seismographic records show
that near the beginning of an earthquake the period increases with
the amplitude, and it is suggested that the sound-vibrations are the
 very minute vibrations of short period which proceed from the upper
 and lateral   margins of the slip-area.       It is pointed out that this
theory explains    all  the known  characteristics of earthquake-sounds.
    3. Ben Nevis Earthquake, May 22. — 13 h. 58 m.           Intensity about
IV.    This fchock  may    have been connected   with the  great fault which
 crosses Scotland from Inverness in a soiith-west direction.
    4. Kintyre Earthquake, July 15. — About 18 h.         Intensity  V.  The
 disturbed  area is roughly elliptical in form, the longer axis being in

 1890.]           On the  British Earthquakes of 1889.                   277
a direction about N.    30°  E. to S. 30° W.  ; it is about    25 miles long
and 18 miles broad, and about     350 square miles    in area.   The sound-
area appears to be coextensive with the disturbed area, but the
observations are too few in number to prove this. The epicentrum
is about 3^ miles south-east of Clachan.       Dr. Lapworth, in a note to
the author, describes briefly the geological structure of the disturbed
area, and remarks that its longer axis coincides in direction with the
theoretical position of the southern zone of contrary movement in
that district.
    5. East   Cornwall Earthquake,      October   7. — About 13 h. 45 m.
Intensity IV. The disturbed area is elliptical in form, 25 miles long
and 20 miles broad, the longer axis running east and west, and about
400 square miles in area.     The nature of the shock varied somewhat
throughout the disturbed area, but its intensity was very nearly
constant. Near the centre of the area the earthquake-sounds were
the most prominent feature, but towards the boundary these died out.
The sound-area may, however, have been coextensive with the
 disturbed area, and it is probable that the sound-focus is nearer the
surface than the seismic focus. The epicentrum is at a point about
 2$ miles south-west of Altarnon, which is not far from the centre of
the great granite boss of eastern Cornwall. The longer axis of the
 disturbed area is also parallel to the axis of folding of the district.
    Doubtful Earthquakes.
                           — Two shocks, supposed to be those of earth
 quakes, are briefly described, but the evidence is insufficient to prove
their seismic origin: — (1) Little Rhondda Valley (S. Wales),
June 22, about 22 h. 30 m. ; (2) Lyme Regis, July 5, between
 23 h. and 23 h. 15 m.    The former of these may possibly have' been
 caused by subsidences of the rock over worked-out          portions of the
coal mines.
    In conclusion, the differences between British and Swiss earth
 quakes are pointed out. The former are rare, and their disturbed
areas more or less circular, indicating short fault-slips ; the latter
are frequent, and their disturbed areas elongated, their axes being
parallel to those of the neighbouring mountain ranges, and the fault-
 slips correspondingly long.    They are witnesses respectively of com
 paratively late and early stages in the process of mountain evolution.

278                       Prof. G. H. Darwin.                    [June 19,
XI. " On    the Harmonic Analysis of Tidal Observations of High
      and Low Water." By G. H. Darwin, F.R.S., Plumian Pro
      fessor and Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. Received
      June   17, 1890.
                            §  1. Introduction.
   Extensive use of the tide-gauge has only been made in recent years,
and by far the largest number of tidal records consist only of obser
vations of high and low water (H. and L.W.).        Such observations have
usually been reduced by determining the law governing the relationship
between the times and heights of H. and L.W. and the positions of the
moon and sun. This method is satisfactory so long as the diurnal
inequalities are small, but it becomes both complex and unsatisfac
tory when the diurnal inequality is large. In such cases the harmonic
notation for the tide is advantageous, and as, except in the North
Atlantic Ocean, the diurnal inequality is generally considerable, a
proper method of evaluating the harmonic constants from H. and
L.W". observations is desirable.
   The essential difference between the method here proposed and that
followed by Laplace and his successors is that they introduced astro
nomical considerations from the first and applied them to each H. and
L.W., whereas the positions of the sun and moon will only be required
here at a single instant of time.        In their method, the time of
moon's transit, and hence    the  interval,  was found for each tide ; the
age  of the moon, and the moon's and sun's parallaxes and declinations
were   also required.    An extensive table from the astronomical
ephemeris was thus necessary, and there still remained the classifica
tion of heights and intervals according to the age of moon, and two
parallaxes, and two declinations.      The classification could hardly be
less laborious, and was probably less mechanical, than the sorting
processes employed below.       There is probably, therefore, a consider
able saving of labour   in the  present method, and, besides,    I conceive
that the results are more satisfactory when expressed in the harmonic
notation.
   My object   has been to make the whole process a      purely mechanical
one, and, although   nothing can render the reduction of tidal observa
tions a light piece of work, I believe that it is here presented in a
form which is nearly as short as possible.
   The analytical difficulties to be encountered in such a task are
small, but the arrangement of a heavy mass of arithmetic, so as to
involve a minimum of labour and therefore of expense, is by no means
easy.    How far I have succeeded must be left to the decision of those
who will, I hope, use the methods here devised.

1890]             Harmonic Analysis of rlidal Observations.                       279
   When a question of this kind is attacked, the solution cannot be
deemed complete unless the investigation is left in such a state that
an ordinary trained computer is able to use it as , a code of instruc
tions by which to reduce a series of observations, without any know
ledge of tidal theory.
    An actual numerical           example is thus essential, both to test the
method     and    to   serve   as  instructions to a computer. The Appendix
contains so much of the reduction of three months of observation at
 Bombay as will serve as such a code.               If the series be longer than
three months, or in such cases as the proper treatment of gaps in the
series, it is necessary to refer back to the body of the paper for
instructions.
    I now pass to tho theoretical          reasons for the rules for reduction.
                                      § 2. Notation.
    The notation of the Report to the British Association for 1883,
and in use in the Indian tidal work and elsewhere, is here followed.
    The earth's angular velocity is denoted by 7 ; the hourly mean
motions of the moon, sun, and lunar perigee by a,                       w (7,, eeX^vr/,
ijXiov) ; the mean longitudes of moon, sun, and lunar perigee by
s, h, p, and the mean solar hour angle by t.               The R.A. and longitude
in the lunar orbit of the intersection of the equator with the lunar
orbit are v, f ; and N is the longitude of the moon's node.
    The several harmonic tides are denoted by arbitrarily chosen initial
letters.    Those with which we shall principally have to deal are —
                                      Semi-diurnal.
        Name.         Initial.    Speed.                   Equilibrium  argument
Principal lunar         M2     2(7-')                 2t +  2(fc-i>)-2(«-f)
      „      solar      8,     2(7-,)                                2t
Lnni-solar ....         K,     27                           2t + 2(h-v")
                               27 3<r + v          2t + 2(/i—\)-2(s-f)-(«-p)
                        N
                                                         -
Larger elliptic                    —
 Smaller      „         L      2y — a — sr     2t + 2(7,   v) -2(«-f ) + (s-p)      + *
                                         Diurnal.
 Luni-solar   . . . .   Kj     7                           t+ (h— v')— \ir
 Lunar                  0      7~2<r                  t+(7i-v)-2(*-f)
Solar                   P      7-27                             t-Zi + Jir
    The symbol H denotes the mean semi-range of any one of the
tides, and k its retardation of phase behind what it would be accord
 ing to the equilibrium theory ; f denotes a certain factor of augmen
 tation of the lunar and luni-solar tides depending on the value of N.
    The particular tide to which H, k, f refer will in general be
 indicated by a subscript small letter, the           same as the     letter constitut

 280                               Prof. G. H. Darwin.                        [June 19,
 ing the initial of the tide.               Thus, for example, the M2 tide is ex
 pressed by
                        fmH„coe(2t+2(A-.0-2(«-f)-««).
     I    have allowed a departure from this notation in the case of
 the     tides K2 and Kj, where I write H", «c", f" for the first, and
 H',    k',  f   for the second.        The angles 2»" and v' (which, like v and
 f, are functions of N)          are also involved in the arguments* (or angle
 under the cosine in the expression for the height of the particular
 tide) of these two tides.
    It is obviously necessary to suppose the reader to have some
 acquaintance with the harmonic notation, or it would be necessary to
 repeat the Report on Tides above referred to.
      § 3. The General Method            of Treating H. and L. W.       Observations.
    Noon of the day on which the observations begin is to be taken as
 the epoch, and the mean solar time elapsed since epoch is noted by t.
  V with the proper subscript letter denotes the increase of argu
 ment since epoch; for example, Vn = 2(7— a)t.
    Then the height of the water h, estimated from mean sea-level, is
 expressed by a number of terms of the form A cos V+Bsin V, or, in
 an alternative form, R cos (V—
    In order to explain the principle of the method proposed, let ns
 take two typical terms involving Vf and Vq, and let the rates of
 increase of        Vp be  p, and of     Vq be q.
    Then       we have
                  h — Ap cos Vp + Bp sin       Vf+Aq    cos Vq + Bq sin Vq            (1).
     Since      at H. or     L.W.     h is a maximum        or  a minimum,      we must
 have —
                0  = Ap sin Vp— Bp       cos Vp + ^A, sin Vq—^Bq cosVq                (2).
 Let    us   write                           q _,                                      ,„>.
    Then multiply (1) by               cos  Vp and    (2) by sin Vp, and add ; and
again multiply (1) by siu             Vp  and (2) by cos Vp, and subtract, and we
have —
                                                                            '
             h cos Vp  =    Ap + Aq (cos Vp cos Vq + kq sin     Vf sin Vq)
                               +Bq (cos Vf sin Vq—kq sin VP cos Vq),
                                                                                      (4).
             h sin  Vp =  Bp + A j   (sin Vp cos  Vq—   hq cos Vp sin Vq)
                              + Bt (sin Vf sin    Vq  + kq cos Vf cos Vq)  .„
   *   It  is well to explain that  I  haye sometimes  elsewhere used argument to denote
the argument according to the equilibrium theory, that is to say, with k equal to
zero.                     I
          In this paper call the latter the equilibrium argument.

 18(.H).]         Harmonic Analysis of Tidal Observations.                             281
 Let
      2=    i  cos ( V, —   V,) + \ cos ( V, + V,) =          cos Vf  cos  V,"
     A =    | cos   (V,— Vq)      —
                                    £ cos  (7,+ F,) =         sin Vf sin   7„
                                                                                        (5).
      «r =   1 sin ( Vt— Vt) + £ sin ( F, +         7f) =    sin V, cos 7,,
      «  =  isin(F,-F„)-^sin (F, + F4) =-cos                      Fpsin
Also let
                      F=         2 + fr,A.            f = a+L;
                                                                                       (6).
                      Q=—£—kqo,                      g = A + k,t42.J
Then our eqnations
                           h cos   F, = AtJ„ + FJ,F J, + GBV
                                                         GB„|
                           h sin F,
    A similar pair of equations will resnlt from, each H. and L.W.
When a series of tides is considered, we may take the mean of the
equations and substitute a mean F, G, f, g.
    The general principle here adopted is to take the means over such
periods that the mean F, G, f, g become very small.                            In fact, we
shall, in several cases, be able to reduce them so far that these terms
are negligible, and get simply
                                        ^-jSfe^         Vf =    ^;     but in other cases,
where what is typified as the p tide is a small one, whilst one or more
of the tides typified as q is large, it will be necessary to find F, G, f, g.
The finding of these coefficients is clearly reducible to the finding of
the mean values of           C?8   (Vp+
                                   v p— F») H' .
                              sin
   Another useful principle may be illustrated thus : if the q tide does
not differ much in speed from the p tide, we may put Vq = Vf + vt,
where v is a small speed.             Then we write
                   h = E,cos(F?—           £p) + R, cos   (Vf + »t— f,)
                     =    cos  Vf { Bp cos rp + Bq cos (vt — £j)     }
                      + sin    Vp{ Bp  sin £P—Bq sin (vt— f?)       }.
   If we neglect vlp, the condition for maximum                         and minimum      in
conjunction with this gives
                       h cos Vf     = Bp cos     £p                f
                                                    + Bq cos (vt — ?) ,
                       ft sin  Vq   = Bp sin %p—      EjSin (vt —
   VOI..  XLV1I1.                                                                X

282                        Prof. G. H. Darwin.                       [June   19,
   Then taking the mean of these equations over a period begin-
ning with t — 0 and ending when t = v\v, we have (writing
Af = Kf cos f?, Bp = Rj, sin £,)
                   ^j-2Acos V, =      Ap +  \Bf  cos  («—£,),
                   ^-ySAsin
                                   =  B,-\B, Bin («-?,),
•where X and     a  are certain   constants,    depending     on the snm of a
trigonometrical series.
   Again, if we take means from t      =  tt\v to t = 2*1*, the second terms
have their signs changed.
   Hence the difference between these two successive sums will give
 \Rq cos {%— f?) and \Bq sin (» —          There will be usually two terms
such as those typified by q, and we shall then have to take two other
means, viz., one beginning at v\2v and ending at 3t/2v, and the other
beginning at 3*-/2i> and ending at hv\2v. From the difference of
these sums we get —       \Bt  sin  («—  fj) and     \Bt  cos  («—        From
these four equations the two i??'s and the two ff's are found.              The
solution is a little complicated in reality by the fact that it is not
possible to take t = 0 exactly at, the beginning of the series, because
the first tide does not occur exactly at noon, but this is a detail which
will become clear below.
                                              f
   When all the A'b and B's or B'a and 's have been found, the posi
tion of the sun and moon at the epoch, found from the Nautical
Almanac, and certain constants found from the Auxiliary Tables in
Baird's ' Manual of Tidal Observations,'* are required to complete
the evaluation of the H's and «r's.
   The details of the processes will become clear when we consider
the various tides.
   It may be worth mentioning that I have almost completely
evaluated the F's and G's, which give the perturbation of one tide
on another, in the case considered in the Appendix. Without giving
any of the details of the laborious arithmetic involved, it may suffice
to say that the conclusion fully justifies the omission of all those
terms, which are neglected in the computation                     as presented
below.
                          § 4. The tides   N and L.
   These are the two lunar elliptic tides.
   For the sake of brevity all the tides excepting               M3, N,  L   are
omitted from the analytical expressions.
   Since         VM=   Vm-(*-w)t,         Vi =   F.+ (*-«•)<,
                    *
                      Taylor and Francis, Fleet Street, 1886.

1890.]                 Harmonic Analysis of Tidal Observations.                                                             283
the expression becomes
              h=      AmcosVm + Bm sin                      Vm   + R„ cos [ Vm— (o—w)t — „]                  f
                                                                 +.Bf cos [Vm+(a—
                = ooaTm{Am+RmcoB[(<r-*r)t+Zn]+R,co6[(o-v)t-Sl]}
                + sinVm{Bm + BMsm[(a—ar)t +                                       yH]-B,Bm[(a-w)t-^i]}.
  Hence, taking into account the equation which expresses that, h in
a maximum or minimum, and neglecting the variation of s — p com
pared with that of                   Vm,     we have —
h cos Vm       = AM + Rnco*                [0— »•)* + £,]+£;                  cos [(<r-        «•)*-£/],!
                                                                                                                 L...       (8).
h sin FM      =   B. + fi. sin [(a -w)t +                               11,   sin     [(»—»)<-&]             J
  The mean interval between each tide and the next is 6-210 hours.
Then if e be the increment of s — p in that period (so that with a — w
equal to 0o,54437 per hour, e is equal to 3C,3807), and if a, b be the
values of(er — v)t + ^H and —
                              v)t — at the time of the first tide under
                                                  (<r              £7
consideration, the equations corresponding to the          l),h tide are                         (r      +
approximately              —
                      ft   cos Vm        =   Am    +     lin cos   (a
                                                                   +        re)   +   Ei cos   (fc   +re),~|
                                                                                                             }....          (9).
                      hHin V„ = Bm                 +     RH sin    (a
                                                                   +        re)—Ri siu (b+re)            J
     If     we take the mean of n                       +  1   successive tides, the two latter terms
                            w will
                                                                             8111
on the right
         6   of (9)                          bo   multiplied
                                                       *     by         1           ^[n'^^\e         and the      r    in the
                                                                             (n   +   1)   smle'
arguments    a re, b+re, will bo equal to |n.
                       +                          If the        S)"1 tide
                                                                                                             (n
                                                                                                             +
falls exactly a semi-lunar-anomalistic   period later than the first,
(n + l)e = ir. On account of the incommensurability      of the angular
velocity a— w this condition cannot be rigorously satisfied, but      the                                              if
whole series of observations be broken up into such semi-periods,
then on the average of many such summations                                                 it   may be taken as
true.
     Then, since           \e   is   a   small angle,
                   (n  +    1)   sin       £e   =       ^v, and sin         £(n+l)e =            1
                                                                                                 ;
hence the factor                is   2/ir.
     Again     fate    = \ir         — £e; thus,            if     n+   1   is    the mean number of tides
in   a semi-anomalistic                  period, our mean equations are —
                            Vm~A"} =
                                                        — B»'sin
•2(71   +   1)^       008                                           (a— i.e) —Ri sin (b—$e),                 j
                                                                                                                  \-    (10),
                            Vm-B„} =                      R„cos (a— £e)—               22/cos (J>— £e),
^-^{2ftsin
                                                                                                             x''2

2*4                                       Prot. G. H. Darwin.                                        [June 1°,
where the summations    2 are carried out over the first semi-lunar-
auomalistic period, which   may be designated as 1.
   In applying these equations to the next semi-period 2, the result
is got by writing a + (» + l)e or a + ir for a, and fc-f ir for b.
   Thus the equations are simply the same as (10), with the signs on
the bft changed.
   The equations for semi-periods 3, 4, <&c, will be all identical on the
right, with alternately + and — signs on the left.
   Let the observations run over to semi-lunar-anomalistic       periods ;
then double the equations appertaining to periods 2, 3, . . . (m— I),
and add all the m equations together, and divide by 2(m — 1), and we
have —
                                cos Vm       =— -E„sin (a—                   JJisin     (b — ^e),l
4(»+1)(to- -yy£A
                                                                                                              (ID,
                          - ~2.li sin Vm     =    B» cos (a   —
                                                                  £e)
                                                                        —    Bi   cos ( b —     \e) ,
4(» +    l)(m-l)
where 2 now denotes summation                          of the following kind : —
{2(l)-2(2)} + {2(3)-2(2)} + {2(3)-2(4)} + {2(5)-2(4)}+Ac.,
the numbers (1), (2),                    Ac, indicating the number of the semi-lunar-
anomalistic-periods over which the partial sums are taken.
  Suppose the whole series of observations to be reduced                           covers
2m +    1   guarie-r-lunar-anomalistic                  periods, which we denote by i, ii,
iii, &c.
    First suppose thai the semi-period denoted previously by                                            1   consists
of i +   ii,
          that   consists of iii + iv, and so on.
                       2
   Let      t0                   tide of the series, and since we
                 be the time of the first
take noon of the first day as epoch,  cannot be more than      few
                                                               t0                                             a
hours.
Let     j        =s   ^e—     (a— tb)I0      =;   1°'6903—    (<r— w)t0, a            small angle.
Then                          a-&=           (<r-ir)i0 + f»-ie =              f„-j,        "1
                                                                                            >                  (12).
                              b-ie =         (»-•»•)<„-£,—        fce   =-(Cj+j).J
                                                                                                                   p
   Then denotingb the operation                                                   —   2   by S° (the mark
                                                                  l)(m-l)
                                           F                                            J         v
                                                        4(» +
indicating that the first tide                         included         is   nearly        at epoch, when
(<r— w)t
         = 0), we have from (11) and (12)
                      S"h cos       Vm   = -En sin                  +
                                                                    B,       sin      «i+j),     1
                                                                                                 >             (13).
                      S   h   sin   Vm   =       Bn cos (£,—  j)    —   Et   cos            J

1890.]          Harmonic Analysis of Tidal Observations.                                               28.5
   Secondly, supnose the semi-lunar-anomalistic         period indicated by
1 consists of ii + iii, that 2 consists of iv + v, and so on.
   Obviously the result is got by writing t0 + ^7rl(a — vr) for
or, what amonnts to the same thing, by putting — ^tt in place of              j                            j;
but we must also write S*' for S°, so as to show that the summation
begins wheD      —
                 (<r       nearly equal to
                            ar)<
                                   is              Then —  ^ir.
                                   (r.-^-JZjeos
                        = —22, cos (£,—
              S*'AcosF« =-B«cos         /)-- I2<cos (&+/),                                1
                                                                                            >         (14)
              S*'A sin         Vt   =   —   J?, sin (£,— j)  — Bi sin        (Ji+j).    J
Hence         B« sin (£»—j) = —               S°A. cos   F»—      S*rfc sin Vm,      ~\
              J2„ cos       (r.-j) =          S°h sin    F„- S»"fc cos         F,
                                                                                        >             (15)
              Bi sin (ft +i) =                S°h cos F«— S**fc sin VM,
              Bi cos (D+j) =                — S"fc sin Vm— S**h cos            F*,
  These four equations give the four unknowns        £„, ify,   and                             f(,       _/
                                                                                                               is
equal to l°'6d —
                  (o—w)t0.
  Then   if««, «/ denote the equilibrium arguments of the tides     and                               N
L   at epoch, we have —
                       u„    = 2(fco-»0-2(».-f)-(«<>-i>.),
                        «,   =     2(i.-r)-2(«,-f)          +     («.-*>,.)   +»•,
where       «„, |?0 are the mean longitudes    of moon, sun, and lnnar
perigee  at epoch, and   v and'f are small angles, functions of the lon
gitude of the moon's node (tabulated in Baird's Manual).
   Then  if f,„ is the factor of reduction (also tabulated by Baird) for
the tides       N,      L,
                       *»    =     t»   +
                                        w»,                        «!   = £i+     «/,
                       Vf    —R*                             TI    _    R'
   In this investigation the interferences of the solar and diurnal
tides are neglected, on the assumption that they are completely
eliminated.
   The difference between a lunar pei-iod and an anomalistic period                                            is
so small that the elimination of the diurnal tides will be satisfactory,
but the effect of the solar tide will probably be sensible, unless we
have under reduction 13 qnarter-lnnar-anomalistic periods, which
only exceed semi-lunations by about 25 hours.
               6
    The evaluation of the elliptic tides N and                     L    from      a     series of obser
 vations shorter than a quarter year would be very unsatisfactory,                                        and

28*;                             Prof. G. IL Darwin.                             [June         1!>,
it w not likely that such an evaluation will be attempted. Bat if
such a case is undertaken, the solar disturbance may be found by a
plan strictly analogous to that pursued below "in the case of the
tides Kj, O, P.    The reader may be left to deduce the requisite
 formulas from the theory in § 3.
    In the case of a long series of observations, each quarter year
should be reduced independently, and the mean values of H» cos kh and
H„ sin xn should be adopted as the values of the functions ; whence H„
iind k„ are easily found.    The L tide is, of course, to be treated
similarly.
                                      § 5. The Tide M2.
  This is the principal lunar tide.
  If we take the mean of n + 1 successive tides, the equations (9) give
us approximately—
             -A-rSfc   cos Vm    =    Am,                "XT2*     sin V, =   Bm . .   . .   (16).
             n+1                                         n +1
  We here assume that in taking this mean over an exact number of
hjmi-lunations, the lunar elliptic tides, the solar tides, and the diurnal
tides are eliminated.
   With respect to the elliptic tides, this condition can only be ap
proximately satisfied, because no small number of semi-lunations is
.equal to a number of anomalistic periods, and the like is true of the
 diurnal tides. In the example given below the diurnal tides are much
larger than the elliptic tides, and I have found by actual computation
(the details of which are not, however, given) that the disturbance in
the value of the M8 tide arising from the diurnat tides is quite insen
sible, and it may be safely accepted that the same is true of the dis
turbance from the elliptic tides.
   With respect to the disturbance arising from the principal solar
tide S2, I find that it is adequately, although not completely,
fliminated by making the number »+l of tides under summation 2
cover an exact number of semi-lunations.
   If the whole series of observations be short, it would be pedantic
to attempt a close accuracy in results, and we may accept these
formula? ; if the series be long, the residual errors will be gradually
completely eliminated.
  We have then —
                       Bm cos   £"„
                                      =   Am,            ltm sin   = B*.
   If   nm   be the   equilibrium argument at epoch,               we have
                                «,n   =   2(7l0-0-2(»„-f).
Whence                          *„ =      £¦»   «».,
                                                +      and H„, =   ~-

1890.]                  Harmonic Analysis of Tidal Observations.                                                28   <
     Tlie meanings of                  h„, s0,      f, f*, have           been       explained      in the last
section.
                                        § 6. The Tides S3 and K2.
   These are the principal solar and lnni-solar semi-diurnal tides.
   If the tide S3 is in the same phase as Kj at any time, three months
later they are in opposite phases.   Hence, for a short series of obser
vations, the two tides cannot be separated, and both must be con
sidered together.                 It
                     is proposed to treat a long series of observations
as made up of a succession of short series ; hence   begin with a short                  I
series.
     For the sake of brevity all the tides excepting                                            S2 and
                                                                                                           K,    are
omitted from the analytical expressions.
Since               V" = V, + 2i)t,
                         h   = P,cos (F,                        '
                                                                    cos   (V,    +   2,<-n,
                             =    cos    V,{B,     cos £, +    B" cos      (2r,t   -£*')}
                             H-sin      F,{B,sin £,-P"sin                 (2^-f)}.
  Hence, taking into account the equation which expresses that h is
a maximum or minimum, and neglecting the variation of 2h or 2yt
compared with that of Vt, we have —
                             hcosV, = .B,cos?,+£"cos                        (2vt-g"),
                             h sin     V, = Bs sin                   sin (2ijf       —
                                                                                         £").
     The mean interval between each tide and the next is 6h,210. Then
if   g be the increment of 2/t in that period (so that with     equal to                             2»/
0J-082 per hour,     equal to 0°'510), the eqnations corresponding
                             g    is                                                                               to
the (r+l)"1 tide are approximately —
                          h      cos   V, =      22, cos   £,+B"     cos    (rg— £"),*!
                                                                                                >               (1?)-
                             A   sin V, = B, sin               B" sin (rg — £")              J
   Now, P be the cube of the ratio of the sun's parallax to its mean
           if
parallax, the expression for S?, together with its parallactic inequality
(the tides      is T,
              B. of harmonic notation),    PH, cos (2t— k,).        is
   Since   t the mean solar hour angle, 2t     the same thing as V,.       is
Hence                                       B, = PHft                =     k„
    Also  P0 be the value of
           if                                       P      at epoch, then for a period of two or
 three months we may take                            P      = P0(l+pt), where P0p        equal to   is
 dPjdt.

 288                        Prof. G. H. Darwin.                          [June
                          H"
 Again, if we pnt   7 =   rj-,  we have
                              B" = f'H" = f'-yH,.
    Also since the argument of the               tide is 2t + 2ft — 1v" — k", where
 2»" is a certain function of the longitude of the moon's node (tabu
 lated by Baird), and since t = 0, h = h„ at epoch, it follows that
                             -T = Vho—W-'"'-
    Now, when the means of the equations                  (17) are taken for n+     I
 successive tides, the latter terms become—             R" C<?S{\ng— £¦"), where
                                                     ey
                                                             Sin
                             X. =    7                                          (18).
                                        (n +  l)sin \g
 Also,  if we write
                        w =   2^-2*"      +  ^,
                       11 = P„(l-|-^y)x6b21),
                      A,=               cos  V„
                             n+1
                      B,     _1 2/isin V„
                             »+ l
 onr equations become —
                  A, = nH,co8 «i+f"X„H,            cos (ai-
                                                                               (20).
                  B, = nH, sin           f"\»H,8in (—«")•/'
                                                        1
    It may be observed that n is the mean value of P during the interval
 embraced by the n + 1 tides.
    In reducing a short series of observations we have to assume what
is usually nearly true, viz., that k" = k, and 7 = 0"272, as would be
the case in the equilibrium theory of tides.
    With this hypothesis, put      ,
                                                   "
                           Z7cos  0 = n + \„f cos         w,
                           TJ sin tj>=         X^f'sina',
from which to find U and 0.           Then
                            A, =     11,17 cos  (k,— 0),
                            B, = H.tfsin (*,— 0),
from which to find    H, and    ks.
Lastly,              k" = k„      H" = 7H, =         0 272 H,.

1890.]                 Harmonic Analysis of Tidal Observations.                                                     289
    In order to minimise the disturbancedue to the lunar tide M3, we
have to make the n + 1 tides cover an exact number of semi-lunations,
namely, the same period as that involved in the evaluation of M.,.
The elimination of the M2 tide is adequate, although not so com
plete as the elimination of the effect of the                                 Sj,   tide on Mj, because M2
is nearly three times as large as S2.
    A Long Series         of   Observations.         — Suppose that there
                                                          half year of                     is   a
observations,          or two
                       periods of six  semi-lunations, each of which
periods contains exactly the same number of tides.
  Then each of these periods    to bo reduced independently with the
                                                is
assumption that    =    272 and «c, = k" .
                         7       0         If this assumption     found                                    is
subsequently to be very incorrect,      mi^ht   be          it
                                                    necessary to amend
these reductions by multiplying X„ by H"-hO'272H„ and by adding
k3—k" tooi; but such repetition will not usually be necessary.    From
these reductions we get independent values of H, cos k„ H, sin k, from
each quarter year, and the mean of these     to be adopted, from which   is
to compute H, and        It remains to evaluate H" and *".
   The factor f" and the angle 2t>" vary so slowly that the change may
be neglected from one quarter to the next, although each quarter                                                        is
supposed to have been reduced with its proper values.
  Let    and h'0 be the sun's mean longitude at the two epochs
            h0                                                                                               ;   they
will clearly differ by nearly 90°, and we put 2h'0 = 2h0 w                                               +      +   2hh.
Hence       it    is   clear that      the value             of      w    in the second quarter                         is
w   + 2&h   +    w.
  Thus the four equations, such                             as    (20), appertaining                 to the two
quarters, may be written —
                  At = IlH,co8        k,   +   — ¦f"H"cos                (<¦>—    *"),
                                               7
                  B, =   nH,    sin        — f"H" sin
                                                   •
                                                                     (<u
                                                                              —   «"),
                                                                                                 >   •••         (21),
                  a;   = n'H,cos*,-^?..f"H"co8(a>+2a;»-/c")>
                                               7
                  B/ = n'H,      sin K.+^.           f .   "H"   sin (w       +     2th- k"),
                                               7
where the accented symbols apply to the second quarter, and where
X,   Bjnj(n + l)g =
   =                0.656> con8tant.       ft
7    (n+1) sin           £y
    From     (21,),
       A,- A,'- (n-n')H, cos                    k,     = 2— .f"H"cos                  ch cos    (w
                                                                                                +        th-*"),
                                                            7
     - B,   +    B,' + (n   - n ')H, sin        k,     = 2^-     f
                                                                 .   "H"      cos oh sin       (u>
                                                                                                     +   &h- «")    .
                                                            7

                                         Prof. G. H. Darwin.                                   [June 19,
     From these two equations, H" and                                 may be computed, and since
                                                                    »¦"
II— n' is very                small,      approximate               valnes of H, cos    1 1, sine,
suffice.
                 § 7. The Diurnal Tide* K„ 0, P.
   Amongst the diurnal tides I shall only consider Kj the lnni-solar
diurnal, 0 the principal lunar diurnal, and P the principal solar
diurnal tides.
   There is the same difficulty in separating P from Kj as in the
case of K2 and S3, and therefore in a short series of observations P
and        Kj    have to be treated together.                       It    is proposed to treat a long
series of observations as made up of a succession of short series ;
hence I begin with a short series.
   For the sake of brevity all the tides excepting Klf 0, P are
omitted from the analytical expressions.
     If    \Vm denotes ('/—«)<, we have
                V   = ±Vm+at,        V0   = ±Vm-*t, Vf =                   |F.+ (#-&,)*,       and
/.   =     E coa(irm + «t-£)+R0coa(\rm—t-&)
                                                                     +R,coa QVM+ (a-2v)t-rf),
     =           \Vm{E cos (<rf-f ) + tf„cos                                           ((ff-27)*-f,)}
                     S
           cos                                                              +.R,cos
+ sin       | V„{            sin   (rf-r) +Ro          sin    (><   + £,)   -RfSm (0—2a)i— ft)}.
  Hence, taking account of the equation which expresses that h is a
maximum    or minimum, and neglecting the variation of at compared
with that of %Vm,* we have —
 hcos^V„ =               R'cos(ot—               + -Bo cos            +          Bp cos ((<r— 2i/)<—
 h .sin %Vm         = —S sin (at—         f) + B0 sin (at + So)-Rp sin ((a-2v)t-
  The mean interval between each tide and the next is (MIO.
  Then if e be the increment of », and z the increment of s—2h in
that period (so that with a equal to 0°'5490 per hour and a—                                              2ij
equal to 0°'4G69 per hour,      equal to 3°"4095 and equal to 2°-8994)
                                          e     is                                 z                      ;
and    a,if    denote the values of at—g, at £0, (a— 2ij)i—
                    b,
                    c                                             at the     +
time of the first tide under consideration, the equations corresponding
to the      l)th tide are approximately
              (r +                      —
h    cos   iVm =         B'   cos   (a
                                    +     re) +i?„cos          (6   +    re) +Bp cos (c+rz),~\
h
     sin-^Fm        = —B' sin       (o
                                     +    re)   +    B0 sin   (b+ re)— Bp sin (c+rz).         J
     If    we take the mean of            n+1 successive tides, the first pair of terms
     *
     I      have satisfied    myself by analysis,        which      I     do not reproduce,   that on taking
moans this error becomes very small.

 1890.]                         Harmonic Analysis of Tidal Observations.                                                      291
                                                   s'n
 will     be         multiplied
                          v     by
                                 3               '(n~^)l and the last term by3 the similar
                                             (n+1) sin
function with z                        in place of e ; also the r in the arguments must be
put equal to ^n.
     If
      the (n + 2),h tide falls exactly a semi-lunar period later than the
first,   + l)e = ir.
               (»t      On account of the incommensurability of the
angular velocity a, this condition cannot be rigorously satisfied, but
if the whole series of observations be broken up into such semi-
periods, then, on the average of many snch summations,                                                             it   may be
taken as true.
  Since       a small angle, (n+
                     \e   is       sin = ^jt, and sin5(n              1)            \e                              +   l)e =   1
                                                                                                                                ;
hence the first factor  equal to 2/t.         is
Again,
          i(n+l> = \(n+l)e                               .   - = fcr       .
                                                                                    '        =   76° 32'     in degrees  ;
                                                             6                      O
and (n+1) sin                     \z     =   \ir. a-~zh.
                                                    a
Therefore
Bin*(n + 1>                         2          a      . _„„ „„                                   , .„„       2
            =                                      -sin                        = — X1                    = —x
  '                                                                                 2
,
(n
     , ¦
     +    1)   sin
                          ,
                          £z        ir       a—iri
                                                        76° 32'
                                                                                 jr
                                                                                                 1436
                                                                                                              w
                                                                                                                   X,
                                                                                                                          rr
                                                                                                                        suppose.
Again                     |ne = £*--$e =                  fr- l°-7048,
                          £nz
                                  = ijr-13°-4647-l°-4497 = ijr-14"-9144.
Now let
                                                    * = a— l°-7048,                      1
                                                    ,9    =      6-    l°-7048,          ¦                                   (23),
                                                   7      =      c- 14--9144,.,
.and we have
                                                     a    +   ^we
                                                     t>   +   Jne                                                            (24).
                                                     c    +   £nz
     Thus,      ifthe mean nnmber of tides in a semi-lnnar period,
                          n   + 1   is
the means of equations (22) become
                                                                                                                  7,1
                     *"
          „.   . 2ft cos iVM = — R' sin                                    <*—      Ra sin B—       \R„ sin "
          2(n+l)
                          ,              J                                                   '           *
                                                                                                                  |
          ——-rp-S/isin                       iF„ =— R' cosa                    +    R0co8 8— XB/cos 7,
                                             "
          2(w+l)                                                                                               J
where           the           summations             are carried                 out over           the first semi-lunar
period, which may be designated as                                             1.

292                                              Prof. G. H. Darwin.                                        [June 19,
  In applying these equations to the next semi- period 2, the result is
obtained by writing a+(n+\)e for a, 6 + (n + l)e for b, and
c+(n + l)z for c; that is to say, o + «- for a, b + r for I, and
f + 153°-0706 or  + tt- 26°-9294 for e.
                                c
  If, therefore, we put e = 26"-9294, we obtain the result from (25)
by changing the signs on the left and writing 7 — « for 7.
  The equations for semi-periods 3, 4, 5, <fcc, will be alternately ¦+-
and — on the left, and identical as regards the terms in % and         but                                             /},
with 7— 2e, 7— 3<j, 7— 4e, <fcc, successively in place of 7.
  Let the observations run over m semi-lunar periods then double                                   ;
the equations appertaining to periods         . . . (to— 1), add all the m
                                                                           2,
                                                                           3
equations together,  and divide   by 2(m— 1).
   The terms in Rf will involve the series
       sin          . n   sin ,          \       ,   o sin          on,            Bin
                                                                                    ,       ri\ 1                  \
                                                                               ---+cos(''-(m-1»-
                                                             r
                                                                           +
       cos^-t-2coS("/-£)+2cos^-26>
     This    is   equal to
                                    0sin \(m.—             l)t6i
                                                                 cos
                                                                       v
                                                                       '       2V       ' '
                                             tan^e
     Then      if   we    put
                               ft   =                                  where    \       = 11436,
                                         (to—         1)   tanfe
oar eqnatious (25) become
     — prvT               tt2'4 cos
77                  —
        l)(m
                                         *
4(n    +                  1)
                     =    — 22'     sin*— R0smfS—                   /iR^ sin (7—         \{m— l)e),
                                                                                                            )>..    ¦    (26),
                           r2fcsin±FM
4(«.   +   1)(to-1)
                     =     — R' cob          *   +   R„ cos (}—pIip cos (7—i(*»— 1)«)»J
where       2 now denotes summation of the following kind —                                        :
                 {2(l)-2(2)}                 +       {2(3)-2(2)}           +    {2(3)-2(4)}         +    . .   .
     Suppose              series of observations to be reduced covers
                      the whole
exactly 2m      j«ar<er-lunar periods, which we denote by
                     +    1                                    II,    &c.                              I,          III,
   First suppose that the semi-period denoted previously by consists                                           1
of
 I     II, that consists of
       +                   2       IV, and so on.         III   +
   Let    denote the time of the first tide of the seiies, and since noon
            t0
of the first day               is   epoch,           t0   cannot be more than a few hours.
     Let                  i     = \e— at0 = l°7048-«rt,
                                                   — oto,              3                            ")
                                                                                                       >                 (27),
and                             —        — (a—2rf)t,                   l°-4497-(ff-2,)^;J
                           k            \z
i   and    k   are clearly small augles.

1800.]                 Harmonic Analysis                        of Tidal            Observations.                            293
     Since     e   =   26°-9294,           £t + l°-4497 = 14°-9144                      ;   and from (23)
                       <,=      <rf9-r-l°-7048 =                  -(r+0,                                  1
                       /3
                            =   «rta+   f.-l°-7048=                     (r.-t),                                             (28).
                                or-s^-^-i^i-i* =-r,-*-Ki
                                                                                                            I
                       7    =
     Ifthe same notation be adopted as that explained in § 4 (the only-
difference being that we now deal with quarter-lunar instead of
quarter-anomalistic                   periods),           we have
H°h       cos£F„ = B' sin (if + O                     -Bo    sin (f0—         i) + fiBf sin          (£p + k + ±me),
S°h8m±VM               =    -B' cos(£'+i)+Bacoa(£0—                                 i)— /iBy        cos (£p +      k+ime),
                                                                                                                   ..   .   (29).
     Secondly,          suppose the semi-lunar                         period indicated by 1 consists of
II   +      III,   that    2 consists of IV +                         V, and  so on.   Then, obviously,
the l-esult is got by writing to + ^l" for t0; that is to say, write i— A»-
for i and k — \(o — 1i\)Tr\e, or A— \ir+r)irja for k. But iyw:a is equal to
A-e, and we write k— \tt        for k. Therefore, following the notation
used in §4 for              N and L,
Si'h       cos ±Vm      =       -B' cos        (X + i)      -   B„ cos(£„-*)            1
                                                                -/lEpCos (fp+i+^m + l)^, I
SWtsin         I VM     — —It' sin (£'+»') — fi„ sin                        (£,-»')
                                                                —             sin
                                                                      /«-Rp         (fr + fc +£(>»+ 1>X
  These four S's require correction for the disturbance due to the
semi-diurnal terms M2 and S3, and I shall return to this point later.
In the meantime write
     W         = S°h        lin       V"   +   COrr-                          = SUh          Til          +     COrr-
     X     }
                                  ^                                   Z }
                                                                                                *    V~                     <31>'
and we have —
£(   W     +   Z) =
                       -    Bo sin    (f
                                      „
                                             - -0         «/?,, sin    ±e   cos   (&    +   &   +   i(2nl   +    1»<    }
                                                                                                                        >   (32),
A(X-Y)             =        R0cos(S0-i)-tiBf sin                       £«   sin (£,+A:+i(2m + 1»
                                                                                               •)J
|(W-Z)             =        E'sin(f'        +   t')   +^cosi6sin                  (£r   +   k   +   l(2m +       l)e),\
                                                                                                                            (33).
                   = -B' cos
                                                                                                                        V
i(X+T)                                 (f'   +   1)   -,uBp     cos iecos (£p           +    k+ \{2m        +    1».
                                                                                                                   J
     If    we put                 L= {i(X Y)           +        +     B'cos(?' + i)}tauie,
                                                                                                                            (34),
                                  M= {^(W-Z)-E'sin(f'                                +      t)}tani£,

294                                        Prof. G. H. Darwin.                                                       [June      10,
the equations (33) may be written —
                                   i(W + Z)-L=-2?,08in (r.-t),
                                                                                                                              (35).
                                   J(X-Y)+M=                             _R0cos(£,-i).
   The four equations (32), (33) involve six unknown quantities,
R',     R„, f0, Rp, gp, and are insufficient for their determination.
      £*,
   In reducing     short series of observations
                           a                           necessary to assume               it   is
what    is usually nearly true, viz., that kp =       and Hf/ET =       3309,             «•',                           0
as would be the case in    the equilibrium theory   of  tides.
   Then, writing     for 0'3309, we have approximately
                               q                                 = ~SP = qH.'.                               Rp
The argument of the Kt tide            t+(h *')—  —     —    is where        a                ir                         v'    is
certain function of the longitude of the moon's node (tabulated by
                                                 t—         —
Baird) and the argument of the            tide                   P
                                                                                t is
            ;                                                  kp.                        0, h
   At the noon which         taken as epoch
                                         is       =       —
                                                             h0, and the two              h +
arguments are equal to —                       £'    and —          £/>.
Hence                                    —         =         ho— v —          \ir—
                                         —   Jj,   =   —     fc„ +   |jr—      Kj.
Therefore                           £p   =   g  +    2h0— v —             w+(Kp-K').
Pntting         KP
                     =   k   as explained above,
                                   Zt+k =            ?+i+2ho-r'-*-+l,
where                I   =   k-i =       [l°-450-(<r-2i/)<o]-[lo-705-<xq,
                                   = -0°-2bh                 +   2nt0,   a     small angle                                    (36).
Then,   if                                 = 2ho-v'+l+{(2m                           +
                                                                                          l)e,]
                                       0
                                                                                                                              (37),
                                    Pm
                                           =   ?/» COS i_<?,
                                                                                          j
we have
                 i(W-Z)            =       f'H'sin(C + t)-/,1BH'8in(r                                    +
                                                                                                         ••  i+»),
                                                                                                              +»).
                                       - f'H'
                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                              (38).
                 i(X     +   Y )   =               cos       (f    +     »)   +PmW cos             (£'   +¦i+0).J"
                                                                                                          1
                                                                                          "
Let                                      T     cos     ijr   =
                                                             f'     — pm cos           ,0
                                                                                     "]
                                         T     sin     yff   =                 sin 0.J
                                                                                     l
whence      T        and       may bo computed                     ;     and
                               i(W-Z)=                       H'Tsintt'               +   i--^
                                                                                                                              (40).
                               i(X T)  +           = -HT              cos      (t t'-f).
                                                                                  +
  From          these we compute                H'      and      f'    and £*+<U+2666>.

1890.]             Harmonic Analysis                  of lidal             Observations.                     295
     Then     if   u   = h0—v'—^ir, the                    equilibrium               argument      at epoch
of   K„
                                             «'   =   £' + «'.
     We   have also        = qB.' = 0 3309 H',                  — k'. kp
     Returning to equations (34)                      and (35), we compute                       .B'   = f'H',
and hence R' c?s ({"'+{),
             sin vi    " and then                          L    and M.
  Having these, we compute R„ and f„ from (35).
  Then, if u0 = h0— v— 2(s0— f) -\-\tt, the equilibrium argument at
epoch of O,
                               k0   =       +         and R„ =              —,
                                                                            to
where f0 is a certain function of the longitude of the moon's node,
tabulated in Baird's Manual.
  A Long Series of Observations. — Suppose that there is a half year of
observation, or two periods of thirteen quarter-lunar periods, each of
which contains exactly the same number of tides.
  Then each of these periods is to be reduced independently with
the assumption that q = 0'3309 and kp = k . If this assumption bo
found subsequently to be very incorrect, it might be necessary to
amend these reductions by adding kp—k to the value of 0, and by
multiplying />„ by Hp -f- 0'3309 H', but such repetition will not
usually be necessary.
   From these reductions we get independent values of H'cosk',
H' sin k, H,, cos *„, Ho sin <0 from each quarter year, and the means
of these are to be adopted from which to compute                                      H', k, H0,       k0.
   It remains to evaluate Hp and kp.
   The factor          f
                 and the angle                    v   vary      so slowly that the change from
 one quarter to the next may     be neglected, although each quarter is
 supposed to have been reduced with its proper values.
   Let h0, h'0 be the values of the sun's mean longitude at the two
 epochs ; then since the second epoch is nearly a quarter year later
 than the first, h'0 will exceed h0 by about 90°.
   Let h'o = h0+^7r + Sh, so that hh is small.
   If +         ?n + *?f be the values of         at the second epoch, we
                                                                f',    £p
 have    + S?'
        f'     =—    h',+v' +$r+*',     =—  b0+       £"     and therefore  v'   +
 it   = — \Tr—Zh.
     Again,        +       =   b'0—     frr+Kf,            %t
                                                                =   h0— ^tt      +   kp,   and     therefore
      Let i+Bi,    Sk be the values of
                   k
                   +                       and    corresponding to the
                                                               i             h
 second  epoch,  and let W, X', Y', Z' be the values of those quantities
 in the second quarter.   Then, replacing %(2m+V)c by 87°'5, since
 that   its value when 2m
        is                       13, we have from (33)
                                        +1   is

2%                                                 Prof. G. H. Darwin.                                                    [June        19,
|(W'-Z')                 =   -#cos tf+i+K—ih)
                                                                +/iBf   cos           cos (g,,+fc+«fc+3fc+87°-5),
 4(X'+Y') = -B'                         sin    (f +t+«-«fc)
                                                                +nJ?,cos^esin (fp + i- + ^ + «A+870-5),
KW-Z)                    =     JJ'sin          (f +       i')           cos       ±e   sin (£, +           ft   87°-5),
                                                                                                                +
-i(X      +    Y)        =   -R,coa(?               +   i)      -^cosiecos (f>+i + 87°-5).
Hence
l(W'-Z')-Kx                        +    Y) =            B' sin i(at-«A) sin                         (f +i+i(3t-eA))"
               +         Jfp cos    }e   cos
                                          J        (ifc   +     Sh) cos (£> +         Jfc   + |(«fc-r £/i) + 87°-5),
                                                                                                                                    (41).
|(W-Z)               +    J(X' Y)  +           =    -B' sin i(ai-a)                     cos         (£'   +i+$(&i-&h))
                                                                                                                                j
               +    ;<i?, cos       ±e   cos |(«A: + Bh) sin                (f,   +A;   +         ±(Sk    +   Sh)   +   87°-5).J
     In
      these equations B'    eqnal to f'H' and Bp   isequal to H^,.                                   is
   The terms involving B' are clearly small, and approximate values of
B' and      as derived from the first quarter, will be sufficient to com
pute them. Afterwards we can compute Rp or Hp and                  then                                                  £p
                                                                                                                         ;             if
    denotes  — h0+$ir, the equilibrium argument of            at the  first                                     P
hp
epoch, kp  =  fP+Up.
   The values of Hp, xf thus deduced ought not to differ very largely
from those assumed in the two independent reductions.
   The same investigation serves for the evaluation of the  tide from                                               P
any two sets of observations, each consisting of thirteen quarter-lunwr
periods, and with a small change in the analysis we need not snppose
each to consist of thirteen such periods.   But the two epochs must be
snch that sin Sh     small and cos hh
                                   is     large, or the formula, although
                                                                        is
analytically correct, will fail in their object.
                §    8.   — The Disturbance of                       ~KX,
                                                                             0,   P     due to M3 and S2.
     It   has been remarked in that the diurnal tides are perturbed
                                                           §    7
by the semi-diurnal. The general method has been given in         by                                                          §   3,
which to calculate the effect on any one tide, whose increment of
argument since epoch       and speed   p, due to tide whose incre
                                               is    Vr                       is                           a
ment is             Vq   and speed            q.
   Since in the present instance all the diurnal tides have been
consolidated into one of speed — a, we have to calculate the effect
                                                                 7
of the tides whose speeds are 2(7—       and 2(7—1;) on the tide whose  a)
speed      —
           isa. 7It follows, therefore, that the factor qjp or   of (3)                                                    kt
is in the first case equal to 2(7— a)l(y   —    or   and in the second                      <?)       2,
case    2(7-i,)/(7-<r) or 070 or km =
          is                                     = 070.
                                                    2           ;                  2,         It,         2

1890.]                Harmonic Analysis of Tidal Observations.                          297
    The coefficients F, G, f, g,           as due to the tide M2 of speed 2(-/— <r),
will      be written with suffix m, and as due to the tide S3 of speed
2(7 — r/), with suffix 8. The sums and means have also to be taken
in the two ways denoted by S° and Si". Hence we have altogether
to compute sixteen coefficients, which by an easily intelligible nota
tion may be written ¥J°>, G„<0>, . . . f,(*»), g,(W.
     In order to compute the sixteen coefficients, it is necessary to find
the raeancosines and sines of the four following angles, viz. : —
                     ^Vx±V3, and the means have to be taken in the two
ways denoted S° and S*"'.
     These means are exactly the same in form as what the means of
 h cob     and    h sin (which    had        to be evaluated        in S° and S*") would
 be   if all the heights were regarded                   as  positive unity, irrespective
 of whether they are H.W. or L.W.                         Hence the same plan of com
 putation        serves   here   as     elsewhere      ;   the plan is explained in the
 following section.
      By comparison of equation (7) and the definitions (31) of W, X,
 Y, Z in the last section, we have : —
 W = S°hcoS$Vm            -{AmFm<°)         +BmQJ*          +A,Y,i» + B,G.to},
   X = S°fcsiniF„, -{AJmW                   +BmgJ»>         +A.U") +B,g/°)},
                                                                                       (42).
   Y=       Si"7lcos^F„-{^„F„(W+J?MGM(i")-r^1F,(W+P,G,ti'>},
    Z   = Si"hSm±Vm-{AJJM + BmgJi') +A1f,(l')+B,g,«')}.
      The four quantities Am,           Bm,     A,, B, are known        from    the evalua
  tions of the tides M3 and             S2   ;  whence the corrections        referred to in
  § 7    are calculable.
                                § 9. On the Summations.
      It    will   be seen  from the preceding                sections that sums have to
   be   found of the following functions : —
                              cos   T7-     t. cos T7-      cos
                                         '                            '
                              sin              sin          sin 2
   and also of
                          cosir         cos3F          cos,LV,v.
                                                             « Vm± V,)'
                          sinaK"" sin*K""              sin                  *
       It  is necessary to calculate the five angles ^Ym, Vt, \ V„+V„ and
    Vm, for each tide, and the reader will easily see, by the example in
   the Appendix, how they may be computed with considerable rapidity,
    by aid of an auxiliary table A.
       The computation of sines and cosines and multiplication by heights,
    may, with sufficient accuracy, be abridged, by regarding the cosine or
         VOL. SLV11I.                                                                Y

  298                         Prof. G. H. Darwin.                     [June   19,
  sine of any angle lying within a given 5° of the circumference as
  equal to the cosine or sine of the middle of that 5°.
      The process then consists in the grouping of the heights according
  to the values of their Vs (Vm, V„ £FM, as the case may be).                The
  heights in each group are then summed.           Since the L.W. heights are
  all negative, they   are  treated  in  a separate table, and are considered
  as positive    until their combination with the H.W. at a later stage.
   We shall, for the present, only speak of one of these groupings,
  taking it as a type of both.
                             = — gjn
      Since
             ^   (a + 180°)            a, the  eighteen   groups   forming    the
, 3rd   quadrant may be thrown in with the 1" quadrant by a mere
   change of sign ; and the like is true of the 4th and 2nd quadrants.
      Since cos (180°— a) = — cos » and sin (180°— «) = sin a, it follows
  that we have to go through the 2nd quadrant in reversed order, in
  order to fall in with the succession which holds in the 1st quadrant,
   and, moreover, the cosine changes its sign, whilst the sine does not
   do so.   Hence the following schemes will give us the eighteen groups
   which all have the same cosines and sines : —
  for cosines
                          (l»t_3rd)_(2nd_4th) reversed,
   for sines
                          (ist_3rf) + (2"i-4tb) reversed.
      Thus,  one  grouping of the heights serves for both cosines and sines,
   and, save   for the last step, the additions are the same.
      The combination of the H.W. and L.W. results is best made at             the
   stage where l6t— 3rd and 2nd— 4th have been formed.
      The negative signs for the L.W. results are introduced before
   addition to the H.W. results, and total 1"— 3rd and 2nd— 4th are thus
   formed.
      After the eighteen cosine and sine total numbers are thus formed,
   they are to be multiplied by the cosines or sines of 2° 30',   7° 30', 12° 30',
   .... 87°   30'.   The products are then summed       so as to give 2/t °?8
       It was noted at the beginning of this section that we also have
    sums of the form 2            These sums are obviously made by entering
    unity in place of each height, and, of course, not treating the L.W. as
    negative. Thus, where the H.W. and L.W. are combined it is not neces
    sary to change the sign of the L.W., as was done in the combination of
    H.W. and L.W. for 2/i            These summations      are considerably   less
    laborious than the others.
       In the case  of the tides M, and    S0, the division  of the sums 2/i   c<?s

.1890.]               Harmonic Analysis of Tidal Observations.                                                299
by the total number of entries gives the required results.   But for
N, L, and similarly for the diurnal tides Kj, O, P, the grouping and
summations   have to be broken into a number of subordinate periods,
which are to be operated on to form S° and           The multiplication
by the eighteen mean  cosines and sines is best deferred to a late stage
in the computation.
    Thus, for example, for N and L, the quarter-lunar-anomalistic
periods, i,       iii, &c, are treated independently, and we find
                      ii,
(1st— 3rd)   (2nd— 4th reversed) for each.
                  +                         There are thus eighteen
cosine numbers and eighteen sine    numbers for each of      iii, &c.                      i,   ii,
    We next form the sums two and two, +         iii iv, Ac. next find
                                                                     i     ii,        +           ;
the differences          — (iii+iv),
                             (i +    (v+vi)
                                     ii)    — (iii+iv),  &c; add the
differences together    then multiply by the eighteen cosines or sines
                                  ;
of    21°,   7i°, &c, and finally multiply by                         .    ,   ,                  and so find
S°fc°?8.
     sin
     We next go through exactly the                           same   process, but beginning with
ii   instead of       i,   and so find       SWi °?s.
                                                    sin
     The     same      process applies, mutatis                  mutandis,         for finding S°             and!
S»-c?8
    sin'
     There                 which merit attention in particular. The
                  are two cases
sorting of heights in quarter-lunar-anomalistic periods, according to
values of Vm, serves, in the first instance, for the evaluation of N and
L, but serves, secondly, to evaluate M2, for we then simply neglect
             it
the subdivision into quarter periods and troat the whole as one series,
but stop at the end of a semi-lunation.
   The sorting of heights in quarter-lunar periods, according to the
values of     \    Vm,      also serves several purposes.
     We first find from                    S° and                          and secondly, by merely
                                                    SWi^
                                     it                         \    Vm,
counting the entries in each group for each quarter period, instead of
adding up the heights, we arrive at S° and Si* cos ^Vm-    (It may be
noted in passing that what    wanted, according to preceding analysis,
                                              is
is   the sum of        f?f (%Vm—Vm),               so that there         will    be   a   change of sign in
the sine sum to get the desired result.)
     But, besides           these,    S° and S»*          .
                                                               (\Vm+       Vm) can be obtained                with
sufficient accuracy from the same sorting.
   The angles ^Vm were sorted in four times eighteen groups, for each
quarter-lunar period. If each angle were multiplied by three, the
eighteen entries of the lrt quadrant would be converted into three
gronps of six, lying in three quadrants, viz., Ist, IInd, IIIrd; the
                                                                                                      y   2

300                             Prof. G. H. Darwin.                        [June 19,
2nd    quadrant is changed to IVth, I", IInd; the 3rd to III"1,                 TV*
I** ;  and the 4th to II"4, III"1, IVth. Hence eighteen entries of                3"*
are converted      into three sixes, Irt— III*1, IInd— IVth, —{Ist— IIIrd};
and eighteen entries of 2nd— 4th are converted into three sixes,
 -{IInd- IV"'},             III«», II^-IV*.
    Hence a new I*'— IIIrd of six entries is made np thus: —
                          first six of former        1"* — 3rd
                       + second six of former 2nd— 4"1
                       —  third six of former        1*—    3rd.
    And    a new II™1 —    IVth of six entries is made np of
                       — first six of former         2«J—    4'»
                       -f second six of former l*— 3rd
                       + third six of former         2nd— 4th.
    These Ist — IIIrd and IIttl—        IV,h may now       be treated just like the
 other ones.      Thus, without calculating -* Vm, we have from the former
 1st— 3rd and 2™1 — 4th the results of a fresh grouping according to
 values of %V„.
    It is true that there is a considerable loss of accuracy, because all
 angles within 15° are now treated as having the same sine and
 cosine.
         § 10. Mules  for    the Partition of the Observations into Groups.
    It  appears from the preceding investigations that it is required to
 divide up the observations into groups.              Thi6 may be done, with all
 necessary accuracy, and with great convenience, by dividing the tides
 just   as they  would      be divided    if every  H.W. followed L.W., and      trice
 versa, at the mean      interval of 6b '2103.
      Now a    quarter-lunar-anomalistic period           is 165h'3272, a quarter-
 lunar period is      lC3h9295,      and    semi-lunation      is 354b'3670.  Hence,
  dividing these numbers by 6h 2103, we find that there aro 26-62145
 tides in a quarter- anomalistic period, 26-3S)64 in a quarter period, and
  57'0612 in a semi-lunation.
      Tt may be remarked in passing that these results show that the
 n + 1 of (10), § 4, is 53-243, and the n + 1 of (25), § 7, is 52793.
      It is, of course, impossible to have a fractional number of tides,
  and, therefore, we make a small multiplication table of these numbers,
 and take the nearest integer in each case.               For example, in the case
 of the semi-lunations,         we have —
                1.   57-0612        57.            4. 228-2448       228.
                2. 1141224         114.            5. 285-3060       285.
                3.  17M836         171.            6. 342 3672       342.

1830.]             Harmonic Analysis      of Tidal    Observations.                  301
  These have to     divided betweeu H. and L.W. For the 6ake of
                      be
convenience,       I suppose
                        that we always begin the series with a H.W.,
then when the integer is odd we pnt in one more H.W. than L.W.,
and thus have the following role : —
                                                                                   <">
 No. of semi-lunation . .          1      2      3          4          5
 No. of last H.W. in the
                                  29      57     86        114        143         171
 No. of last L.W. in the
                                   28     57     85        114        142         171
   The H.W. and L.W. are here supposed to be numbered consecu
tively from onwards in separate tables.
               1
   The other rules of partition given in Appendix are found in the
                                                                E
same way.
                            §    11. On the Over Tides.
  Observations of H. and L.W. are very inappropriate for the deter
mination of these tides (of which the most important are M4, MP),
S4,   Sj), because they express the departure of the wave from              the simple
harmonic shape, and we are supposed to have no information as to
what occurs between two tides. These tides make the interval from
H. to L.W. longer than from L. to H.W., and there             no doubt that,
                                                                 is
assuming  the  existence  in  the  expression   for   of
                                                       h a term  of the form
AM,cos2FK      Bt„sin2F'„, we shall get an approximation to Aj,» and
               +
B2M by finding the mean of Acos2F« and h«m2Vm.                 But the com
putation of the     G,
                     F,  g,f,coefficients for the perturbation of M4 by M3
would be essential, and thus the amount of additional computation
would be very great, whereas in the analysis of continuous observa
tion the overtides are found almost without any additional work.                         I
am inclined to think that       would be best to obtain hourly observa
                                 it
tions for several days    at  several parts of a lunation, and by some
methods of interpolation to construct           atypical 6emi-diurnal tide-
wave, from which, by the ordinary methods of harmonic analysis, we
conld find the ratio of the heights of the over-tides to the funda
mental, and the relationship of their phases.
 I   make no attempt at such an investigation in this place.
               §    12. On the   Annual and Semi-annual Tides.
   These tides are frequently of much importance, so that they ought
 not to be neglected from a navigational poiut of view.   It    obvi         is
 ously impossible to obtain any results from a series of observations
 of less than a year's duration.
    Rules for the partition of tides into months or 12th parts of year         a
 are given in the Appendix E.     The mean of all the H. and L.W. ob
 servations for each month may be taken as the height of mean water

302                           Prof. G. H. Darwin.                        [June     19,
•at  the middle of the month, and the 12 values for the year may be
.submitted to the ordinary processes of harmonic analysis for the evalu
 ation of these two tides.
    We have supposed in the previous investigation that the tide
 heights are measured from mean sea-level, and although it is not
 necessary that this condition should be rigorously satisfied, it might
 be well, where there is a large annual tide, to refer the heights to
 different datum levels in the different quarters of the year.
                   § 13. On Gaps   in the Series    of Observations.
    It often happens in actual observations that a few tides are missing
 through some accident, or are obviously vitiated by heavy weather.
 Now the present method depends for its applicability on the evanes
 cence of terms in the averages.         It is true that it is rigorously ap
 plicable even for scattered ,observations, but if applied to such a case
all the F, G, f, g coefficients have to be calculated, and, as every tide
reacts on every other, the .computation would be so extensive as to
make the method almost impracticable. Thus, where there is a gap,
observations      must be    fabricated (of course noting that they are
fabrications) by some sort of interpolation, and even values which are
very incorrect are better than none.*                If the interpolation is ex
tensive, it might be well to test its correctness in a few places when the
reduction is done. If a whole week or fortnight be missing, and if
the computer cannot find a plausible method of interpolation,                   I can
only suggest a preliminary reduction from the continuous parts, and
the computation of a tide table for the hiatus.            Each such case must
be treated on its merits, and it is hardly possible to formulate general
rules.
                                   APPENDIX.
                    Tables and Bides of General Applicability.
                                A.    To find \Vm.
    The following table is for finding what wonld           be the mean moon's
hour-angle,      if the   moon   had   been    on   the meridian at the epoch.
This angle is denoted by              or (y—a)t, and is equal to the angle
through which the earth has turned relatively to the mean moon (at
14°'4920521 per mean solar hour) since epoch.
   • Fabricated times and heights would very likely be no worse than real observa
tions during a few days of rough weather, A perfect tide table only claims to pre
dict the tide apart from the influence of wind and atmospherio pressure; and,
conversely, tidal observations muBt be sufficiently numerous to eliminate these influ
ences by averages.

1890.]              Harmonic Analysis of Tidal Observations.                         303
    It would be advantageous to extend the table up to 90 days, but it
can be used as it is for periods greater than 30 days by the division of
the time into sets of 30 days. In the second period of 30 days 5°'7
must be subtracted from the tabular entry, for the third period 11°'4,
and so on.*
    For example:          Find $Vm for 78£a llh 23m. The day is 18\ of
the    third   30,   and  the tabular entry for 18|d llh is 113°'9, and sub-
tracting 11°4 we have 102""5; 23m gives 5°-6, so that £V„ = 108°1.
The correct result is 107°"99, and it is obvious that an error of 0°'l
may easily be incurred by the use of the table.
    The row for day — £ is given because it may be necessary to use
one tide before epoch ; this row is used in the example below.
    *  Observe    that the decimals run thus, -0, -5, "0, &c., then '4, '9, '4, ic., then
'8,  °3, '8, &c.,  and so on. The first entry in which the sequence alters        I call a
" change." The incidence of " changes " niny be found thus : y — o is 14fc — '00795 j
take Crelle's multiplication table for 795, and note where the last digit but three,
 baring been 4, becomes 5 ;     I say that this is a " change." For example, 559 x 795
  - 444405, and 560 x 795 = 445200 ; then a change occurs at the 660lh hour, or at
 the (12 x 46 + S)" hour, or at 23" 8b. If the table be continued to 60 and 90 days,
 &c., by subtracting 5,7, 11°'4, &c, the changes will fall a little wrong, but they may
easily be corrected by means of Crelle's table, as here shown. — (Added Aug. 2, 1890.)

                                                                                                    siquj,        jo -t)   K*      jo      'At
               'mO                 •<iT           \Z                •q8              \f                    'q9                   •q9                   •q4              •q8                    \Q                   \0l                     VI
               D                   o              c                 0                                    0                       0                    0                                        O                    O
         981    I-           9-O0Z          SIZ    t-         9-6ZZ            ttz    1-            9-89Z           I-     EiZ        0-         48Z     9-      0Z06                    918 9-               0-188                      9-91-8
 0             0               g-ti          6Z                9-Et              89                  Z4     9-      0        0-48                101     f-      911 6-                  081                  ttl         6              f-691
                                                   0- 6-                                                                              6                                                                                   8-
         Eil     6-          f-881          ZOZ               t'-4lZ           IBZ                  t-9tZ                  09Z                   8-94Z           6SZ                     1-08                 818                        6-886           *8uim               o
 f1      its       8-              8-Z        91               IE               3*                   09      8               8-1-4                8-68           801                     811                  zei                        Z-itl
                4-                                 8 4-                8- Z-   Z                                                   4-                    Z-
                                                                                      0- 6- 8- 4-
         191                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9-0
                             Z-9il          001               90Z                61                 Z-t8Z
                                                                                                                    f1 f   8fZ                   89Z             44Z                     Z6Z                  908                        lies
z        SE8     9           098     I-       *        9-       61   I-         BE 9-                !•»            Z        9-Z9                 1-44             16                    9tH                  OZl                        eei      o.                     i-0
                9-                                 9-                                                                                                                                                                                                                   01
                                                                                                                                                                                                    8Z10 0
         6tl                 f9l       0-   8il               0-B61            ioz    9-            ZZZ 0-                 9-98Z                 0-19Z           99Z                     08Z                  16Z                        6-806
 8
                                                                                                                                                                         8 4- 4- 9 9 *
                                                                                                                    8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4 9- 9 * 8
         EZB       f-        6-i8S          Z98        f-           6-9         IZ        f-         6-98                    03       \-          1-9              64                     86                  801                        8-ZZl                           ZX
     T           8-                                                                                                                8-                    6- 8-
         iBl                 191 8-         991               081 8-           961 8-               8-60Z                  1-ZZ                  88Z             89Z 8-                  49Z                  Z8Z 8-                     4-963                           M
         HE                  9Z8     i      01-8
                                                       8Z     f9S    4-          6    Z-             48Z            f        88 Z-                4-Z9             49      7.             18    6- 8- 4- 9-     96                       Oil
         9Z1                 9-OEI          t9l        I-     9-891            B81                  9-iOI                  Z1Z    I              9-9ZZ           ii-z     1              9SZ                  OiZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Z1            f«Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               o-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        M 61 Z
9        oez                 9-818          8Z8               9-ZtE            i9E
                                                                                          1 0        11 9-          9        9Z    0              9-0t             99 0.                  69        9           1-8 0-                    9-86
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T 88*9946sU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          tit            o       \%
         Ell                 4Z1       t-   1H                t-991            Oil        6-        981      f.            6-601                 t-UZ            8ZZ                     BIZ                  49Z                        UZ       f-     I LL           •
9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TT             2 tr/
                Z I- 0 0 6
         98Z                 108 8-         918               OEB       8      ffS    8-            69E     8-               El 8-                8-8Z             Zf                     49 B-                 14                        B-98                          9 6 6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ox                  »¦
         001 8-              911 8-         6ZI               zm               891                  E41 Z-                 4-481                 zzoz            91Z                     1EZ                  9tz                        Z09Z                           V
f4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        bl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AT             a L-  t
                                                                                                                    \ 9 \4                                               6 8 4 9-
         WZ                  Z-68Z          BOB               1-818            ZEE                  l-4tE                        91               t-91             08                     9f                    69                        in              Tl            •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        b        T
                                                                                                                                   9-                                                                                                                     *T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                Z I- 0
                4- 9-                                                  0               49g                                                                                                                                6 8 499
          88                 1-801          411               Z81              9tl                  0-191                  941                   061 0-          toz                     61Z                  6EZ                          81 0.         L  31           o
8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OT             a a
                 9
                                                   0 684999
         Z9Z                 0-44Z          10Z               908 6-           0Z8                  »EE     6-      8      OtB       1--              6-8          81                     ZB    6-             If f-                      19     6.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          vL            n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          QT                fi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         o h-
          94                  6-06          901               6-611            »El                  8-8tl                  891 B-                8-441           Z61                     90Z        8         xzz                        9BZ 8-
f0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        III
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           fj            S l»    T
         OSZ                 8t9Z           6iZ               8E6Z             80B
                                                                                       88           4ZZ8            6      4BE Z-                198     4-         9                     0Z                    98
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          88              i-0t            ol
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        T T
                f8Z                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       QT                O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ¦>f.
                                                                                                            9-
          1-9                 84     4-      £6
                                                   f8z        4-401            ZZI    Z-            981                    1-191                 9-991           081
                                                                                                                                                                         *881
                                                                                                                                                                                         *6l                  60S     I                  ezz     9-
                                                                                                                                                                                           i9 8                                                           61             B-t
01       8EZ                 9-Z9Z          Z9Z               9-18Z            96Z                  018 9-         01      9ZE 0-                9-688           1-9B                                           8Z                        9-48            08             8-t
          Z9                                                                                                9-                     6-
                              9-99           18                9-96            Oil                  t-Zl
                                                                                                                    f \    881                   891      f-     491                     7-HX                 961                        HZ       t-      18             1-9
ll       SZZ                 f-MZ           19Z               69Z    f-        E8Z                  1--86Z         11      6-ZIB                 4ZE     8-      11-B                    9SE        8           01                        SZ     8                      9     8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ZZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                 z
                1068
          68                  19 B-          89                EES              46                  8-Z11                  9Z1 8-                m       8-      991                     Oil                  181                        061 Z-           l:z            9-9
Zl       ETZ                 Z-8ZZ          ZfZ               Z-49Z            14Z
                                                                                      1 06849       98Z Z-         Zl      i-008                 Z-9I8           6Z8                     we                   R98                          T-81           iz             8-3
                                     I                                                                                                                                                              1 0                                          0-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0 6 8 4 'J 9
81
          4Z
         10Z
               i99
                              -ft
                             0-9IZ
                                             99
                                                   1068499
                                                               14    1-
                                                                       0-
                                                                                98                  1-001
                                                                                                             0-
                                                                                                                    \      9-1-11                1-6ZI
                                                                                                                                                 0-808
                                                                                                                                                                 Efl     0684999         891                  Zil                        481              <:?.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0-9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8
                                            OBZ               9tZ              6CZ                  UZ             81      9-88Z                                 418                     188                  918                              6-0        »z
          91                  60Z            tt                6-89             84                   6-48                  t-SOl                 6-911           181                     3tl                  091                        8-141            iZ             9-9
                                                                                                                                   8-                                                                                                    E
It       681                 8-BOZ          81Z               ZEZ              4tZ                  19Z 8-                 9iZ                   06Z             SOB                     618                  ICE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          »88              81
               \8Z                                                                                                 tl                                                                                                                                     HZ             80
           8                                       *8Z                 84             t8Z                                                         f                                                                        '6
 f t t                        i-4l           88                9*               19                   4-94           \        00 Z-               01
                                                                                                                                                        8 4-     6Tt
                                                                                                                                                                        f8Z              881
                                                                                                                                                                                                 6684
                                                                                                                                                                                                              811                        EOT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4- 9-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6Z            0-4

 91           441                                           IGI       9-     90S
                                                                                   I- 0
                                                                                              OSS
                                                                                                      9- 9-
                                                                                                                   S8Z                                   96t8                91        t9S                 9-843
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         863    I        9-408
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         131       9-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1-888           988                 08     e-4
              188
                          I0                                      S-9         OZ                t8                     6t                                     9-89                      84                   Z6          0.401                             0-981           OSI                 IK          9
 91           t9I            6-                            f-Gil             861              SOS     t-           333                                   f-i8Z               91        IS3                 t-993         088             f-968             fi-608          m                   Z8        I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8-
                                                                                                      8                      I- 0 6 8                                                                                           6- 8-
 41
              888
              ZSI
                                                          8-8S8
                                                           Zi9I
                                                                              i
                                                                             181
                                                                                   6- 8- 4-
                                                                                                ZZ
                                                                                              961 Z-               OIZ
                                                                                                                       98
                                                                                                                              4-                         szz
                                                                                                                                                              IS
                                                                                                                                                                     8- Z-
                                                                                                                                                                             41
                                                                                                                                                                                        S9
                                                                                                                                                                                       G8Z
                                                                                                                                                                                              I0684          08
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ztsz
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           t6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         89Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8-601
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         8-883
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8ZI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4-468
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8-   881
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           sie
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 9 ss f- 8 Z   88
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               t8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7.
  f f
 81
              9Z8
              OtI
                                                          ite
                                                           SSI
                                                                      z I-   ess
                                                                             691 S-
                                                                                    9-          01
                                                                                              f8l                  861
                                                                                                                       fZ
                                                                                                                              9 S-                       8IS
                                                                                                                                                              68
                                                                                                                                                                     I0
                                                                                                                                                                              ! f f
                                                                                                                                                                             81
                                                                                                                                                                                        8S
                                                                                                                                                                                       LZZ
                                                                                                                                                                                              9- S-
                                                                                                                                                                                                             T-89
                                                                                                                                                                                                           o-sts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Z8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4 9- S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         143
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1-46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           III
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S-S8Z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9-     OKI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0-008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I             SE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               98
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AA 8 8 8 8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6-
                           6 8 4 9- 8
                                                                                   9-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9 4 6-
              fT8                                         0-636              ets              iS8                      ZI                                     6-93                      If     t-            88            Oi    t-          6f8             f-66          811 6-              is
 61           8ZI            f-                           3fl                Iis f-           Til                  981
                                                                                                                              t8                         8-00S               61        STZ                 8-6ZZ         tts     8-      8SZ               S-8iS           18Z 8-              88            7.
                                                                                                                              Z-
                                                                      68                             I- 0 6 6 8
              S08            8-                           918                188 8-           ste                        0                                    i-tl            t         6S                   4-8t          8S z-             84
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8- 4-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             i8 Z-         101 4-              68   S6 6 G
 oz           911            Z                                                                        4-                        Z                                                      80S                               Z8Z             9-9tZ                                                 Of
                                                           i-08I             StT              6St                  til                                   9-881               oz                            9-4IZ                 I-                        198        I-   SiZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               If   6
                                                                                                                                                                                              8 Z I- 0
  ! !         OGZ                                         9f08               618
                                                                                   Z I-
                                                                                              888                  8t8                                          9-3               1      ii                  18     S      9t    0-          09    9-        Si 0-          68
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9S
                                                                                                      9 9-                                                                             061    6-                                         m         t                                           St   01
 IZ           fOl                                          9-811             881 0-           ill                  S9I                                   8-941               IZ                            f-SOZ         GIZ     6-                        6-8tZ           893    t-
                                                                                    6                                                                                                    f                                                   set                                  8            Bt   nr
              448                                         t-36S              908              1S8     f-           S88                                   toss                     T1                         61 8-         88 8-                             8-89            a
                                                                                                                   Gfl                                                                                                          4-       Z-SSS                      i                          tf   01
 ZZ             16                                        8-901              OZl    8-        S8I                                                         8-t91              ZZ        8il                 Z-861         iOZ                               98Z             I9Z
                                                                                   i                  8Z                                                              Z                                                          9                 I-                            I-            St   01
      1       egz                                         Z-08S              tos              608                  8S8                                   888                           see                       Z-4       IZ                98              OS 9-          S9
                                                                                    9                                                                                                                      1       I.                                                 8                        91   CI
 8Z             64                                              ItG          801              8SI                  iei                                   I-ZSl               8Z        991                   18          SGI             O-OIZ             tSZ             6SZ 0-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               it
                                                                                                                                                                                              6 8 4- 9 S
              ess                                         893         0      Z8Z   S-         iGS                  118                                   9S8         0-       \        0t8                 S88      0-         6 sS          6-ez            f-88           Z9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    II
                                                                                                                                                                     6                        f                                                                                   68           8t   11
 fZ            49                                               6-18          96              on                   SSI                                   681                 fZ        tSI                 6-891         881             iGI       8-      8-818           9SZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          t 4- 6 1 1 i) 6 1 t 9 8
                                                                                   f8                                                                                                         8-                                                                                               6f   II
              HZ                                          8-SSS              OiZ              t8Z                  66Z                                   8-818                         8S8                 Zt8     8-    iS8                 II     8-       Z-9Z           Of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ~~l        OS   7-1
 9Z             89                                              4-69          ts    z           86                 811                                   4-431               ez        IZf     Z           4-9S1         lil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8 Z     S81       i-      8-008           fIZ                 IS   71
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I8
              6ZS                                         9-8tS              8SZ              343                  48Z                                   108 9-                        918                 9-088         ste             6S8        9-       I-*I           HZ                 zs   71
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   S-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  99S
 9Z             et                                              iS    9-      Zi                98                 101                                   SSII                9Z        081                 til           6SI             Sil               0-881           zoz                 es   7.1
                                                                                                                                                                                       808                               Z88
  f !         91Z                                         t-I88              SfZ              09Z                  tiZ                                   C8S         t-                                    t-818                         tits                    61         91                 fS   81
                                                                      8                                                                                                                                                                            8
 4Z             08                                              St            6S
                                                                                   I068        t4                      88                                 801        8       IZ        ill                 Z8I     8-    9tl             191               841 8-          OGI                 SS   81
      *       10S                                         8-613              88S   4-         8fZ                  Z9Z                                   Z-iiZ                         IGS                 908 Z-        0Z8             S88       Z-      4-6f8             t   *8z                       9 8 ii 8 g
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               93   81
 8Z             81                                              1-88          if                Z9                     94                                     I-IG           8Z        SOI                 OSI     I-    f8l             1-6*1             891      9      8il                 is   81
                                                                                                     I068 i99f8 Z I0
  !           SGI                                         I-iOZ              ISZ              98Z                  OSS                                  S9S          0-                GiS                 0-tGZ         808             0-8S8             e-iee           ZC8                 8S   11
 63                                                             OIZ           S8
                                                                                   9ss
                                                                                               6t      G               t9                                     84     6       6Z         86                 6-401         ZZ\             981 G-            t-TST           S9I   I068          68   tx
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           80 e
                                                                                                                                                                                              I068i9S t8                        I068i9S t8
                                                                                                      8
                                                                                                                            I 06 8i9 S f 8 Z I 06 849 S t 8
                                                                                   f
                                                                                                                                                                              \ \ \ f \
              081                                         6-tGI              GOZ              esz                  88Z                                  8-ZQZ                          ins                 I8Z     8-    90Z             8-018             SZ8 8-          688
 08       -             •
 09       II-
                I 0 6 8 i 9 9 f 8 Z I 0 6 8 8 4 9 99 f i9 f Z
 OG       41-
OZI       ZS-               G
061       8Z-               9

306                                           Prof. G. H. Darwin.                                                       [Juue 19,
                                                             To find V,.
  No table is necessary for the conversion of time into angle at 30°
per hour to find V„ or 2(y—rj)t, since we multiply the hours by 30,
and add half the number of minutes.    This rule is the same for every
day.
                                            B.           The tides S2 and K2.
  It    is required to compute                            U and 0 from
                                                                               "
                                        Ucoa       </>   =     n   +    X,,f       cos   u>,
                                        Z7sin0=                         \nf" sin         u>,
where                                         u>    =     2h0— 2v" + *n,
and
 i                                           „
                                             11    =      ¦.
                                                             +
                                                                   o
                                                                   31
                                                                       /sun's parx.— mean parx.\
                                                                                    E                        c
                                                         1
                                                                 \             mean parx.                             / ),
the sun's parallax referred                                  to being              its value at the middle of the
period under rednction.
   If, for example, February                                   14       is     the middle             of the period,            IT    is
found thus —      :
  Sun's parx. Feb. 14                    = 8"-95, mean parx. = 8"'85, diff. =                                               +0"-10.
Then                                        n =          1   +   — %^ = 1034.
                                                                       885
   The period under reduction consists in this                                                  case    of an exact number
of semi-lunations.  The following table gives                                                       \, and   «*, according            to
the number of semi-lunations —                            :
 No. of serai-
  lunations.                 1.                    2.                    3.                    4.                5.             6.
       logXn           9-4300               94159                      93920             93575           9   3113            92517
             on        14°-28                28°-82                    43°36             57°-90           72°-43             86°97
   h0   is   the sun's mean longitude at epoch, found from Naut. Al. and                                                        ;
2v",    f"   are found from Baird's Manual in the tables applicable to the
tide K3.
                                             C.          The Tides             N and L.
  Summations                 are carried out over quarter-lunar-anomalistic periods,
numbered          i,   ii,   iii, &c. Grand totals are then made in two different
ways, viz.        —
                                        - 2(iii
                  :
                      [2(i   +    ii)                    +   iv)]      +   [2(v      +    vi)   -2(iii       iv)]
                                                                                                             +
                       +     [2(v       +   vi>)-2(vii+viii)]-l-<fcc.,                              to find S°,
and                   [2(ii   +   iii)   - 2(iv           +    v)]      +    [2(vi       + vii)     - 2(iv   +        v)]
                                                    —                        ix)]-t-&c, to find S*",
                       +   [2(vi        +   vii)         2(viii         +

1890.]                    Harmonic Analysis                      of Tidal          Observations.                              307
where,          for example,               2(i + ii)       denotes summation                        carried         over the
half period made np of i ar>d ii.        These totals are multiplied by
certain mean cosines and sines (whose values are given in F), and are
summed.        The next process is multiplication by a factor                                                                     <J>
                —   of   4), of which the value depends on the number
(?r/4(n-t- l)(m                1)        §
of quarter-lunar-anomalistic    periods under treatment.  The following
table gives the value of this factor  —                        :
 Kb. of i-lunar-
 anom. periods.                 iii.               v.                  Tit.              ix.             zi.              xiii.
          *                0-02950            0   01475        0-00738             0-00492         0    00369        0-00295
   The angle      also required;
                   j      is        depends on the time of the first tide
                                                          it
tinder reduction.                   If
                          be the time in hours since epoch to the first
                                         t„
tide,
                                         j      = l°-690 -0°-5444                  t„.
     For instance, in the example below the first tide                                                  is   at    3h 14"1 of
day       -\   ;   this   is   &h      4em,   or 8h77,           before epoch, so that                       t„   = — 8h77        ;
then
                      j         = r-690+05-5444x8-77 =                                   +     6°-46.
                                           D.      The Tides             Kj, 0, P.
     Summations             are carried out over quarter-lunar periods numbered
I,   II, III, &c,          and totals are formed like those mentioned in  and a                                     C,
factor * (which differs slightly from <P)  required in the formation          is
of S° and S^"'. This factor depends on the number of quarter-lunar
periods under treatment, and the following table gives its value —                                                    :
No. of i-lunar
   period*.                III.               V.                 VII.               IX.                  XI.          XIII.
          *           0-02976              0-01488            0-00744          0-00496             0-00372           0-00298
   The angles     and i  are required they depend on the time of the
                                       I                          ;
first tide under reduction.  If be the time in hours of the first tide
                                                         t0
since epoch,
                                         i    =         l°-705    -    0°-549 t0.
                                         I    =-0a-255-l-0o082<().
     For instance, in the example below we have,                                                    as       shown       in       C,
t0   = -8h-77, and
                                                        i=+6°-52,
                                                   I     =-0°-97.
     It   is   required to compute                T      and     ijr   from

308                                     Prof. G. H. Darwin.                                              [June 19,
                                        T   eos   yjr   = i'—pn             cos   0,
                                        T   sin   yjr   =              pn   sin
                                                                              f    ,
where                                    e   = 2h0-v' + l+pll.
   The period tinder reduction consists in this case of an exact number
of quarter-lunar periods, and the following table gives the values of
p„ and pn, according to the number of quarter-lunar periods
                                                               —                                         :
No. of i-lunar
   periods.                III.           V.                 VII.                  IX.             XI.            XIII.
      log/>„          95749             9-5628              95508                 9-5303       9-5009         9-4618
         /9„          20°-20            33°-66              47°-13                60°-59       74° 06         87° 52
   h0   the sun's mean longitude at epoch, the formula for
        is                                                        given                                  I   is
above, and v,    are found from Baird's Manual in the tables applicable
                      t"
to the tide Kj.
         E.        Rules    for   the   Partition           of   the Observations             into Groups.
  If the first event after epoch        L.W., either omit  from the
                                                            is   a                                   it
reductions, or let the first tide be the_ H.W. which precedes epoch.
Thus we are to begin with      H.W.*         a
   The H.W. and L.W. are treated apart in separate tables.
   Each tide (H.W. or L.W., as the case may be)       numbered con                            is
secutively, from   onwards.1
   The following are rules for partitions —                            :
  * This      is   not necessary, but        it   makes          the    statements         of the subsequent rules
simpler, as they have not to be given in an alternative form.

1890.]     Harmonic Analysis of Tidal Observations.                  309
             :s
             •~
              H
                 eo
                t>-
                     eo
                     ^
                             eo
                             ^
                             eo
                                               Ess
             •2  O   OH I    C3                HC5X       I      1>
                                               K   iH pH I       CO
                 i-H fH
                                                 • (M  «
                                               «   S3 CO
                                               r^ r~tr-t         to
                                                                 C-l
              Jo o
             .2 <n imI
                              o                h22
                 HH     I     «                           j
             |S8        I     2
                                       HH
        5    :3  «»     I     ep
                              go
                                                 <CO 03
                                                 <03 03
              > 03 03
   M    ft   ¦p  ss           §         -J
                                        U
                                        a
                                               i>KK       !
    3                                  —
    a  r3
        0                               5
               • 1- CD        eo                 . CO CO I       N
                                        a
    ,„  co       to CO
                                        a     >.toco      |
                                                                 n
                                        x"
       |
                                   T3
   H                          to        o      <U+25BA>J ec eo I        co
    u  IS                     c     U  •2      P* us io          5
    O   <9                          O   a
        a
        c                               -
        3                                                        C3
        c                               a
                                       _a
        5                               ^.
        a
                                               <U+25BA>J  i» eo  I      eo
        a                              -2      HMN        I      to
             —' •* eo I       t~-                • eo eo I       co
             ^ TJ    ~T
              O £ *«
              ^ e- cu                               • «      8
                                                    5.5,
                                                   -t»-*»   -i-i
              m © ©
                                                             —
                                                   ^*3
                                                       ^     3
              1-E.3                            •g.s.a
                          if "3
             r'J
              3 ¦£ -g
                           o
                            . ™SL
                                                             o'C
                                                             d*<
                                                            li
                                               •MlHlH
                                                o o o
              o o o        o                    odd
                          H

310                            Prof. G. H. Darwin.                            [Juiie    19,
                                     For M3 and    S2.
                      Semi-lunations numbered I,            2, 3, Ac.
    No. of semi-lunation                        1      2        3       4     5       6
    No. of last II. W.      in  the    semi-
      lunation                                 29    57        86     114   143    171
    No. of last L.W.        in   the    semi-
      lunation                                 28    67        85     114   142    171
   Total No. of tides up to end of each
      semi-lunation                            57   114       171    228    285    342
                      For Annual and Semi-annual Tides.
             Months, or Tyh parts of a year, numbered 1, 2, 3.
     No. of month                                          1            2          3
     No. of last U.W. in month                            59           118       176
     No. of last L.W. in month                             59          117       176
    Total No. of tides up to end of each month,          118           235       352
     No. of tides in each month                          118           117       117
   The epoch for the second quarter year should be 91 days after first
epoch, that for the third 92 days after the first, for the fourth 91 days
after the third, except in leap year, when the last should also be 92
days.
   There are six tides (or about thirty-seven hoars) more in a quarter
year than in xiii quarter-lunar-anomalistic             periods ; the times of these
six tides (or ten tides in one of          the quarters) are to be omitted from
the reduction, and their heights are only required when the annual or
semi-annual tides are to be found.
                 F.   Cosine and Sine Factors       for all    the Tides.
   These are the cosines and sines of 2° 30',            7° 30', 12° 30',    &c.     They
are as follows    : —
                              Cosine and Sine Factors.
              Read downwards          for cosines, upwards for sines.
                     1.   0-999                         10.     0676
                     2.   0991*                         11.     0-609*
                     3.  0-976                          12.     0-537
                     4.   0-954                         13.     0-462
                     5.  0924*                          14.     0383*
                     6.  0-887                          15.     0-301
                     7.   0-843                         16.     0-216
                     8.   0-793*                        17.     0-130*
                     9.   0-737                         18.     0-044
                                                         C°S
   In  the evaluation of S° C?S
                                  sio   f Vm  and S1"
                                                          sin   $ Vm,  only the factors
marked * are required.

1890.]           Harmonic Analysis        of Tidal  Observations.             311
               G.   Increments of Arguments in Various Times,
    The following table gives the increments of arguments of the several
tides in various periods, multiples of 360° being subtracted.                This
table facilitates verification of the calculation of the harmonic con
stants.
                          M..           Sj.             K..             N.
                     -  28° -984101   30° -00000      30° 08214
                                                                  -  28° -43973
      1 day             24
                     + 116
                            -3815
                             185
                                       0
                                       0
                                                   +   1 -9713
                                                   + 19 -713      -  37 4466
                                                                     ]4 -465
    100 days         + 81   -85        0           -162 -87       -144 -65
                          L.           K,.               O.             P.
      1 day          -  29° 52848
                        11 3165
                                      15°
                                    + 0
                                          -04107
                                          -9856    -  13°
                                                      25
                                                          -94304
                                                          -3671   -
                                                                  -
                                                                     14°
                                                                      0
                                                                          95893
                                                                         -9856
    100 days  ....
                     -113 165
                     -  51   65
                                    + 9
                                    + 98
                                          -856
                                          -56      -
                                                   + 106
                                                      16
                                                          -329
                                                          -71     -   9
                                                                     98
                                                                         -856
                                                                          56
                                     Example.
             (a.) Place, Time, Datum Level, and Unit of Length.
    The case chosen is three months of observation (in reality the tidnl
 predictions of the Indian Government) at Bombay, and the epoch is
0h, January 1, 1887.
    A datum at or very near mean water-mark is taken, so that all the
 H.W. are positive and the L.W. negative. This datum is found by
 taking the mean of all the H.W. and L.W. of the original observations.
 In this case 99 inches was subtracted from all the tide heights.               I
 might more advantageously have subtracted 102 or 103 inches, but
 99 inches was chosen from considerations            applicable to my earlier
attempts, but which do not apply to the computation in its present
form.
    At places where there is a large annual inequality in the height of
 water, it would be advisable to use a different datum for each quarter
 of a year. It is not, however, important that the datum should con
 form rigorously to mean water-mark, for even the discrepancy of
 3£ inches, which occurs in my example, does not materially affect the
result.
    In recording the heights, a convenient unit of length is to be nsed,
 and it is advantageous that the H.W. and the L.W. should be expres
 sible by two figures, so that the larger H.W. and L.W. shall fall into
 the eighties and nineties.       The unit of length is here the inch.

312                          Prof. G. H. Darwin.                   [June 19,
                             (b.) Times and Angles.
    The times of H.W., numbered consecutively, are entered in a table,
as shown on p. 313.        Since 0h astronomical time is the epoch, the p.m.
tides will come in the half days which are numbered with integrals,
and the a.m. tides in the half days which fall between the integral
numbers.
    From time to time there will be a half day with no H.W. ; this row
in the table should be left blank, but there happens to be no such row
in the sample shown. A computation form for times and angles might
be printed, for, although the exigencies of the printer have not allowed
the entries to be equally spaced in the sample below, yet the computa
tion form might be printed with equal spaces, and the dividing lines
are to be filled in by hand.
    The L.W. table is similar.
    Both H. and L.W. are to be divided into quarter-lunar-anomalistic
and quarter-lunar periods, and semi-lunations, according to the rules
given in E. These partitions and the numbering of the entries could
not be printed, because of the occasional blank rows.
    The formation of \ Vm and of V,, by means of Table A and the rule
following it, is obvious. In the subtractions and additions nnder the
headings \ Vm— V, and \Vm-k-V„ 360° is added or subtracted where
necessary.       V„ is found by doubling ^VM.
                                (c.) The Heights.
    The H.W. heights are written in columns (with the same blanks as
 in the table of times and angles), and are so arranged, either on
 strips of paper, or by folding the paper, that the heights may be
 pinned to the times, bringing each height opposite to an angle on the
 same row with the time corresponding to that height.           The heights
 will on one occasion have to      be pinned opposite the Vm column, on a
 second occasion opposite the     V, column, and on a third occasion opposite
 the \Vm column.
     The L.W. heights are written in similar columns,         but the minus
 signs should be omitted.
    It is well to divide the columns, or to put fiducial marks in the
 table for easy verification of the proper allocation of the heights with
 the times.      Any marks suffice, but the division into quarter-anoma
 listic periods, as shown below, seems to be as good as any other.
     If it is proposed to evaluate the annual and semi-annual tides, it is
 necessary to carry on the heights beyond the times by 3 (or 5) H.W.
 and 3 (or 5) L.W., and to partition them into months.             The mean
 for each month is evaluated, and if the successive quarters of the
 year are referred to different data, the mean monthly heights must
 all  be referred to a common datum.        This process is not carried out

                                                                                                                 'MR
o                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3D ©
j   -oS    jo                                                                                                                                                                •taouy-f                          •tuiag
                -A>a      •arajx            -nnn        •1H             "Af          -inm    \iq                       -"A*          'A   *"At    +    ¦'A
                                                                                                                                                                              -spouad          •spouad     IBUtlf     ¦8U0
                         'i\       •m
                f-                *X        *-8        622
                                                              9- 3-
                                                                       862     0-    0-4     06      0-46               98X 0-             088     0-        0-901           i    nnjtaq
                0                 88        8-6         8*              4-29        0-61     06     601 0-              4-808              X9X     4         *-S0I
      8                888
                                  6*       811         4X2 *•          622     2-   3*2      06     3*11                4*11               4-8*8               *-86
                tX                18
                                           44
                                                  3-    3* 8-           89 8-       s-sx    021     9-381               442 8-             8-881             901
                                                                                                                                                                     9- 8-
                                  08             2-    6X2             6-922        O-Sl    021     0-381                 16 6-                  6-1          86
                8                                             4- 1-                         I
                                  9*       III          8*              2-69        0-82     OS     0-841               2-9*2              2-282             *-8lI
                                  02        8-*        222 0-          8-922        o-ox    091     0-091                 8-99               92 8-            9-86
     *e9t86     t8                91       8     9-     6-*9            89 9-        3-4    012     3-4X2               0-II2              0-982             0-481
                                  62         0-4       8*22            182     8-   S-*X    081     3*61                  8-98               8-39            BOX 9-
      01        *                 82       9     8-     49 2-           0-*4        0-*I    0*2     0-*S2               0-081              828 0-            8tX     0-
      II                          0*         4-6       9-922           982 8-       002     012     0-082                     8-9          8-901             211 9-
      21        9                 22         es         69              *4 8-       0-XX    042     182     0-          831     8-         938 8-            9-6*1
                                                               3- 6-                                                                                                                         J
                       * * 3349 8468
     SX                           4*       *-XX        822             8-0*2        9-82            9-892                 8-98             8-8*1             9-021                                 spaa
     tl         9      OX              6     2-2        8X4             0*4          s-t    008     9-*08               621     3            9-81            8*1      0-          ;epii9
     51                6          8*       *0I         2-182           1*2     9-   9-12    042     9-T6Z               0X8     I-         841    I-         est     2-      ii   nnSaq
                                                                                             'ong                             fKg                •ay
    691                           22         8-9       0-022           922 8-       IT 0-    08      It    0-           8-*8I              992    8-          906
    Oil
                I2T
                48                 4         4-1        t-8*            1-09         9-8     0!)     9-89               9-9*8              9-8X1             2-001
    141
                I\                89       8-21        6-402           4-022        9-92     08      93    S-           2*91               2-442              *-I8                                           g      epua
    241         88     2          6*       811          2-98            0-8*        9-*2     09      9t8                9-828              9-281              0-96                          IIIX    »Pna
    Cil         I      S          08        2-4        1-012           enz                                                                                    9*4            mx      spaa

314                         Prof. G. H. Darwin.                   [June  19.
in my example, because it is useless to attempt the evaluation of
these tides of long period from threo months of observation.
                                    H.W.
                                     55 i
                                     23
                                     47
                                     19
                                     41
                                     19
                                     37
                                     26
                                     35
                                     37
                                     37
                                     52
                                     42
                                     66 i
                                     50 ii
                                     80
                                     57
                                     91
                                     63
                                    None
                                     99
                                     67
                                    101
                                     66
                                     99
                                     65
                                     92
                                     58  ii
                                     8iyi
                                    &o., &c.
   The sum of all the H.W. entries to the end of xiii is 9791. The
 sum of all the L.W. entries to the end of xiii is 8577. There are 17.'>
 H.W. and 173 L.W.           Hence mean sea-level is     ^    (9791—8577),
 which is equal to +3-51.        It would have been better, therefore, to
 have subtracted 103 inches instead of 99 inches from all the heights.
 This would have given mean sea level at — 0'49 from the datum
 adopted.
       (d.) Sorting  tlie Heights according to the Values of the Angles.
    In  the tables   below   the column 0°   belongs to all angles between
 0° and 5°  ; o° belongs to 5° to 10° ; and so on.

 1890.]         Harmonic Analysis of Tidal Observations.               315
    Where an angle falls exactly on a mnltiple of 5°, an arbitrary rule
of classification is required, and it is easiest to deem it to belong to
the next succeeding 5°, rather than to the preceding 5°.
                  (e.) Sorting according  to Values of Vm.
   The H. and L.W. are treated in separate tables, similar in form
save that the — signs of the L.W. heights are omitted.
   The sheets of heights (c) are pinned opposite to the        Vm's on the
tables of angles (b), and the heights are then entered successively
into  the columns corresponding to their Va's in a table like the
following.
   The division into quarter-lunar-anomalistic periods is maintained,
but as this sorting is to serve a double purpose, it is necessary to mark
the end of the last semi-lunation. In these tables there are two H.W.
and. two L.W., which fall after the end of 6 semi-lunations, and before
the end of xiii quarter-lunar-anomalistic    periods.
   Nearly all the entries fall into one quadrant for H.W., and into
another for L.W. Thus there are no H.W. entries in the 4th quad
rant, and no L.W. entries in 2nd quadrant ; there are altogether only
10 H.W. entries in l8* quadrant, and 3 in 3rd quadrant ; and there
are only 4 LW. entries in the 1st quadrant, and       17 in 3rd quadrant.
 Something like this would hold true at all ports.
                                                                z 2

                                                                              AVH         '"A
                                                                                                                                                          ox    jo'
„x   •puiib                  0     9       01    81    OZ     8Z     08       98     0*         S*         OS    89    09    89    04    94    08    SS
                     »lauV
                                                                                                                                         68    8*    88
                                                                                                                                                     fS
              XI
                                                                                                                                   88    8t    89
              x
                                                                                                                                                                       Ph u o
              1!!*                                                                                                                             05
                                                                          9suonBunj-ituas            paa   '                                                          d
                                                                                                                                   o*
                                                                                                                                                               I I I
p„g •putib                   06    86     001   801   Oil    911    031   SSI       08T     SEt       0*1       8*1   081   891   091   891   Oil   SAI
                     °\SuY
                             It    A*      98    98     £8    61     St                         OZ               It                                            H
                             'AS                 S3
                                                 6T                                                              99
                                                              99     09       66     66         16     09                                                      Et
                                                              89     43        *    TOT
                                                              89     89
                                                               •     49
                                                                     Z6
              hi
              •os>                  'Of                            •Of
                                                                                                                                                                       a

                                                                                                                                                      ¦1 to Oi o
                                               Sf   19     QM    96    £8    60
                                                    08           88    6i    iS
                                                                  1    69    9t
                                                                  •    is
                                                                                                          T9    0?          U                    II
                                                                                                                            <ji;     t
                                                                                                                            III
                            49           19    69          99                                                                                    TI
                             ¦     •     S9     •    ¦     89                                              «     ¦     •      ¦      •
                             •
       •psnb        o[8uy   08T   981   06T   96T   OOg   903   OTS   912   OSS   o«g   02Z   92Z   OfZ        09s   953   09Z     99?
               nu            99                                                                                                                  I    ©
                             Sf
                             99
                    —                                                                                                                                 o
l{if
                                                                                                                                                      2
       •psnb                                                                                                                             I^ox   84T
                                                                                                                                                      I-

318                              Prof. G. H. Darwin.                                                           [June 10,
                                  >•       *•           ¦e?                                                         00
 6
                                                                                                                             1=
                                                                                                                             H
                             • . •     •
                                           5*                                         .o          5
                                                                                                       •¦•     •
                                                                                                   ....
                    cm                                                                co
                    §cm     co    —1 .
                                  -*       IO
                                                        •   •             •   •
                                                                                      s
                                                                                      co
                                                                                                                    •    •
                    io
                    to
                    CM
                            to     • ¦
                                           ss
                                                    •
                                                        SS . ss                       co
                                                                                                                    •    •
                    o                      IO >o                          m ,         2           o    .   .   .
                    LO
                    CM
                                  CO fH    CO i-<
                                                                                      co
                                                                                                  3
                    iO
                    -K            N    .   CO       .   ¦   '             •   •       io          03 co .      .
                                                                   :                  co             U0
                                                                                                   ....
                    CM                                                                co
                    s              •   •                                  •   •       o
                                                                                      co
                                                                                      co
                    >o             •   •        •   •   -     ¦           •   •       IO          IO to .      .    •    •
                    CO                                                                ¦N          IO HO
                                                                                      CO
                    sCI                                 "                             o      •8
                                                                                                   ....
                                                                                      co
                                                                  1
                    va       •     •   •                                              >o
                                                                  <                                                ¦0
                                                                  c                   co
                             •     •   •                .     . a         .   .       ©            •   ¦ •     *         •
                    8
                    CM
                                                                B
                                                                3                                                  3
                    1—
                     1
                             •     •   •                .     .6©         .   .                    .   . .     .
                                                                                                   ....
                    CM                                                                ci
                                                                  co
                    O                           •   •   -     •           .   ¦
                                                                                      8
                                                                                      CO
                                                                                                                   IO    0
                    CM
                    »tO                                                               IO                            •    *
                                                                                      OS
                    ?1
      a                      •         •                                              o                .
      CI
                                   •            •   •   •         •:      •   •
                                                                                      01
                                                                                                   .       .   .
                                                                                                                   s     •
                             ¦                  •   •   •     •       :   •   •       IO
                                                                                      X
                                                                                                   .... 0          co
                                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                   ....
                    —                                                                 C4
                             •     • *          •   •   • •               •
                                                                      .       •
                                                                                      s                             •    •
                                                                                                   .... 0
                                                                                      01
                                                                                  1
                                                •   •                     •   ¦ 1IO                                      .
                    JD
                                                                                      s                            IO
                    —
                                                                                  '
                                                                                      o            .... l-               .
                                                                                       ©
      so
                     Ang]
                                                                                      \<
           :2                                                                                     :s
                                           .a                                                4                     -¦1
                1   "S
                                                                                       ---

1890.]                Harmonic Analysis of Tidal Observations.                                     319
                  (f.) Table of Sums for N and L.                     (See p. 320.)
  Maintaining the divisions i,    iii, <fec,     now necessary to sum
                                                  ii,            it   is
each of the  four times 18 vertical   columns in  each of the xiii divi
sions, to subtract the 18 columns of the 3rd quadrant from the
18 columns  of the 1*, and to subtract the 18 columns of the 4,h
quadrant from the 18 of the 2nd. The 2nd— 4th columns have then
to be reversed.
   Since in this case nearly all the H.W. fall in the 2nd quadrant,
and nearly all tlie L.W. fall in the 3rd quadrant,        easy to write      it   is
down at once 2nd— 4th, and 1st— 3rd, as shown on the next page.
   In this the — signs of the L.W. entries have to be reintroduced,
but as the L.W. lie mostly in 3rd quadrant, which enters with nega
tive sign, they become positive again. It thus happens that nearly
all the columns come out       there are, however, a few — in xii.
                                       +    ;
                      (g.) Table       of   Sums   for    M2.    (See p. 321.)
    We now disregard                the sub-divisions           i,   ii,   iii, &c, and sum the
4   times 18 columns                into grand totals,     stopping the summations,
however,        at the end of          6    semi-lunations    {i.e., at 171 H.W. and
171   L.W.).
    It would hardly  be wise to attempt in this                             case the subtractions
1"— 3rd, 2nd— 4th, without the intermediate steps.
  The following table (p. 321) gives the results.
               (h.) General Rule for Cosine and Sine Summations.
    For   '
               cosines
                          '
                              the    18     numbers         required        are    derived        from
(l«t_3rd^_(2ui_4th)             reversed).
    For       sines       the 18 numbers required               are derived        from
          '           '
                                                                                            (1st— 3rd)
+   (2nd— 4th,     reversed).
          (i.) Evaluations          o/N     and   L     (continued).        (See p. 322.)
         — From Table (f) of Sums enter the 18 cosine numbers,
    Cosines.
                                                                              '         '
in accordance with (h) in xiii vertical columns, and perform the
operations indicated in the example on page 322.
  The column of cosine factors'
                                    are those given
                                                    '
                                                                                  in   F,   and   4>   is
given in      C   for xiii ^-lunar-anomalistic             periods.

                                                                           (i)     suing                U     P'<°     '1                                                                                 33
                                                                                              ¦'o/
                         Al'H               84          If         98       46     48         6T         Z\           "            9S     -         9ST
       (vf-p«Z)
                         Ail                6                '         "     -     Z9        Ot         9TZ          TT      8T                                                             •
       (mf-v*Z)
                        l«V>I               48          It         98      46      66        69         8SZ          TT      8T    9Z     "         9SI
       p«Z)
       (w8-i.l)         AVH
                   l                                                                                                                                                           9Z          91
       (w8-mT)              Ai       '
                        M                                                                                                                                                      QZ          91
       (w8-mT)
                         pafuoAag                                                                       991                  9Z    8T    TT         8SZ     69    66    46     98          4f    48
       (,,^-poZl
                   a?                            "a?                                              -0?                                         -oy                                  •ojp
       mf-v»Z      A\H                                                                                                       OZ    '                  99    93    19    ftf               tZT    Z*
       vf~vZ       AVI                                                                                                                              OTT          96     09     f
                                                                                                                                                                              91                 tt
                                                                                                                             OZ           '         991     99   9H    f-81   861         fZT    98       jjj
       (v*-p"8)
                                                                                                     — —
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <
       M.*Hn8-wT                     WI-
       AVIwS-i.T                      96-          61-           8Z-                                                                                                                                      '£
       (iu8-i.l)        I*}<>i       OtT-          GI-           88-
                         poejai^g;          98         fZl        86T      T>8T   9tl         99        991           •       '    OZ
!!!*   w*-f«Z      M'H                      49          6*       911        69          *   iZl           -      QZl          "   09     49
       vf-mZ       1     A\                 49          09             "   99      W         *          8X1           ¦      09   99
                         Wj,           fZl               66       9TT      9ZT      f9      4ZT         8IT      6ZT         09   911    49
       („*-P„s)
       PiE-nI      AH                                                                                                                                                   ZV                 m          •   >-s
       P.G-..T     AVI                       "               "         *     "                                                                                                T8T           •         •   §
                                                                                                     .                                                                                                    ffl
                                            ¦
                        tu1°J.                                                                                                                                          Z*    T8I          09
       (wG-.-T)
       („t-p«-)          po««u»H                                                                                     49     911   09    6ZI         fill   481    VQ   QSI    9TT          66   ttl       of

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            —
            ..I    -AVH           "•                                           ¦                                                                                                                          88         911     8M       48
                                                                                          ¦                                  ¦                     ¦                                ¦          ¦
            ..I   I    AV      •••          99-        61-    88-                                    ¦           •                                                                                                            •       ¦
            w°x*>i                          9'J-       61-    88-                                                                                                                                         88         911     8*1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           o c ¦8
            vZ      AVH       "
                              "
                              '              898        4*8    018         83*        868       946        930T        08IT        116        849         869        969       68*        98T        S68             881     418     9T8
            po8 "AVT          ••"
            p»8 I"1°X         •
                              *
                              '              898        4*8    018        89*         868       946        9301        08TI        T*6        849        869        969        68*        981        968         881         4T8     918
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           •9
            pj8    H   "Ai    •   '   •      091
            iu8 AV7           "       -                   •                    •          •          •           •                             ¦              •          •          •    8*-        *6-        zu-         801-    661-
                                                                    ¦                                                        ¦          ¦
            l"1°Ii»8          •••            091         •      •              •          •                  •                          •      •                     •          •        8*-        *6~        zu-         801-    66T-
                                                                                                                             ¦                            ¦
            <..*
            AVI<l*
            I«)ox„*
                   H   A\     "
                              -
                              "
                              •••
                              •••
                                          *98-
                                          *98-
                                                   881-
                                                   •
                                                   881-
                                                              *9-
                                                              *9-
                                                                        18*-
                                                                        18*-
                                                                                   8*3-
                                                                                   8*3-
                                                                                              018-
                                                                                              018-
                                                                                                         83*1-
                                                                                                         83*1-
                                                                                                                     3601-
                                                                                                                     3601-
                                                                                                                                 883-
                                                                                                                                 883-
                                                                                                                                            813-
                                                                                                                                            8TS-
                                                                                                                                                          •
                                                                                                                                                       98t-
                                                                                                                                                       98*-
                                                                                                                                                                  0*8-
                                                                                                                                                                  0*8-
                                                                                                                                                                             898-
                                                                                                                                                                             888-
                                                                                                                                                                                        088-
                                                                                                                                                                                        0S8-
                                                                                                                                                                                                   608-
                                                                                                                                                                                                   608-
                                                                                                                                                                                                               1*8-
                                                                                                                                                                                                               nz-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            89-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            89-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    99-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    99-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           i
(wt—p-8)           ••"I"'0!                 989        98V     *98        886        0*8       98U         6038        ST88       em         9611       *eoi        986        864        SS8        *09         898         698     888
(i»8-i.T)          l*K>X                  988-         61-    88-                                                                                                                          8*        881         488         938     988
•P89J3i0a(„1,-png)                                      698    898        K9          998       864          986       *eot       9611                  3188       6098       98ZT        or-8       r.m         *98         98*     989
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   uing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       J°   9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       anisog
                     •sauisog                                     suing      m •Blind                                                            ¦soouuajjig                                                       -aid
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ¦gjaiani
                                                                                                                                                                                                              8nipao!
                                                                                                                                                                                                               •BJOO
                                                                                                         i   +                   A               +
                                                                                                                                                 A                               +
                                                                                                                  ii                 + IA                  1A              XI        x         XI X+
                 n    -ox?       JJX                 ;   +   n in       +   aj •wp ix      +   nx    -           +           -               -            +            -                   -         +                                                  +
                                                                                                         in)           (ai       in) + (a;       iii)           (m.v       ju) + (mi           IX)      (nx
                             922-                                   -       29         922-              +        29              + 29                    022                 02Z                    922                    06A    x   606-        = 064
                             e*t-                                   82T-               CTl-                      821             +    821
                                                                                                                                                  + +
                                                                                                                                                          221
                                                                                                                                                                           + +
                                                                                                                                                                                 221
                                                                                                                                                                                               + +
                                                                                                                                                                                                     8tl                    889        T66-
                             922-                                   Q9X-         •oiy 922-                       991             +   1 99                                                      + 922
                                                                                                                                                                                                              + + +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            999        946-             2*9
                                                                                                         + + +
                             fSl-                                   281-               *8l-                      28T             +    S8I                 882              +     882           + m             + UOT                   t-96-          9201
                             9*1-                                                      981-                                                               041              + 041                     981                    929        tSG-             98f
                             -                                                         -                                         +                                         +                                  + +
                                                                                                                                                  + + +                                        + +
                                  99                                oi*-                   99            + 01t>                       Olf                 918                    918                  99               8191            488-           9t8I
                             991-                    991-           281-         •o?   991-                       42             -     TT         681-                     281-                -      02      -             942        8f8-                       288
9SI-I
             -   08    ¦™l               -      49   -   08         tS8-               -   9T                    *92             +    402         +       Ht               +      T4           691-            +            T6f-       864'             CSC
  -          -                                                                         -                                         -                                                                             -
                                                                                                         + + +
        92       16                      911-        411-           841-                       95'                T9                   68         901-                     008-                998-                         6W         484-                       IS9
  -     8t   TT8-            -      02   -   09      628-           982-         •o?   988-              -        *6             +     99         +        il               +        6*        f6I+-           + 912                   949-             9*1
  -     TI   TT2-                        621-        222-           991-               848-              -        99             499-                      f
                                                                                                                                                          so               62*-                081-            - 988T                  609-                     8111
  8S2-       629-                        811-        484-           922-               64*-              299-                    -   IZ           +       018               + 94t              + 868           +            069        489-             4X8
  - 69       T48-                        421-        08f~           *68-               098-              -    98                 + 641            -        89               +        \Z              L7-Z                   928        •29f
  -     66   - 86                        -   19      261-                              -   T6            2(51-                   -  69            +       882              +     812           + +     4      + +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            461        888-               91
  -     46   89T-                        -      88   092-           891-               -       9*        -   46                  +     89         90T-                     801-                -       89      -            908        108-                        26
  -     6                                +      99   -       6                                           -         6             -     02         -   02                   +         04        +       04     +              T6        912-               02
  -     TS                               -      6*   -       T8                                          -        T8             -     *6         -        *6              -         f>S       -       W           -        4ze        OKI-                        et
  -     48                               *2I-        -       48                                          -        48             -     04          -       01              -         69        -       69      -            S98        no-                         9T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  +   20OS-8IU9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2902-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1*1°!                          1988+
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   *   ¦      x   eozoo-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       •
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   •="A«w¥o8                   +   11   HI.'-

1890.]            Harmonic Analysis of Tidal Observations.                                                 323
    Cosines            — Form columns ii + iii, iv+v, vi + vii, viii + ix,
              (continued).
x + xi, xii-rxiii.    Form difference columns              iii) — (iv + v),     (ii +
           —                    —
(vi + vii)   (iv v), (vi + vii)
                       +           (viii ix),     (x + xi) — (viii + ix),
                                                             +
(x xi) — (xii + xii) add the difference columns together; multiply
    +                         ;             5
                                                              <I>   or 0-00295.
by cosine factors sum and multiply by
                          ;
  The result     —is  :
                                       S^fccos   V„ = -8-38.
   Sines.— From Table (f) of Sums, enter 18 "sine" numbers, in
accordance with (h) in xiii vertical columns.
   Perform all the same operations as those on " cosine " numbers,
save that we use sine factors, which are the same as cosine factors in
inverse order, viz., beginning with O044 and ending with 0'999.
   The two results are —
         S°h sin V* = +5-94,                                 S*h sin V„ =             +   10-06.
    Collecting results, proceed thus —            :
         S°h cos      V„ = +11-38.                           SH cos V.          =     -    8-38.
         SWi sin Vm = +10-06.                                S"hsmVm            =+5-94
         Sum                  = +21-44.                      Sum                =     -    2-44.
         Diff.                = + 132.                       Diff.              = -14-32.
         P    =    sum = +1072.                              E      =   sum     =     -    1-22.
         Q    i |
              =     diff.     =    +   0-66.                S
                                                                    i |
                                                                    =   diff.   = ~        7-16.
                              (i.) Evaluation Mj (continued).
  From the Table (g) of Sums for M, enter in one vertical column
18 cosine numbers, in accordance with (h)       multiply them by          ;
cosine factors add up and divide by the total number of entries for
                  ;
6   semi-lunations,         viz., 342.
    The result    is  :—
                                                       ¦
                              A.   =    rh2^     cos   V„ = -30-58.
  Tben enter in vertical column 18 sine numbers, in accordance with
(h) multiply them by sine factors, add up, and divide by 342.
     ;
  The result   :— *
                  is
                              Bm   = rijVh sin         V.    = +38-47.
     (k.) Sorting according              to Values     of   V„ and Evaluation             of   S3,   Kt.
  The H. and L.W. are treated in separate tables, similar in form
save that the — signs of the L.W. heights are omitted.

324                                Prof. G. H. Darwin.                                 [June 19,
   The sheets of heights (c) are pinned opposite to the V,'a on the
Tables of Angles (b), and the heights are entered successively into the
columns corresponding to their V,'b in a table like (e), which was used
for sorting according to values of Vm. The sorting is carried as far
as the end of an exact multiple of a semi-lunatiou, — in this case to the
end of 6 semi-lunations.      No sub-division is necessary, but for the
purpose of verification it is useful to break the entries into groups of
about 40. This is conveniently done by a division after each third
^-lunar-anomalistic period, so that i,      iii would be the first group
                                                      ii,                                         ;
iv, v, vi the second vii, viii, ix the third and x, xi, xii, and all bat
                              ;                              ;
the end of xiii, the last.
   In this case the entries fall into all the four quadrants with about
equal frequency.
  We next sum the four times 18 columns, just as with M.3 in (g),
and form 1st— 3rd and 2nd— 4th, reversed, in the same way.
  Next we write the 18 cosine numbers, (1"— 3rt) — (2nd— 4th,
reversed) in vertical column, multiply by cosine factors, add, and
divide by the total number of entries, which           342.  Afterwardsis
write the sine-numbers         3ri) + (2nd— 4th, reversed), multiply by
Bine factors, add, and divide by 342.
  The results are         : —
  A, = -gfrVh       cos   V, = +2108.                   B, =     ^S/i       sin   V, = +3   62.
                     (1.)     Sorting according        to   Values    of   ^Vm.
  The whole process       precisely parallel to the sorting according to
                                  is
values of F«in (e) the thirteen divisions are, however, given by the
                          ;
quarter-lunar-periods    II,      . XIII.
                                  I,      ...
                                            The only difference lies in the
substitution of the factor * (for               XIII
                                          equal to 0-00298) for «. It                             is
unnecessary to give an example.
  The results are —   :
        S°hcos±Vm       = -10-50,                           S°h sin           = +8-04,
        St"h cos    1V„ =    0-40,+                         S*h sin iV„       = + 3-74.
                                       (m.) Sorting    of
                                                        |     Vm.
  It    required to find what the sums in (1) would be
       is                                                every H.W.               if
height had been unity, and every L.W. the same both in magnitude
and sign; in fact to find S° cos $Vm S*"' cos     &c.
   This    done by counting the entries in the preceding sorting in
            is
(1) without  regard to magnitude, taking the L.W. entries as actually
positive, instead of being (as they are) negative quantities with the
negative sign suppressed.
   Since in this case we have simply to count entries which are all
treated as positive, the table of sums of H. and L.W. may be written
together.        The following example gives part of the work —

CO   o             5                                                                                              CO
                          •                                                     •
                                            g                         i
                                            +
             I         n-
                                T           T
                                            +
                                                                     8         8
                                                                               +
                                                                                    e       8
                                                                                            +
             If        8-
                                      I     T-
                                                                     fI        8
                                                                               +
                                                                                    z
                                                                                            z-
             I8        5-
                                XX          0                              8
                                                                               8-
                                                                                        8
                                                                                            8-
              ¦           •     zz          0X                                      ¦                  •
                                                      +
             I         X
                       +
                                      8
                                            8- +
                                                      t               •         •   •                  ¦
             I         x
                       +
                                       ¦              t
                                                      +
                                                                      •         •   •         •
                                                                                                           Of
             I         X
                       +
                                 •             •                      •         •   •
                                                                                                      8-
             •           •             •                              •         •
                                                      z-                                              8-
              •           •      ¦                                    •                               e
                                                      8-                                              +
              •           •      •                    1               •                               8
                                                      +                                               +
              •           •            •       •
                                       •                                                                   •0?
                                                      •AM
                       wt-P.Z               P.8-..X   'm*-p«Z                               Pi8-i.X
         I
             poZ                ».x   Pi8                            P»Z
                                                                II                                         "III

326                             Prof. G. H. Darwin.                         [June      19,
    We next proceed to form             XIII   columns of cosine numbers, and
generally to operate exactly as though these numbers were heights ;
and then proceed with         XIII     columns of sine numbers in the same
way.
    The results are
          S°coaiVw =-0-0522,                      S°sin^VM      =+0-0117,
                cos $Vm   = -0-0168,               S*» sin  JV„  = -0-0129.
        (n.) Formation of       the Mean Sums      of cos  £Vm and    sin  -| Ym.
    These maybe found with sufficient accuracy from the last Table (m)
of Sums, part of which is given. In that table lines are drawn dividing
the columns into three divisions of six each.                These are treated in
the way shown in the following example : —
                                  H. and L.W. |V».
                                                                  Refer to preceding
                                                                      sorting (in).
I.                                    •                         -1" six of 2-"1-4a,.
                        0
                                           -a       0      0    + 2"* six of l"-3rd.
                            + 1                                 + o'd six of 2»d-4">.
   2nd_4tb      .... -3    + 1        •    -3       0      0
                                                                + ]»• six ofl--8rt.
                            +i      + i    +i       •   -2      + 2°" six of  2Dd-4,>>.
                      +i   -1      -2                           -3rd six of lrt-3rd.
   l.t_3rd                    0    -1                   -2
   2°d-4u', rev.        0   '0     -8            +i     -8
II.                                   ¦             •           -1"   six of 2nd  -4"-.
                                                         -3     + 2«d  six of        3rd.
                      + 3   +3                                  + 3"1 six of 2nd  -4'".
   2»d — 4,t>»  .... +3    + 3        •      •      •    -3
                                             •                  + 1" six of 1"- 3rd.
                                                 -2      -a     + 2»d  six of 2»d-4a>.
                      + 2  -3      -2                           -3">sixof      l"-3rt.
   l'«-3">            +2   -3      -2        ¦   —2      -3
   2nd _ 51^   rev.  -3                           f3     +8
III.                                 &o.
    We ha ve now on ly 6 instead 0 f 18 sub-d ;visions of the quadrant, but
the cosine and sine numbers are found in exactly the same way as
                                         •
before.                               :
    The following example shows part of the treatment, and the cosine
factors are those marked * in F.

                                                                                                                                                                                                      sr.
            •ssnisog                                 Bumg       m 'untd                                •eaouojojjTQ
                                                                                                                                        •etimnjoo
I           II            ¦nix       I
                                     +    II   III    +   'AI           IX   + MIX            1)
                                                                                                   + +
                                                                                                        ¦(11             •(x+xi)
                                                                                      iii)-              (ai          TX)-    + ¦(IIX
+          +9       ¦mg      0       +   9           3-           •mf        +8                    +   8                                  +   83              IGO-0               33 846-
           8-              T-                        +
                                                                                                                             01
                                                                                                                              +           -     8                                           i   3G8
                                     8-                                      I-                    9-
+          3-
                                                       80                    B-                                              t-           91-                 86Z0                          3i RS9-
                '          +    01       01
    10E1
+                                    +               9-           'Of        +    1            +       09      •OTg          I-           + 03                  G<19-             31 081-
t-         9-       ¦Of    I-        9-              + 8                     6-                    8-                                     41-
                                                                                                                                                             00   888                       9  ITS-
+   T      9-              +    1    9-              I-                      8-
                                                                                                                               14
                                                                                                                             + +          +   03              08T0                 031-8
                                                                                                                                                                                  88 8Z3-   93 TG9-
                                                                                                                                                                                  TGS-93
                                                                                                                                                                                  TI 389-
                                                                                                                                                              *             + x 0
                                                                                                                                                    Jojobj        •
                                                                                                                                                                  •     •           80300
                                                                                                                                                    "aSs^cS
                                                                                                                                                                        =   +   0   W80

328                      Prof. G. H. Darwin.                [June   19.
   The remaining process is exactly like that pursued before, and the
four results are
       S°cosfV„     =+0-0347,          S°siniV„ =-0-1830,
       Si* cos fV„ = -0-0479,              sin fV, = -0-0173.
             (o.) The Sorting of %Vm+V, and of ±Vm-V,.
   These angles have to be sorted without reference to the heights, or
just as thongh all the heights were unity. Every entry is to be re
garded as unity. The following example shows part of the sorting of
£V„ + V„ and 1 denotes a H.W., f a L.W. ; by this device H. and
L.W. may be sorted on the same paper.
   We may also, if it is found convenient, put on it the sorting of
!£Vm—
       V, by adopting, say 0, to denote a H.W. and • a L.W., each
one of these four signs denoting simply unity.

o                                                                                                                                                                                 OS —
H                                                                l                                       I
                                                     H     P™»         Ai         'Af     +   "A               AVH          aoJ
                                                                                                                          J-'     'ATI
s
«    ,,x -pnnb                      0           01    91          0?         93          08         98    Of         9t     09           99    09    99    04   84     08    98
                    i^iSuy
                                                                                                         4-.                                        +
                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                  3
         II
     pog •ptrab   »»[8uy        06        96   001   901         Oil        911         OZI        981   081     981        OH       9*1      091   991   091   99T   Oil   941
         'I                                          +
                                                     1
         II                                                                                        4T
                                                                                                                                                                                   *3
     ^.g -punb    eoiSny       '081     •a?
                             •Olf
                                                                                                                                                                                         *
                                                                                                                                                                                  g S 52
at
                                                                                                                                                                                   S".

330                              Prof. G. H. Darwin.                                          [June   19,
  We then proceed to count these l's and f's jnst as was done
with the number of entries in the sorting of £Vm, and to operate on
them in the same way.
  The results are
   S° cos    (iV.-V.)        =--0078,                      S°sin(±VM-V,)                =--0060,
  Si'cos (£V,„-V,) = +                  0280,              S»'sin (%Vm-V.) = +"0078,
   S°cos(iVra+V,)            =+-1244,                      S°sra(fV.+V,)                =+-0094,
   S»' cos    (4V„ + V,) = +            0147,              Si* sin ($V. + V.) = + "0834.
(p).— Evaluation of F.'«',              G.<»»,    UP,       g,"», F„<i-\ Q,<W,               f „<»->, g«<H
                  F/<", G/"1, f,'"1,     gs'»>,    F,«»>,    G,<W, f/M, g,<K
  These      16   coefficients      are     required               to   correct     the      four   sums
                            for the influence of the tides M, and So.
      C0S
S°h      4V», SW( c?s 4V,,.
     sin "         sin *
   I call S°7i cos     + corrn., W, S°& sin           corrn., X, and the
other two Y and Z.
   The correction to be applied to S°h cos £V„ to get W is
                   - [P.w A„        +   G„<<» Bm       +   F.««»   A, + G,<»>B,],
and the correction to be applied to S"h sin %Ym to get                              X   is
                   - [f      A, + gJ°>Bm
                          „<•>                     +    {,«•>A. + g,(°'B,],
and    the two other corrections                  are      given        by symmetrical          formula1
with   (^7r) in place of (o).
  These coefficients are computed from S° and SI" of                                    .
                                                                                             (iVw+V*)
and of
            ^ (iVm+V,),          as given in       (m) (n) (o).             It    must be especially
noticed that we have above in (m) computed S° and S of sin             ;
but £V»— V»=- £VM, so that the signs of our previous results must
be changed in these two cases.
    if we remark that km and k3 are constants found by theoretical con
siderations, that Am, B„, A„ B„ are already found, and that in the
first column we are compelled to omit the affixes to the letters S,                                     A',
and the F's and G's, because they indicate various sorts of S's and A's
and F's and G's in the different columns, the computations in the
following table      are easily followed           :   —

1890.]           Harmonic Analysis      of Tidal    Observations.         331
                              S".           B°.         SK        Si».
                              = 2.    fa =    2 07.  fa* = 2. fa = 2 -07.
                              =   V«. V,   =  v,.    Vp = V„. V, = V,.
         lScos(iV„-V^)      — •0201     -   -0039    - -0084    +   0140
         |S cos (1V- + V,)  + ¦0174      +   0622    + -0240    + -0074
         Sura        S      _                        -              (214
                                        -
                              ¦0087     +    0583        0324   +
        Diff.       A       — •0435
                                                     -
                                            -0661    + -0156    +   0066
                                        -
                            — •0174                     -0648   + -0448
                            -
                                        + -1207
                   hA         •0870          1368    + -0312    + -0137
             kA  =  F       _           -            -
                                                     -
        2 +                     0957        -0785        0012       0351
                            -
                                                                +
        A  + kE   =» g         ¦0009     + -0546        -0492   + -0509
         IS sin  (iV.-V,) _             - -0030
                                                     -
                              •0059                      0065       0039
                            -
                                                     +          +
         |S sin  (iV„ + V?)    •0915     + -0047        -0087   + -0417
        Sura                _                        -  -0022       0456
                                                                - -0378
                    a         •0974      + -0017                +
        Diff.       J                   -•0077
                                                     -
                            + •0856                  + -0152
                            — •1948     + -0035         -0044      -0944
                                        - '0159                 - 0782
                                                                +
                   id       + •1712                  + -0304
              M   =  f                  -                       -
                                                     -          -
          <T+               + ¦0738         -0142    + -0282       -0326
       (« +  *»)  =  &      + ¦1092     + -0042         -0108      -0566
                                                                 1 A 2

                •sjuaioigaoj                                                              "ff-                                                                               'a-
                                                      4S60--                                     +     Z6DI-                            -     S8Z0-                                   + ZtOO-
sooVoS)   Og-OT-t^A?                                                          (->"'£))                                  (f'i)                                      (<•*{))
                   +     fO-8                         +       8840-                              -     6090-                            -     ztro-                                    '' 9*90.
VoS) n!B ("A!                         (owi)
                                                      -       ZIOO-                              -     8010-                         +        TS80-                               -      9880-
0t-0+(""A?eo3WS)                                                              (**¦"£))                                                                             (*f*t))
                    +                                     + Z8Z0-                                                                       -     9930-                                   + 6090-
™¥*$S)     CAf           W-B          (^"j)                                                                             {*\°})                                     ("t^)
                                   «V—           -        '83-08+             "2-                '4t.se-            =T-              TB-           '80-                      -        89-8-
            Xq^djipiH
                   01-       09                      Z-       16-                           V-         £2-                          +       99-1                                 o-      10-
                  +      8 tO-                       +    fZ-Z                              +    S    98-                           + 08-0                                       6T-0-
                   +     OtO                         wo-                                    + ZtO                                                                                +    0  ZI-
                  +      *4-8                        +0       98                            +        TO-T                           +   T     02-                                8T-0-
                                                                          X                                         A                                              z
                         +            -                             +               —                          +                —                         +                  —
                                    09-01                      8    TO-                                      oto
                                      T6Z                        tz-z                                                     TO-0                          98-0
                                    f      82                  Z    98-                                      St-0                                       T61
                       1  99-                                    oeo                                                      WO                            OZl
                                      TOO                                     0     61.                      ZI-0                                                       0        81-
                       T  99'       41 99-                    %GZl                                           *60          0     84                      Ul
                                     T     99-                   6T0                                         84-0                                       8L0
                                  66-91-                  +   34ZT                                     +     91-0                                   +
                                                                                                                                                    :        eg.

1890.]                  Harmonic Analysis of Tidal Observations.                                 333
                         W = -1599                                X =     +12-75
                                                                  Y
                  W+Z =           -
                          Z = + 7-53
                                       8-46                 X+Y
                                                                      = +
                                                                      = +1291
                                                                               0-16
                  W-Z -23-52  =                             X-Y       = +12-59
               i(W+Z)= -                4-23             i(X+Y)=          + 6-46
                i(W-Z)=            -11-76                |(X-Y)=          + 6-30
             (q.)       Computation of Astronomical                and other Constants.
                                                                           '
      Find             the    moon's       mean longitude           (see     Nautical Almanac,'
 Moon's Libration),               and h0 the sun's mean longitude (sidereal time
 reduced to angle) from the 'Nautical Almanac,' and                                 the longitude
  of moon's perigee, from Baird's Manual,* Appendix Table                                        XII
  (there called ir), at the epoch C1, January 1, 1887, Bombay mean
 time, in        E. Longitude         4h 855.
      From Baird, Tables                XIY, XV, XVIII, find N the longitude of
  Moon's node, and I, v, f at mid-period, February 14, 1 887+
                                    I
      With the value of find f„ from XIX (1) for the tides M,, N, L ;
  from     XIX       (3) find    f0  for the tide 0 ; from XIX (8) find                   f for the
  tide Kj ; from XIX (9) find f" for the tide                         K,;   from XX find v for
  the tide Kx ; and from XXI find 2i>" for the tide K2.
      The results are
            so   =   359°-43,           h0 =   280°-63,        p„    =  165°-36.
             v   = -9°-60,               f = -9°-00.
        l/f„     =    0-9709,         l/f.= M61,                 f = 0915,            f" = 0802.
             „'  = -6°-30,             2*" =    -ll°-75.
      Then compute initial equilibrium arguments, in the symbol                                   for
  which the subscript letters indicate the tides referred to, —
  UM    = 2(ho-r»)         -2(*4-f),            u0 -    {h0-   v)-2(«„-f) + £»-,            ut =  0°,
        = 203°-60,                                 =    3°-37,
     for   K„     u' =    h0-u'-\v,                  for   Kj,  tt"  = 2h9—2v",
                       =   196°-93,                                  =   213"-01,
                  vH   =  um—(s0
                                      — p«) ,                     ui = «» + (s0 —p,) + T,
                       =   9°-53,                                     =  217u-67,
                                      u, =    -h0+\*=          169°-37..
      *  '
           Manual for Tidal Observations,' by Major Baird.                Taylor and Francis, Fleet
   Street, 1886.
      +   In making      these reductions     I have  really used the value of N for     July J, 1887,
   because    I am     operating on tidal prediction* made for the whole year 1887, which
   were doubtless made with mean N lor that year.                    The difference is almost insen
   sible.

    334                                        Prof. G. H. Darwin.                                                   [June      19,
    We have already                  shown                in        B the way of computing                             IT,      and
    II = 1034 .•
    i=                          -
      In C and D we have shown how to compute j, i, I, &ndj = + 6°-46,
          + 6°-52,    1   =          0°-97.
      By the formula in B, with                            a»   =        86°-97        for     6   semi-lunations,
                                         in   =    2h0—         2f" + «» = «"+*«
                                              =    299°-97              = -60°-03.
      By the formula in D, with                         f}m
                                                                =   87°-52        for   XIII quarter-lunar             periods.
                                                  0   = 2h,-v'+l+p»,
                                                      = 294°11 = -65°-89.
      By the formula in B, viz. : —
                                              U cos       <j>   =       n   +   \n{" C08 W,
                                              Ubiu      0       =           X»f" sin w.
   With log \„ =                9-2517         for    6   semi-lunations, and with the above values
of n, f", •> :—
                          <j>   = -6°-40,                           (
                                                                    +
                                                                    )            log    U      = 0-0464.
      By the formula in D, viz —                      :
                                              T   cos           = i'—pn              cos   0,
                                              T   sin     Y'    =               p»   sin     0,
with log        pn   = 9'4618 for                     XIII          quarter-lunar periods, and with the
above values         of
                      f         and       0   :—
                y    =     -18°           35,                                    (+) logT =             9   9241.
                                     (r.) Final Evaluation                                 of   M2.
      From (j)        B„ = +38                    47,               A„ = -30               58,         tan      =     ?=.
                                                                                                                      A„
                                                                                                                            ;
B,„    is   +   and AM          is   —
                                     ,        so that fm lies in second quadrant;                                   whence
                                         £. = r-51°-51 =                             128°-49.
Then                                          H*. =         —       .   Bm cosec     f     „   ;
  * As the Indian tide predicting instrument takes no account of solar
                                                                          parallax,                                             I
should in reality have done better to take n as unity. But of course this considera-
t   ion does not apply to real observations.

1890.]          Harmonic Analysis            of Tidal      Observations.                335
whence, on reducing from inches to feet,
                                     H„ =     3 98  ft.
Also            *,„ =   f„ + um =       128°-49 + 203°-60      = 332°09,
where the value of     um    is taken from (q).
                      (s.)    Final Evaluation of N and L.
   Taking the values of P, Q, R, S from (i),
f„H„ sin   (£„-j)   =   -P =      -1072,         f„H, sin (£,+/) = +Q = +0               66,
f-H.  cos  (f.-j)   =   -S     = +      7-16,    fraH/cos             =   -R =     + 122.
         f»—   lies in   4th  quad.,                 &+j      ^es iQ 1"* quad.   ;
whence                            f„— ; = -56°27.
Then                     H» =     i. cosec (f.-j) x (-P)            ;
whence, on reducing from inches to feet,
                                      H, = 104 ft.
                             j
Again, since from (q) = + 6°-54, we have f„ = -49" 73 = 310° 27,
and  «r, = Sn+u* = 310°-27+9°-53 = 319°-80, where the value of w» is
taken from (q).
   Turning to the second pair of equations,
                                     f, +j =    28°-4.
Then                      H, =     I    sec     +;) X ( -R)       ;
whence, on reducing from inches to feet,
                                      H, =    0-11 ft.
   Again, since      j=      +6°'5,      we    have     f; =   210-9,   and    nr(=fi + wj
= 2i°-9 + 217°-7 =      239° 6, where the valne            of u;  is taken from (q).
                     (t.) Final Evaluation of            S3 and K3
   From (k)         B, = +3-62,               A, = +2108;               tan f, = B'   j
                                                                                   A,
B, and A, are + ,     so   that   f,  lies in lrt quadrant      ;
 whence                                 £, =  9° 71.

336                                  Prof. G. H. Darwin.                                                [June 19,
Then
whence, with log U already found in (q) as 0 0464, and, reducing
inches to feet,
                                               H, =         1-60   ft.
  Again              k,   = r.+0 = 9°-71-6°-40 =                                 3°-31,
where the value of        <j>   is   taken from (q).
  Lastly,
            H" = 0272H, =                     0    44 ft.,               and c" =«,           =   3*.
  The factor 0'272        is    an absolute constant.
                     (u.) Final Evaluation                           of    Kls     O,   P.
  Taking the values of                l(W-Z),                            Y) from (p),
                TH' sin         (f                     =     |(W-Z)            = —11/6,
                TH'cos(r              +   t'-f)= -i(X                    + V=           -647;
f'+i—       lies in third quadrant, and
                     f          +<U+2666>-           V-   = r+61*-2 =             241°-2.
Then since, from (q),     = — 18°-35, we have
                                      >f           =                                    f+i          2220   8
                                                                                                            ;   and
since from (q) =i6°-52, therefore   = 216°-3 whence         f'                 ;
                     *>   =
                          f          +   «'    = 216°3          +   196°-9     =   53°-2,
where the value of u             is   taken from (q).
  Then
                          H'rrM^I^cosecCr'
                                                                           +   i-f),
whence, with log     T     already found in (q) as                         9   9241, and          reducing from
inches to feet,
                                               H' =         1-33 ft.
Also           ~HP
                     = 0-331H' =                   0   44,           and                  =   53°.
   The factor 0-331        is    an absolute constant.
   We now have to compute
              L   = ^(X + Y) tan                       ±e   +f'H'    cos   (f    +   1)   tan ^,
               M=     tfW-Z)                   tan   £«-f'H'         sin (£'+        i)   tan J*,

1890.]         Harmonic Analysis       of Tidal   Observations.          337
where log tan \e = 9'0677, an absolute constant for all times and
places. With the valnes of          f and |(X + Y) and i(W— Z) given
above in (q) and (p), and with the valnes of H' and
               —
                                                           f + i just found,
there results               ,
                 L=    -0-495,                  M = -0-214.
   Now              f0H,8m (£,_{) =      _£(W + Z) + L,
                    ioB0 cos   (X,-i) =    i(X-T) +M.
   We have found in (p)
           *(W + Z) = -4-23,                    MX-Y)    = +6-30,
so that
     f.H, sin           = +3-73,              f0H» cos (&-») =   + 6"09.
Whence ?„— t lies in the first quadrant, and
                                 £,-1 =  31°-50.
Then                H. =     \ ft(X-Y) + M] sec (&_*),
whence,   reducing from inches to feet,
                                  H„ = 0-69 ft.
   Again,
        = f„+«„ =    (r„-i)+*    + "» = 31°-50+6°-52 + 3<,-37 = 410-39,
where the value of    tt0 is taken from (q).
              (v.)   Final Reduction of Mean Water Mark.
   We subtracted 99 inches from all the heights hefore using them,
and the mean of the heights was then + 3'51 inches. Hence mean
water is ] 02'51 inches, or 8-54 feet above the datum of the original
tidal observations.

338                                           Prof. G. H. Darwin.                                        [June 19,
                                        (w.) Results of Reduction.
                                                                                   Error of         present ealc.
                                                                                            in inches and
                                                        Mean of   9   yrs. obs.                   minutes.
          Mean water, 8 54 ft.                              8223                       4    in.
                M   fH        = 3 98 ft.                    4043                  J         in. too small.
                M»U           = 332°                         330°                      4m too     fast.
                     =
                s fH =              1-60 ft.                1-625                      -\   in. too small.
                *M«                     3°                    3°                       Nil.
                K   /H        =     0 44      ft.           0-405
                                                            352°
                                                                                       ¦J
                                                                                       22™
                                                                                            in. too large.
                                                                                                  too fast.
                N   / H == 320°
                           104 ft.                          0997                       ^    in. too large.
                    I   «:                                   313°                      llm     too fast.
               L              il ft.
                    / H* == 240°    O                       0- 088                j         in. too large.
                    1                                       308°                       2h 18™     too slow.
                              =
               jr
               Kl   /H  1-c   =
                                    1-33
                                     53°
                                              ft.            1-396
                                                              45°
                                                                                       §
                                                                                       32m
                                                                                            in. too small.
                                                                                               too fast.
               0    f   H     .-=   069 ft.                 0-658                      £    in. too large.
                    I*        =     41°                      48°                       2!*m     too slow.
               p    /   H = 044 ft.                         0-404                           in. too large.
                    1*    =53°                               43°                       40m     too fast.
   The second column        given because,   is the calculation had been
                                                                       if
conducted by rigorous    methods   instead  of approximately, my results
should have agreed very nearly* with these.        The causes of several
of the discrepancies are explicable.     The error of mean water mark
is due to the necessity for neglecting the annual and semi-annual tides
in short series of observations.       The error in the height of Sj
                                                                                                                    1, is
     a
partly  due  to my taking  n  =  1*034  instead of putting     equal to                            it
as    virtually done in the Indian tidal instrument.
     is                                                   If had taken                             I
II =      1,
           Ishould have had H, = l-65 nearly.         The error in phase
in Kj       a necessary incident of the shortness of the series of
               is
observations.    The error of N must be due to the shortness of the
series, which has not permitted an adequate elimination of the
evectional and variational tides. The tide            only about an inch    L     is
in height, and accuracy of result could not be expected.
   The magnitude of the error in time in the diurnal tides         disap                                     is
pointing, but       clear that the length of observation has not been
                        it    is
sufficient to disentangle the                       O   tide from the        Kj    tide.           It may be re
marked also that an error of                        1°   in phase makes twice                     as much differ-
  *  I do not know the exact values of the constants                              used in the Bombay              Tide
Table, which has been used as representing observation.

1890.]              Harmonic Analysis    of Tidal   Observations.                           339
ence    in time with the diurnal tides as with the semi-diurnal.                            The
errors of    P fall under the same category as those of Kg.
     Lastly it is probable that all these errors would have    been
                            I
sensibly diminished if had subtracted 103 inches from the heights
                                   I
all through instead of 99, and know that this is to some extent the
case.
                             (x.) Verification.
   In a calculation of this kind some gross error of principle may have
been committed, such, for example, as imputing to some of the *'s a
wrong sign ; and this is the kind of mistake which is easily over
looked in a mere verification of arithmetical processes.      It is well,
therefore, to test whether the tide heights and times are actually
given by the computed constants.          This is conveniently done by
selecting some three  or  four tides from amongst those from which the
reductions have been made, and it makes the calculation much shorter
if we pick out cases in which it is H. or L.W. within a few minutes
of noon.
     For example, in the presentcase it was L.W. on February 16
(day 46) at 0h 7m p.m., and the height was 4 ft. 0 in. ; again, it was
H.W. on March 25 (day 83) at 0h 3m p.m., and the height was
13 ft. 3 in.
  Now, if U denotes the value of any equilibrium argument whose
value at the epoch, 0h, January 1, was denoted in (q) by it, and if
A« denotes the height of mean sea-level above datum, the expression
for the height of water is : — ¦
     h =   K + f«SmcoB     (Um-KM) + B,cos   (U.-k.) +i"W                cos     (TT'-k")
           + f „H, cos ( U.-k.) + f„H/ cos ( Ui-       *,)   +
                                                             f   'H'   cos   W
                                                                             (    -   *')
           H-foHoCos (JJ0— *») +Hj,cos (JJp—icp).
  The time of H.W. depends on a formula involving the sines of
the same angles in place of cosines.
  Since we have chosen cases where           H. or L.W. at noon, the
                                             it   is
IPs exceed the it's by an exact number of days' motion.
   The evaluation of the separate terms may be conveniently made by
means of an ordinary nautical traverse table, where (neglecting the
decimal    point) fH        isrepresented    by the " Distance," and
fH cos (17—     k)  given by "Latitude," and fHsin(CT—
                     is                                        by "De            K)
parture."
   If we know the time of H. or L.W. within 20m or so, the follow
ing calculation will give the true time and height. The computa
tion applies to the first of the two cases where we know that there
should be       L.W. at about 0h of day 46.
                a                                    The increments of
argument are computed from the Table G, and the k'b are subtracted
either     actual subtraction or
           by                        addition of 2ir— <c.
                                    by

    340                 Harmonic Analysis             of Tidal        Observations.            [June 19,
                           m2.                              N.             L.                      0.         P.
                                                        -
Increment in 40"1
           Ditto 6*
                           464 7
                         -146-8
                                               78-9
                                                11-8
                                                            5f -9
                                                        -224-7        -
                                                                      -452
                                                                            67-9
                                                                                -7     39-4
                                                                                        5-9
                                                                                                 425 3
                                                                                               -152   -2  (see  K,)
         Ditto    464       318 -4              90-7    -282-6         -520-6          45-3       273 1      -45   3
                •  —       203 6              213 0           9-5         217-7      196 -9-        3-4       169-4
             —   r =
                           522 0
                        -332     1    -3  3
                                              803-7
                                              -3-3
                                                        -273
                                                        +   40-2
                                                                 1    -302
                                                                       +  120-4
                                                                                -9   242-2
                                                                                    -53    1   -  276 -5
                                                                                                   41-4
                                                                                                              124
                                                                                                            — 53
                                                                                                                   1
                                                                                                                   1
            TT-K   =        189-9 -3-3 300         4    -232-9         -182-5        189-1        235-1        71 -0
            U—K =          * + 10 -8 -60                  x-53          ir-3          7T-r9      *- + 55       71
                       f.          H.       fH.        U-k.         fHcos(F-e).              fHsin(17-e).
                                                                        +          —             +         —
       c
            M2
            S2
                      1-03
                      1 0
                                 8-98
                                 1-60
                                            4-10
                                            1-60
                                                      *
                                                         -
                                                         + 10°
                                                             3       1-60
                                                                                 4 04                    0 71
                                                                                                         0-08
      ¦i-i
            K,        0-80       0-44       0-35         -60         0 18                                0SO
            N         1 03       1-04       1 07      w-63                       0-64          0 86
           {L         1 03       0-11       O  il     *¦-    3                   O  il         0-01
                                                                  +  1-78     - 4-79         + 0-87   -1-09
                                                                              +  1-78                 +0-87
                                                                     A5 =     -3    01         Bj   ' -0   -22
                      0-915      1-33       1-22      w-     9                   1 21                    0 19
                      0-86       0-69       0-59      »r-55                      0 34                    0 48
                      1 00       0 44       0-44           71        0-14                      0-42
                                                                  + 0 14      -1-55         + 0-42    - 0-67
                                                                              + 0 14                   +0-48
                                                                     A,    -   -1-41            B, =   -0   25
                                                                    JA,           0-35         iB,=    -019
                                                             Aj + iA,             3-36 B.+     iB!=-0 35
               Time   -   -120™    ( ?I±*5»\     =  -120"      x —     =    -12" = 11*      48° a.m.
                                   VAs  + iA^                    336
                                          Tabular time =       0h 7m   p.k.
                                                  Error    = -19™.
                                              A, + A,  -   -4-42
                                        Mean water         +8-54
                                              Height =        4-12
                                     Height L.W                    4 ft. 1 in.
                                     Tabular height                4      0
                                     Error                             +1
         In the second            case referred       to    above,       the     calculated height is
     13 ft. 6 in., and the tabulated height 13 ft. 3 in., and the error in time
     is — I5m.
         These results are as good as might be expected, and, considered as
     a prediction,        would     be amply sufficient          for navigational            purposes.

 1890.]     On the Central Motor Innervation          of the  Larynx.        341
 XII. "An     Experimental Investigation of the Central Motor
      Innervation of the Larynx. Part I. Excitation Experi
      ments." By Felix Semon, M.D., F.R.C.P., and Victor
      Horsley, B.S., F.R.S.             (From the Laboratory of the
      Brown Institution.) Received June 17, 1890.
                                   (Abstract.)
   In this paper the authors communicate the first part of a series of
researches in which they have been engaged from time to time since
1886, on the nature of the representation of the intrinsic laryngeal
movements in the central nervous system.
   Briefly stated, the anatomical arrangement of the laryngeal nerve
centres they believe to be as follows : —
         a. Cortical areas of representation.
         b. Connecting fibres in the corona radiata and the internal
                capsule.
         c. Bulbar areas of representation.
   So also the physiological differentiation existing in the functional
activity of these centres and fibres they regard as to be viewed from
two standpoints —
                1. The phonatory laryngeal movements.
                2. The respiratory laryngeal      movements.
.  Of these the former are shown to be especially represented in the
cortex, and the latter more particularly in the bulb.
   After a complete historical resume of the experimental, and also
clinical, work already done on the subject, the authors describe and
discuss the experimental procedure adopted by them, with especial
reference to the complications          introduced in the employment of
varying intensity    of  stimulation,    depth of anaesthesia, species, indi
vidual peculiarities, and age of the animal.
   The results are then arranged in order, according to the part
stimulated, beginning with the cortex cerebri and ending with the
bulb.
   It  is shown that in the cortex cerebri there is represented the
phonatory movement of adduction,* and that this is more completely
developed, the higher the animal is in the scale of evolution.
   Further, that in the neighbouring regions of the cortex the respi
ratory movements of the larynx, acceleration, intensification, and
slowing, are also represented.        Only in ono kind of animal, viz., the
cat, were a focus and area of pure cortical representation of abduction
      * Discovered by Ferrier and accurately localised in the dog by Krause.

342                 Prof. J.  A. Ewing.        Contributions    to the    [June 19,
observed.         Notice is taken of the meaning of the acceleration or
polypncea thus evoked, and of its relation to the thermotaxic function
suggested.
    Excitation of the corona radiata and the internal capsule resulted
in the mapping out of the fibres conducting the above motor effects
downwards, and it is suggested that the localisation by previous
observers of basal centres for the functions above mentioned is
possibly to be accounted for differently in the light of these
observations.
    Finally, the results of exploring the floor of the fonrth ventricle hy
excitation are described, so far as intrinsic effects were produced in the
larynx. The representation of adduction and abduction movements
respectively was thus localised.
    In conclusion, the relations of the various              parts of this central
mechanism to one another are shortly discussed.
 XIII.      "Contributions to the Molecular Theory of Induced
        Magnetism."          By J. A. Ewing, F.R.S., Professor of Engi
        neering in University College, Dundee.                 Received June 18,
        1890.
    As the facts of induced magnetism            become better known, increasing
interest      attaches to molecular theories and increasing difficulty
attends the theories that are current.                  Weber's fundamental con
ception that the molecules of iron or nickel or cobalt are always
magnets, and that the process of magnetising consists in turning
them       from many directions            towards one direction,         has been
 strongly confirmed            by    the    now      well established fact that
 there is a true saturation            value, a finite limit to the intensity
 of magnetism, which may be reached or very closely approached
by using a strong magnetic force.*                  Without going further back,
to     enquire      (with Ampere) how the molecules come to be
 magnets, we may take this conception as the natural starting point
 of a theory.       But when we go on to examine the conditions of con
 straint on the part of the rotatable molecules which have been sug
 gested to      make the theory square with what is known about per
 meability,      about residual magnetism and other effects of magnetic
 hysteresis,     about the effects of stress, of temperature, of mechanical
 vibration,      and so forth, we find a mass of arbitrary assumptions
 which still leave the subject bristling with difficulties.             Many of the
 phenomena         suggest, for instance, the idea that there is a quasi?
   • Ewing      and  Low, '
                            Phil. Trans.,' 1889,  A, p. 221.  See also H. E. J. 0. du
        '
 Bois,    Phil. Mag.,' April, 1890.

1890.]           Molecular Theory of Induced Magnetism.                           343
frictional resistance which opposes the turning of the molecular
magnets ; this notion lends itself well to account for the most obvious
effects of magnetic hysteresis and the reduction of hysteresis by
vibration. On the other hand, it conflicts with the fact that even the
feeblest magnetic force induces some magnetism.                  My object in this
paper    is to  refer   to another   (and   not  at all  arbitrary) condition of
constraint which not only suffices to explain all the phenomena of
hysteresis without any notion of friction, but seems to have in it abun
dant capability to account for every complexity of magnetic quality.
    In describing Weber's theory, Maxwell points out that, if each
molecular magnet were perfectly free to turn, the slightest magnetic
force would suffice to bring the molecules into complete parallelism,
and thus to produce magnetic saturation.                  He continues, " This,
however, is not the case.        The molecules do not turn with their axes
parallel to the force, and this is either because each molecule is
acted on by a force tending to preserve it in its original direction, or
because an equivalent effect is produced by the mutual action of the
entire system of molecules. Weber adopts the former of these sup
positions as the simplest."*
    Weber supposes a directing force to act in the original direction of
the molecule's axis which continues to act as a restoring force in that
direction after the molecule is disturbed.          This assumed constraint is
quite arbitrary ; moreover, if it were the only constraint, there would
be no residnal magnetism when the deflecting force was withdrawn.
Accordingly, Maxwell modifies Weber's theory by introducing the
 further assumption that when the angle of deflection exceeds a
certain limit the molecule begins to take permanent set.                     The de
 velopment    of this,   however,  does  not  agree well   with   the  facts.
    The alternative which is offered in the sentence I have quoted from
 Maxwell was not followed up by him, and seems to have been very
 generally overlooked, notwithstanding its obvious freedom from
 arbitrary assumption.          Several writers, notably Wiedemannt and
 Hughes,J     have    recognised the inter-molecnlar         magnetic forces by
suggesting that the molecnles, when unacted on by any magnetising
force from outside, may form closed rings, or chains, " so as to satisfy
their natural attraction by the shortest path."§ But Wiedemann ex
pressly postulates a frictional resistance to rotation, which will prevent
this armngement from being more than approximately                    attained, and
which may be more or less overcome by vibration. |j
   * Maxwell, 'Electricity and Magnetism,' vol. 2,
                                                    § 443.
      Wiedemann, ' Galvanismua,' 2nd ed., vol. 2 (1), p. 373.
   t Hughes, ' Roy. 8oc. Proc.,' May 10, 1883.
   § Hughes (loc. ext.).
                   '
   || Wiedemann,     Phil. Mag.,' July, 1886, p. 52; ' Elektricitat,' vol. 3. §§ 784—
785.

  344                Prof.   J.  A. Ewiug.      Contributions    to the    [June 19,
      I  lately commented on the fact that soft iron and other magnetic
  metals (notably nickel nnder particular conditions of strain)* show
  a remarkably close approach to instability at certain stages in the
  magnetising or demagnetising process.f                When the magnetic force
  reaches a particular value, the rate of change of magnetism with
 respect to change of force may become enormous.                   Referring to this
 in a paper which has just been published,}: Mr. A. E. Kennelly has
 reverted to the idea of chains of magnetic molecules held together
 by the inter-molecular magnetic forces, and contends that when such
 a chain is ruptured by applying a sufficiently strong external mag
 netic force it will fall to pieces throughout, and the molecular
 magnets which compose the chain will take their alignment suddenly.
                                                                          " of
 He accordingly sketches what he calls a " chain-theory                         mag
 netisation and an adaptation of the theory of Hughes, in                      which,
 however,       he postulates      an elastic resistance to the rotation       of the
 molecules       in addition to the constraint         afforded    by their mutual
 magnetic forces.          Mr. Kennelly's remarks are highly interesting and
 suggestive ;      but   I do not think (for reasons which will appear im
 mediately) that the notion of closed magnetic chains can be main
 tained as a general account of the molecular structure of unmagne-
 tised iron.
     I  have experimented        on the subject by making a model molecular
 structure consisting         of  a large number of short steel bar magnets,
 strongly magnetised, each pivoted like a compass needle upon a
 sharp vertical centre and balanced to swing horizontally. We
 cannot readily imitate in a model the two degrees of rotational
freedom possessed           by actual molecular magnets, but a group of
magnets swinging in one plane gives a sufficiently good general idea
of the nature of the equilibrium which is brought about by inter-
molecular forces, and the manner in which that equilibrium is dis
turbed when an external force is applied. The model is very easily
made. Each magnet is a piece of steel wire about one-tenth of an
inch in diameter and two inches long (fig. 1), bent in the middle to
bring the centre of gravity below the point of support.                    The hole
or rather recess       for  the  pivot is made by a centre punch : the pivot
itself is a sewing needle fixed upright in a small base plato which is
punched out of a sheet of lead.               The bars swing with but little
friction, and their pole strength is sufficient to make the mutual
forces      quite mask the earth's directive force when they are set
moderately near one another.             The group is arranged on a board on
which lines are drawn to facilitate regularity in grouping when that
   • See a paper by    H. Nagooka, ' Journal of the Science College of the University
of Tokio,' vol. 2, 1888, p. 30 k
   t 'Journal of the Institution of Electrical Engineers,' No. 84, 1890, pp. 38—40.
   J  '
        The Electrician,' June 7th and 13th, 1890.

   1890.]           Molecular Theory of Induced Magnetism.                         345
                                        Fig. l.
                                         X
  is wanted, and the board slips into a large frame or open sided fiat
   box wound round the top, bottom, and two sides with a coil through
  which an adjustable current may he passed to expose the group to a
  nearly homogeneous external magnetic force. The coil is wound in
  a single very open layer, through which a sufficiently good view of the
  group inside is obtained.*        A liquid rheostat with a sliding terminal
  is used to secure continuity in varying the magnetic force.                    It is
  scarcely necessary to add that the magnetic force which is applied to
  the group is too weak to have any material effect on the magnetism
  of individual bars. It alters their alignment only, just as a magnetic
  force alters the alignment of Weber's molecular magnets.
      When a number of these magnets are grouped either iu a regular
  pattern or at random, and are left after disturbance to come to rest
 free from external magnetic force, they of course assume a form
  which has no resultant magnetic moment, provided the number be
 sufficiently great — but it is apparent that they do not arrange
 themselves in closed chains.            Any such configuration would in
 general be unstable.         Many stable configurations admit of being
 formed, and if the magnets are again disturbed and left to settle
 the chances are much against any one configuration immediately
 repeating itself. One general characteristic of these configurations
 is that they contain lines consisting of two, three, or more magnets,
each member of a line being strongly controlled                       by its next
neighbours       in  that line, and but little influenced by neighbours
which lie off the line on either side. Thus, if there are two magnets
simply, they form (as might be anticipated) a highly stable pair,
thus : —
    *
      In showing the experiments, the board with the magnets on it may, of course,
be placed in clear view above the coil ; the    il is then made larger, or a stronger
current is used.
    VOL. XLVIII.                                                         2 B

 346             Prof.  J.  A. Ewing.      Contributions to  the   [June   19,
    With three magnets, two form a line along one side of the triangle
 joining the fixed centres, and the third lies parallel, or nearly so, facing
 the opposite way.       Four magnets will usually form two lines with
 directions which lie nearly along two sides of the quadrilateral, but
 diagonally opposite magnets may pair, leaving the others unattached.
 Suppose them set at the corners of a rectangle with unequal sides;
 they may lie in any of these forms —
                                                   /      \
                                                   \      \
if the inequality in distance be not too great. All these configura
tions are stable, and the condition of least energy, while making the
first of them the most probable, does not prevent the occasional
formation of the others. In       a long line, the  same  condition leads in
general to this formation —
but    it is by no means uncommon to find          a line broken into two or
more sections, thus —
    Seven magnets grouped so that the centres of six form a regular
hexagon, with one in the middle, have a great variety of possible
stable configurations, of which these are examples : —
                                     Fig. 2.
       /    \              / \                 \     \            /     \
     '
         -\            /^\                   V   \ \ / / / /\
    Experimental study of the forms which may be assumed by
groups, and of the vibrations which may be transmitted               through
groups, is interesting, but to pursue it would be beside my present
 purpose.     In all cases, the configuration assumed by a group is such

1880.]        Molecular Theory        of Induced   Magnetism.                        347
that there is stability for small displacements, but different positions
of the group may be stable in different degrees, and if members of
the group be turned through a sufficiently great angle, they becomo
unstable, .and fall into a new position of stability, bringing about
a partial reconstruction      of the lines that characterise the group.
Special interest attaches to square patterns, from the fact that iron
and nickel (probably cobalt also) crystallise in the cubic system.
In a square pattern of many members, we find, in general, lines
running parallel with all sides of the square when the group settles
without directive force after a disturbance.
   Let the group, or collection of groups, be subjected to an external
magnetic force, <§, gradually increasing from zero. The first effect
is to produce a stable deflection of all members except those which
lie exactly along or opposite to the direction of >§.       This results in
giving a small resultant moment to the group (assuming that there
was none to begin with), which increases at a uniform or very nearly
 uniform rato as      increases.   This corresponds to the first stage in
 the magnetisation of iron or other magnetic metal (a, fig. 3). The
 initial susceptibility is a small finite quantity, and is sensibly uniform
 for very small values of <§.
    Suppose that, without going beyond this stage, we remove            ; the
 molecular magnets, not having been deflected beyond the limit of
 stability, simply return to their initial places, and there is no residual
 magnetism.      This, again, agrees with the fact that no residual
magnetism is produced by very feeble magnetising forces.      Up to
this point, there has been no magnetic hysteresis. But let the value
of >§ be increased until any part of the group becomes unstable, and
hysteresis immediately comes into play.     At the same time, there
begins to be a marked augmentation of susceptibility — that is to say,
a marked increase in the rate at which aggregate resultant moment is
acquired.    It is not difficult to arrange groups in which the state of
instability occurs with one and the same value of >§ throughout the
 group. But, in general, we shall have different elementary magnets,
 or different lines of them, reaching instability with different values
 of        The range of     >§,
                             however, which suffices to bring about
 instability throughout the whole, or nearly the whole, of the members
 in most groups   is not large   we, therefore, find in the action of the
                                  ;
 model   aclose analogy to the second stage (6, fig.     of the process of
                                                         3)
 magnetisation, in which the magnetism rises more or less suddenly,
 as well as to the first stage (a).
    During the second stage (6), the magnetic elements fall for the
 most part into lines which agree more or less exactly with the
 direction of       If, at the end of this stage, we remove     we find    >§,
 that a   very large   proportion  of the  aggregate  moment which   the
 group has acquired remains       in other words, there
                                  ;                        great deal of
                                                              is   a
                                                                       2   B     2

residual magnetism.     To take an instance, suppose we have a group
lying initially as in fig. 4, and apply a magnetic force, <£>, in the
direction sketched, the first stage (a) deflects all the molecular
                                 Fig. 4.
                   !
                         \
                    \     \
                      \    \

1
   890.]         Molecular Theory         of Induced            Magnetism.             349
magnets slightly, without making any of them become unstable ; the
second stage (6) brings the molecules into the general direction
shown in fig. 5 or rather that is the direction they assume when
                                          Fiq.   5.
                                                        \1         \
                              1      \        \
                                                         l V
                                                                    \
                                                           \         \
                       \        \       \        \           1
                                                              .       \
                                                   \          \
                      -
                          \      i         j
                                            \
                                                    \
                                                      \
                                                                \
                                                                 \
                                                                        i
                                                                         \
                            \      \
                                                       it
is removed, and the residual magnetism contributed by the group is
 then the sum of their moments resolved along >§.                         When   is acting,
 the components along <§ are Blightly greater, for the molecules
 are then (stably) deflected through a small angle towards the line
 of $.
     Let ¦§ be further increased — we now have the third stage (c,
 lig. 3), which consists in the closer approach to saturation that is
 caused by the molecules being more nearly pulled into exact line
  with      (fig. 6).      Whether there will be instability during the
 deflection of them from the lines of fig. 5 will depend on the close
  ness of the poles, and on the inclination of the lines of fig. 5 to the
  direction of >§ (see below).             In some groups, saturation will be
 complete   with   a  finite   value   of   >& ; in others, it will only be closely
 approximated to.         In magnetising any actual specimen of iron, we
  have, of course, to deal with a multitude of groups the lines to
  which lie at very various inclinations to >&.                          If we remove the
  force •§ at any point in stage (c), we find very little, if any, more

350              Prof.  J. A. Ewing.    Contributions  to the    [June   19
                                   Fig. 6.
residual   magnetism than was found at the end of stage (6).           The
ratio of residual to induced magnetism is a maximum about the end
of stage (6), and diminishes as stage (c) proceeds.           This, again,
agrees completely with the observed facts.
    There is some hysteresis during the removal (whether complete or
partial) and re-application of magnetic force, because (provided we
 have enough groups to deal with) there will be some lines of
 elements which pass to and fro through a condition of instability
 during the removal and re-application of the force.          For certain
 inclinations of the line the movements are not reversible.
     Suppose, next, that having applied and removed a strong force <§,
 leaving strong residual polarity, we begin slowly to reverse 4?.       At
 first, the effects are slight ; presently, however, instability begins,
 and, as the force is increased within a narrow range, we find the
 molecules all upset.      This is followed by a stage of nearly elastic
 deflection as saturation is approached. Thus, the well-known general
 characteristics of cyclic processes are all reproduced in the model
 (see fig. 8 below).
    Again, a small repeated cyclic change of       4? superposed   upon a
constant    value  of  4? produces small   changes of resultant moment,
which are reversible if the change of    4? is very small.   This, as Lord

1890.]         Molecular Theory       of Induced    Magnetism.            351
Rayleigh has shown,* is what happens in a magnetic metal, and the
susceptibility with respect to small cyclic changes is small in the
model, just as it is in the actual solid.
   The chief facts of permeability and retentiveness, and hysteresis
generally, are therefore at once explicable by supposing that Weber's
molecular magnets are constrained by no other forces than those due
to their own mutual magnetic attractions and repulsions.             No arbi
trary constraining forces are required.          In  the  model the centres of
rotation are fixed ; in regard to the actual solid we may make an
equivalent supposition, namely that the distances between the mole
cular centres do not change (except in so far as they may be changed
by strain).
   Hysteresis, then, is not the result of any quasi-frictional resistance
to molecular rotations; it occurs whenever a molecule turns from
one stable position of rest to another through an unstable con
dition.    "When it is forced to return it again passes through a
condition of instability. This process, considered mechanically, is not
reversible ; the forces are different for the same displacement going and
coming, and there is dissipation of energy.           In the model the energy
thus expended sets the little bars swinging, and their swings take
some time to subside.         In the actual solid the energy which the
molecular magnet loses as it swings through unstable positions
generates eddy currents in surrounding matter.             Let the magnets of
the model be furnished with air-vanes to damp their swings, and the
correspondence is complete.
   A regular group of elementary magnets, especially when furnished
¦with air-vanes, gives a good illustration of what has been called
magnetic viscosity.     When the imposed force >§ reaches a critical
value one of the outer members of the group becomes unstable, and
swings slowly round; its next neighbours, finding their stability
weakened, follow suit, and the disturbance spreads through the
group in a way eminently snggestive of those phenomena of time-lag
                            I
in magnetisation which have described in a former paper. | .
   The model shows equally well other magnetic phenomena which
presumably depend on the inertia of the molecules, such as the fact
that a given force causes more magnetic induction when suddenly
applied than when gradually applied, and leaves less residual
magnetism when suddenly removed than when gradually removed.
   The well known effects of mechanical vibration in augmenting
magnetic susceptibility and reducing retentiveness are readily explic
able when we consider that vibration will cause periodic changes in
the distances between molecular centres.            This has not only a direct
influence in making the molecular magnets respond more easily to
                        * 'Phil. Mag.,' March, 1887.
                          '
                       t    Boy. Soc. Proc.,' June, 1889.

  352               Prof.   J. A.  Ewing.        Contributions    to the    [June 19,
  changes of magnetic          force by reducing their stability during the
  intervals when they         recede   from each other, but tends indirectly
  towards the same result by setting them swinging.
     The effects of temperature which are common to the three magnetic
  metals may be stated thus : — Let any moderate magnetising force be
  applied not strong enough to produce anything like an approach to
  magnetic saturation, and let the temperature be raised.                    Then the
  permeability increases until the temperature reaches a certain (high)
  critical value, at which, almost suddenly, there is an almost complete
  disappearance of magnetic equality.             As regards the first effect, it is
 clear that an increase of permeability is to be expected from the
 theory ; expansion with rise of temperature involves a separation of
 the molecular centres, and therefore a reduction of stability. As
 regards the almost sudden loss of susceptibility which occurs at a
 high temperature, it may do no harm to hazard a rather wild con
jecture.      We may suppose the molecular magnets to be swinging
 more or less, the violence of the swings increasing as the temperature
 rises, until finally it develops into rotation.          Should this happen, all
 trace of polarity would of course disappear.              The conjecture that the
 molecular      magnets oscillate more and more as the temperature
 rises, is at least supported by the fact (carefully investigated by
 Hopkmson* in iron and nickel ; data for cobalt also have lately been
supplied      by du Boisf) that under strong magnetic forces rise
 of temperature reduces magnetism ; for with strong forces the mole
 cular magnets are already ranged so that their mean direction is nearly
parallel to >§ ; hence the earlier effect of heat (to diminish stability and
 facilitate alignment) does not tell, and the increased swinging simply
results in reducing the mean value for each molecule of its moment
resolved parallel the magnetising force.
    Before referring to effects of stress we may consider shortly the
stability of a pair or line of magnets, treating each as a pair of poles
subject to the law of inverse squares.                Take first a single pair of
equal magnets        with   centres   at  C and   C.   The poles P, P' would lie
in the line CC, but for the imposed force >&, which produces a deflec
tion CCT' or C'CP = 0.
    Let a be the angle which •§ makes with the line of centres, m the
pole strength, and r the half length of the magnetic axis of each
magnet.       The deflecting moment is
                                  2§mr sin (a— 0),
and the restoring moment is
                                        pp'  2>
          • ' Phil. Trans.,' 1889, A, p. 443 j 'Eoy. Soc. Proc.,' June, 1888.
          t ' Phil. Mag.,' April, 1890.

1890.]        Molecular Theory              of Induced Magnetism.                       3o3
                                            Fig.   7.
CN being drawn normal to PP'. The restoring moment at first
increases with 0, but passes a maximum at a value of 0 which
depends on the relation of r to the distance between the centres. The
condition of equilibrium is
                                  2$wrBm    (.-*)       =
                                                                   '
                                                            PP72
and as    and 0 are increased the equilibrium becomes neutral, that is
         <§
to say, the condition of instability is reached, when
                         d
                             I 2-gmr sin U-0) ]             = ± ™9°N
                     d0 I                     J               d0       pp3'
   These two equations serve to determine the value of    and of   at             <£>   0
which instability occurs. If we have to deal with        long line of         a
magnets instead of    single pair, we have to write 2m3 instead of m2
                             a
in the restoring moment.
   A considerable amount of    stable deflection is possible when tho
distance between the poles     not small compared with r.
                                       is                    When the
direction of  •£> not much
                    is         inclined to CC (that is, when a has a
value approaching    there   0)no instability.
                                       is       In rows having various
inclinations to   the first to become unstable as        increased will <§   is
be that for which a —     equal to ^r.
                              0   is

 354             Prof.  J. A. Ewing.      Contributions    to the   [June  1S>,
    If a, the half distance between neighbouring poles in the undeflected
 position,  be small compared    with r, there is but little deflection before
 instability occurs, and in that case, provided a be not small nor nearly
equal to ir, the occurrence of instability is defined by the condition
                                d  ™      =    0,
                               dO  PP'J
 which is satisfied when tan0 =       -i=; 0    being the inclination of   PP
                                       v2
to the line of centres.     Hence, with the same proviso (a not nearly
equal to 0 or to w, and o small compared with r), the value of           which
causes instability is
                              a            lit
                                    12^/8  . a8  sin a
for a single pair of magnets, and twice this quantity for the middle
members of a long row. This is, of coarse, least for magnets which
lie normal to <§.
   In the special case when « = n- instability occurs when
with the single pair, or    m/4o2  with the row.
   Applied to the case of a group of rows, uniform in distance between
the centres, but various as regards their direction with respect to >§,
these considerations show that after 4? has reached a value sufficient
to make the most susceptible members unstable, no very great
increase is required to bring about instability in by far the greater
number of the other rows.           One general effect of increasing the
distance between all the centres is to reduce the range of variation of
    within which most of the different rows become unstable             as the
force is progressively increased.
   In annealed metal, where we may expect considerable general
homogeneity, as regards distance between the centres of the molecular
magnets, we find that practically the whole of the abrupt stage in the
process of magnetisation is included within narrow limits of magnet
ising force. We accordingly obtain curves like AA (tig. 8).
   When the metal is strained sufficiently to receive permanent set
the curves take more rounded outlines (such as BB), showing less
susceptibility throughout, less residual magnetism, and more coercive
force.    The most natural explanation of this, on the basis of the mole
cular theory, appears to be that mechanical set produces on the whole
a shortening of the distances between molecular centres, hence greater
stability and more coercive force ; but this is associated with hetero

1890.]          Molecular Theory   of Induced   Magnetism.          355
                                Fia.   8.
                                                              A
geneity, that   variety in the distances, hence the rounded outlines
                is,
of the curves.   We know that set teuds to develop, or at least to
emphasise, heterogeneity ;  for instance, a bar of iron or steel pulled
in the testing machine stretches irregularly after the elastic limit  is
passed.
   The effects of stress and consequent elastic strain on magnetic
quality are so complex and so various in iron, nickel, and cobalt that
itwould be premature to attempt any full discussion of them from
the point of view of the theory now sketched.     Only a few general
features need be referred to at present. Some of these can be traced
experimentally in the model by setting the supports of the magnets
upon a sheet of thin india-rubber, which may bo stretched or dis
torted to imitate the conditions of longitudinal or torsional strain.
   When pulling stress   is  applied, those rows of molecular magnets
which lie more or less along the direction of the stress have their
stability reduced by the lengthening of the lines of centres; similarly,
rows which lie more or less normal to the stress have their stability
increased.    The resulting effect on the general susceptibility of the
material will depend on which of these conflicting influences prepon
derates.    Let pull be applied before magnetisation begins while the
metal     still in neutral state. The stretching of longitudinal lines
         is       a

356            Prof.  J. A. Ewing.       Contributions to  the   [June   19,
and the contraction of transverse lines will not only alter the stability
of those molecnles which continue to lie in their original rows, bnt
will tend to make the members of those rows which are much
lengthened swing ronnd and form transverse lines in which they will
be more stable than before.         We may, therefore, reasonably expect
that the permeability with regard to strong fields will be reduced by
pull, as it actually is both in iron and in nickel, though with regard
to weak fields the permeability may be increased, as it is in iron.
   Again, the theory explains well why the effects of stress are by no
means the same (1) when the stress is applied first and the magnetic
force after, and (2) when the magnetic force is applied first and the
stress after.
   Let a moderate     magnetising force be applied, and then begin to
apply stress.    The first effects are in general large, for the strain pre
cipitates into instability those molecular magnets which were already
on the verge of instability.     This is beautifully apparent in iron (see
'Phil. Trans.,' 1885, Plates 63 and 64), and the theory shows
why the first effects are not reversible, why they do not disappear
when the stress is removed, and why it is only in subsequent applica
tions and removals of the stress that the magnetic changes become
cyclic.
   The same remark evidently applies to the first effects of stress on
residual magnetism ; also to the first effects of temperature change
either on induced or residual magnetism.          Again, the theory shows
that when a cyclic change of stress is repeated, there will be hyste
resis in the corresponding changes of magnetism, whether induced or
residual, unless either the cyclic range is very small or the magnetism
approaches saturation.      During each application of the stress some
molecnlar magnets will swing through unstable positions ; during the
removal of stress they will swing back, but not at the same values of
stress. And it will be characteristic of this hysteresis that the
variation in magnetism will begin slowly when the change from
applying to removing stress, or from removing to applying stress,
 begins. All this agrees with the facts.
   Moreover, the theory shows that even in the absence of any resultant,
magnetisation a cycle of stress makes the molecular configuration
pass through a series of changes which will at first not be cyclic, but
 will become cyclic when the stress-cycle is repeated, and in which
any intermediate value of the stress will be associated with different
configurations during the going and coming parts of the process.          In
other words, we see that there will be hysteresis in the relation
of molecular configuration         to stress when a cycle of stress is
 repeated.    Hence certain rather obscure effects which have been
 observed in magnetic experiments ; for instance, where an iron
 wire is loaded and partially unloaded down to a given load before

   1890.]            Molecular Theory        of Induced    Magnetism.                   357
  being magnetised, its permeability is not the same as when the wire
  is completely unloaded and reloaded up to the same load.                          Expe
  rimental results of this kind led me in 1884 to write: "If we apply
  and remove stress in a wire whose magnetic state is entirely neutral,
  we cause some kind        of molecular displacement in the relation of which to
  the applied stress there is hysteresis."*         The theory now offered shows
  how this happens.           Hence also the remarkable hysteresis which the
  thermoelectric quality of iron exhibits with regard to cyclic changes
  of stress, discovered by Cohn, and more fully described in ' Phil.
  Trans.,' 1886, p. 361. The hysteresis of molecular configuration with
 respect to stress has been proved to be removable or reducible by
 vibration.
      From this theoretical explanation of hysteresis in the effects of
 stress, it at once follows that a cyclic change of stress (provided
 it be not very small) involves some dissipation of energy in a
 magnetic metal, whether the piece be magnetised or not.                         We may
 expect       this  dissipation     to  be   most   considerable     under    conditions
 which make the magnetic hysteresis large.                    But it will occur even
 when there is no external trace of magnetism.
      This, of course, implies that in a cyclic process of loading and un
 loading, work must be spent.                There is no perfect elasticity in a
 magnetic metal, however slowly the process of straining be per
 formed.        Under any load there is less strain during application than
 during      removal.     This is borne out by experiments on the extension
 of iron wires ('Brit. Assoc. Rep.,' 1889, p. 502).
     The same action occurs to a marked degree in torsional strains.                     In
 a twisted specimen there will be a tendency on the part of the mole
cular magnets 'to range themselves along lines agreeing more or less
with the direction of maximum contraction. Alternate twisting to
opposite sides should therefore cause much molecular swinging
through unstable positions, with consequent dissipation of energy,
even in a piece which is not magnetised.
     Without going at present into details, it may be added that the
phenomena of molecular "accommodation" studied by Wiedemann
and by H. Tomlinson accord with the theory, and that it seems to
lend itself well to explain the very remarkable results which have
been obtained by Nagaokaf in experiments with nickel wire under
twist or under a combination of pull and twist. It also agrees with
what little is known as to the influence that previous magnetisation in
one direction has upon subsequent magnetisation in anothor direc
tion.
    To sum up, I have endeavoured to show —
    *  'Phil.  Trans.,* 1885, p. 614.
    t  '
         Journal of  the College of Science of the University  of Tokio,' vol. 2, 1888.

358             Molecular Theory    of Induced         Magnetism.   [June   19
   (1.) That in considering the magnetisation of iron and other mag
netic metals to be caused by the turning of permanent molecular
magnets, we may look simply to the magnetic forces which the
molecular magnets exert on one another as the cause of their direc
tional  stability. There is no need to suppose the existence of any
quasi-elastic directing force or of any quasi-frictional resistance to
rotation.
   (2.) That the intermolecular magnetic forces are sufficient to
account for all the general characteristics of the process of mag
netisation, including the variations of susceptibility which occur as
the magnetising force is increased.
   (3.) That the intermolecular magnetic   forces are equally compe
tent to account    for the known facts of retentiveness and coercive
force and the characteristics of cyclic magnetic processes.
   (4.) That magnetic    hysteresis and the dissipation of energy
which hysteresis involves are due to molecular instability resulting
from intermolecular magnetic actions, and are not due to anything in
the nature of frictional resistance to the rotation of the molecular
magnets.
   (5.) That this theory is wide enough to admit explanation of the
differences in magnetic quality which are shown by different sub
stances or by the same substance in different states.
   (6.) That it accounts in a general way for the known effects of
vibration, of temperature, and of stress upon magnetic quality.
   (7.) That in particular it accounts for the known fact that there is
hysteresis in the relation of magnetism to stress.
   (S.) That it further explains why there   in magnetic metals, hyste
                                                is,
resis in physical quality generally with respect to stress, apart from
the existence of magnetisation.
   (9.) That, in consequence, any (not very small) cycle of stress
occurring iu magnetic metal involves dissipation of energy.
               a
X IV. " On the Relation between the Magnetic Permeability of
     Rocks and Regional Magnetic Disturbances."  By A. W.
     ROcker, M.A., F.R.S. Received May 30, 1890.
                           [Publication   deferred.]
XV. "On the Causes of the Phenomena                       of Terrestrial Mag-
         netism, and on some Electro-mechanism for exhibiting the
         Secular Changes in its Horizontal and Vertical Com
         ponents."  By H. Wilde, F.R.S. Received April 22, 1890.
                           [Publication deferred.]

1890.]                             Presents.                                 359
  The Society       adjourned     over   the   Long Vacation to Thursday,
November    20th.
                            Presents, June 19, 1890.
Transactions.
  Acireale : — Societa Italiana dei Microscopisti.        Bollettino. Vol. I.
       Fasc. 3.     8vo. Acireale 1890.                            The Society.
  Baltimore:   —  Johns Hopkins University.            Register   for  1889-90.
       8vo. Baltimore 1890.                  .                 The University.
  Batavia : — Bataviaasch        Genootschap      van Kunsten en Weten-
       schappen.       Notulen.      Deel XXII-XXIII.           Deel XXVII.
       An. 1.       8vo.     Batavia 1884-89; Tijdschrift.          Deel XIX.
       Afl. 4-6. Deel XXX. Deel XXXIII. Ad. 1. 8vo. Batavia.
       1884-89.                                                    The Society.
  Belgrade:   — Royal Servian Academy.             Spomenik.     III-IV.     4to.
       Belgrade 1890     ;  Glas.   X-XVII, XIX-XX.          [Servian.]     8vo.
       Belgrade 1888-90.                                        The Academy.
  Berlin : — Deutsche Chemische           Gesellschaft.    Berichte.      Jahrg.
       XXII. Nos. 17-18. 8vo. Berlin 1889.                        The Society.
     Gesellschaft fur Erdkunde.         Zeitschrift. Band XXIV. Heft 6.
       Band XXV. Heft 2. 8vo. Berlin 1889-90.                      The Society.
     Konigliche     Preuss.    Akademie     der   Wissenschaften.     Sitzungs-
       berichte.     1889. Nos. XXXIX-LHI. 8vo. Berlin 1889.
                                                                The Academy.
              —
  Brisbane : Queensland Branch of the Royal Geographical Society
       of Australasia.         Proceedings      and Transactions.      Vol. V.
       Part I. 8vo. Brisbane 1889.                                 The Society.
  Brussels : — Acad^mie Royale de M£decine.                Bulletin.     Ser. 4.
       Tome III.       No. 11.      Tome IV. Nos. 1-4.           8vo. Bruxelles
       1889-90.                                                 The Academy.
     Academic Royale des Sciences. Bulletin. Ser. 3. Tome XVIII.
       No. 12.     Tome XIX. Nos. 1-4. 8vo. Bruxelles 1889-90.
                                                                 The Academy.
   Calcutta : — Asiatic Society of Bengal.            Journal.    Vol. LVIII.
       Part I. No. 2. Part II. Nos. 3-4. Supplements Nos. 1-2 ;
       Proceedings.        1889.   Nos. 7-10.     8vo. Calcutta 1889-90.
                                                                   The Society.
   Cambridge : — Philosophical Society.            Proceedings.      Vol. VII.
       Part 1. 8vo. Cambridge 1890.                                The Society.
   Cambridge, Mass. : — Museum of Comparative Zoology.                 Bulletin.
       Vol. XIX. No. 2-3. 8vo. Cambridge 1890.                    The Museum.
     Harvard University. Bulletin. No. 46. 8vo. Cambridge 1890.
                                                               The University.

360                                     Presents.                         [June   19,
Transactions      {continued).
   Campinas     : — Estacao Agronomica         de Campinas.      Relatorio Annual,
          1889.      4to. Sao Paulo 1890.                            The Director.
                    —
   Cherbourg : Société Nationale des Sciences Naturelles et Mathé-
          matiques.        Mémoires.     Tome XXVI. 8vo. Cherbourg 1889.
                                                                       The Society.
   Cli.istiania: —Videnskabs-Selskab.              Forhandlinger.      1888.    8vo.
          Christiania 1889.                                           The Society.
   Cop?nha'*on : — Videnskabernes Selskab.                Skrifter.    6te Bække.
         Natarvid, og Math. Afdeling.             Bind 6. No. 1.       4to. Kjfben-
          havn lS .^O; Oversigt over det Forhandlinger               1889.    No. 3 :
         18U0.       No. 1. 8vo. København 1889-90.
                                                                       The Society.
   Emden: — Naturforschende              Gesellschaft.     74. Jahresbericht pro
         1883-89.         8vo. Emden 1890.                             The Society.
                —
   Erlangen : Physikalisch-medicinische Societat. Sitzungsberichte.
         Keft XXI. 1889. 8vo. Munchm, 1890.                            The Society.
   Essex:— Essex Field Club.               The Essex Naturalist.           Vol. III.
         Nos. 10-12 ; Vol. IV. Nos. 1-3. 8vo. Buckhurst Hill 1889-90.
                                                                          The Club.
                              —
   Frankfort-on-Main : Senckenbergische                Naturforschende Gesell
         schaft. Abhandlungen. Band XIV. Heft 2-3. 4to. Frank
        furt a. M. 1886.                                              The Society.
   Frankfort-on-Oder : — Naturwissenschaftlicher               Verein.       Monat-
         liche Mittheilungen.           Jahrg. VI. Nos. 10-11. Jahrg. VII.
         Nos. 3-11. 8vo. Frankfurt a. O.                              The Society.
  Heidelberg      : —   Universitat.   Akademische     Schriften.    8vo.  1888-89.
                                                                   The University.
  Helsingfors       : —  Societas   pro   Fauna     et  Flora    Fennica.      Acta.
         Vol. V. Pars 1. Meddelanden.                 Haft 15. 8vo. Helsingfors
         1888-89 ; Herbarium Musei Fennici. Editio secunda. Pars 1.
         8vo. Helsingforsiæ 1889.                                     The Society.
  Jena : — Medicinisch-naturwissenschaftliche Gesellschaft. Jenaische
         Zeitschrift. Band XXIV. Heft 1. 8vo. Jena 1889.
                                                                      The Society.
  Kew : — Royal Gardens. Bulletin. No. 42. 8vo. London. 1890.
                                                                     The Director.
  Kharkoft : — Section Médicale de la Société des Sciences Expéri-
         mentales.        Travaux.     Année 1889.        [Rubs.] 8vo. Kharkoff
        1889- 90.                                                     The Section.
  Klausenburg         : — Erdélyi Muzeum-Egylet.            Orvos-Természettudo-
        manyi Értesito.          Évfolyam XIV. 8vo. Kolozsvdrt 1889.
                                                                      The Society.
            —
  Liége : Société Géologique de Belgique. Annales. Tome XVII.
        Livr. 2. 8vo. Liége 1890.                                     The Society.

1890.]                            Presents.                                    361
Transactions (continued).
    Societe Royale des Sciences.         Memoires.       Ser. 2.     Tome    XVI.
       8vo. Bruxelles 1890.                                         The Society.
  London: — Anthropological Institute.         Journal.    Vol.    XIX.     No. 3.
       8vo.    London 1890.                                       The Institute.
    Chemical     Society.    Journal. January to June, 1890.                  8vo.
       London;     Abstracts of the Proceedings.           Nos. 76-84.        8vo.
       London.                                                      The Society.
    East India Association. Journal.            Vol. XXII. No. 2. 8vo.
       London 1890.                                           The Association.
    Geological Society.      Quarterly Journal. Vol. XLVI. Part 1-2.
       8vo. London 1890;         Abstracts of the Proceedings.                Nos.
       548-557.     8vo. London 1890.                              The Society.
    Institution of Civil Engineers. Abstracts of the Proceedings.
       Session 1889-90.      Nos. 4-13.     8vo.  [London]     1889-90.
                                                               The Institution.
    Linnean Society.       Journal (Botany). Vol. XXV.                  No. 172.
       Vol. XXVI. No. 174. Vol. XXVII. Nos. 181-182 ; Journal
       (Zoology). Vol. XX. No. 123. Vol. XXIII. Nos. 141-144.
       8vo. London 1889-90; Proceedings.                From Nov., 1887 to
       June, 1888. 8vo. London 1890.                               The Society.
    London Mathematical Society.           Proceedings."      Vol. XXI. Nos.
       370-376.     8vo. London [1890].                             The Society.
    Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain. Pharmaceutical Journal
       and Transactions.      January to June, 1890.         8vo. London.
                                                                   The Society.
    Photographic Society of Great Britain.            Journal and Transac
       tions.    New Series. Vol. XIV. No. 8. 8vo. London 1890.
                                                                    The Society.
    Physical Society.     Proceedings.      Vol.  X.     Part  3.   8vo. London
       1890.                                                        The Society.
    Royal Agricultural Society      of England.      Journal.      Third   Series.
       Vol. I. Part 1. 8vo. London 1890.                           The Society.
    Royal Astronomical Society.          Monthly Notices.        Vol. L. Nos.
       2-6. 8vo. London 18b9-90.                                   The Society.
    Royal Geographical Society.          Proceedings.       January to June,
       1890.    8vo. London 1890.                                  The Society.
    Royal Institute of British Architects. Journal of Proceedings.
       New Series. Vol. VI. Nos. 6-16. 4to. London 1890.
                                                                  The Institnte.
    Royal    Institution.   Reports   of  the Weekly      Meetings.      January
       to March, 1890.      8vo. [London.]                     The Institution.
    Royal Meteorological Society.          Quarterly Journal.         Vol. XVI.
       Nos. 73-74; The Meteorological Record.               Vol. IX. No. 35.
       8vo. London 1890.                                            The Society.
  VOL. 1LVI1I.                                                        2  G

362                                Presents.                         [June    19,
Transactions   (continued).
     Royal    Microscopical     Society.     Journal.     1890.     Parts 1-2.
        8vo. London.                                              The   Society.
     Society of Arts. Journal. Jannary to June, 1890. 8vo. London
                                                                  The Society.
     Society of Biblical Archaeology.              Proceedings.      Vol. XII.
        Part 7. 8vo. London 1890.                                 The Society.
     Society of Chemical Industry.        Journal. January to May, 1890.
        8vo. London.                                              The Society.
     Zoological Society.       Transactions.      Vol.  XII.    Part   10.   4to.
        London 1890; Proceedings. 1889.            Part IV. 8vo. London.
                                                                  The Society.
             —
   Moscow : Musée Pnblic et Ronmiantzow.                Description Systéma
        tique des Collections du Musée,          làvr. 1-2 ; Catalogue de la
        Section des Gravures.       Livr. 1—4 ; Recueil de Matériaux pour
        l'Ethnographie. Livr. 3 ; Compte Rendu. 188G-88. [Russ.]
        8vo. Moscou 1887-89.                                     The Museum.
   Munster:  —  Kônigliche Akademie.        Inaugural-Dissertationen, 1889.
        8vo. Munster 1889.                                      The Academy.
   New York     : —  New   York   Academy      of   Sciences.    Transactions.
        Vol. IX. Nos. 1-2 ; Annals. Vol. V. Nos. 1-3. 8vo. New
        York 1889.                                              The Academy.
   Odessa:  —  Société     des   Naturalistes de la Nouvelle Russie.
        Mémoires      de la Section  Mathématique.        Tome   IX.     [Russ.]
        8vo. Odessa 1889.                                         The Society.
   Palermo: — Circolo Matematico. Rendiconti. Tomo IV. Fasc. 3-4.
        8vo. Palermo 1889.                                        The Circolo.
          —
   Paris : Académie des Sciences.            Comptes Rendus.          Janvier —
        Juin, 1890. 4to. Paris.                                 The Academy.
     Congrès      International  de   Bibliographie des Sciences Mathé
        matiques, 1889.      Procès-verbal Sommaire.        8vo. Paris 1889.
                                       The French Ministry of Commerce.
     Congrès International de Zoologie, 1889.             Compte Rendu des
        Séances. 8vo. Paris 1890.
                                         The Zoological Society of France.
     École des Hautes Études. Bibliothèque. Sciences Philologiques
        et Historiques. Fasc. 68 (Livr. 3), 72 (fasc. 2), 79, 80-81.
        8vo. Paris 1889.                                           The School.
     École Normale Supérieure.         Annales.     Tome VII.      No. 3. 4to.
        Paris.                                                     The School.
     Ministère de la Guerre. Catalogne de la Bibliothèque. Tome VI.
        8vo. Paris 1888.                       The French Ministry of War.
     Société de Biologie.        Comptes Rendus.         Janvier — Juin, 1890.
        8vo. Parw.                                                The Society.
     Société de Géographie.        Bulletin.    Sér. 7. Tome X. Trim. 3,

1890.]                            Presents.
Transactions (continued)   .
       4.    8vo.  Paris 1889;      Compte Rendu des         Séances.     1889.
       Nos. 15-17.   1890.   Nos. 1-10.    8vo. Paris.           The Society.
     Société d'Enconragement pour l'Industrie         Nationale.      Bulletin.
       Décembre, 1889. Janvier— Mai, 1890.            4to.  Paris 1889-90;
       Compte Rendu des Séances.        Janvier — Juin,   1890.   8vo. Paris.
                                                                 The Society.
     Société  Francaise   de  Physique. Résumé des Communications.
       Janvier — Mai,   1890.   8vo. Paris.                     The Society.
     Société Mathématique de France.             Bulletin.     Tome XVII-
       No. 6. Tome XVIII. Nos. 1-4. 8vo. Paris 1889-90.
                                                                The Society.
     Société Philomathique.      Compte    Rendu   Sommaire     des   Séances.
       Janvier— Juin 1890. 8vo. [Paris.]                        The Society.
  Perugia: — Accademia Medico-Chirurgica.              Atti e Rendiconti.
       Vol. II. Fase. 1. 8vo. Perugia 1890.
                                                              The Academy.
                  —
  Philadelphia : Academy of Natural               Sciences.     Proceedings.
       October— December, 1889. Pages 1-144, 1890. 8vo. Phil
       adelphia 1890.                                         The Academy.
     American Philosophical Society.           Proceedings.      VoL XXVI.
       No. 130. 8vo. Philadelphia 1889.                          The Society.
     Franklin Institute.      Journal.    January to June, 1890.           8vo.
       Philadelphia.                                           The Institute.
  Pisa: — Società Toscana di Scienze Naturali.             Processi Verbali.
       Voi. VII. Pages 21-78.         8vo. [Pisa.]              The Society.
  Plymouth:   —  Plymouth    Institution.   Annual Report and Transac
       tions.   Vol. X. Part 3. 8vo. Plymouth 1890.
                                                            The Institution.
            —
  Prague : Konigl. Bòhmische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften.
       Sitzungsberichte.      Math.-naturw. Classe.        1889.    Band    II  ;
       Jahresbericht.     1889.    8vo. Prog 1890; Spis&v Pocténych
       Jubilejni. Cislo II. 8vo. v Praze 1889.                  The Society.
  Rome: — Accademia Pontificia de' Nuovi Lincei.                Atti.    Anno
       XLII. Sessione 3. 4to. Roma 1889.                      The Academy.
     Reale Accademia dei Lincei.       Atti. Ser. 4. Rendiconti. Vol. V.
       (Semestre 2). Fase. 7-13; Vol. VI (Semestre 1) Fase. 1-7.
       4to. Roma 1889-90.                                     The Academy.
     R. Comitato Geologico d'Italia.         Bollettino. Vol. XX. Nos.
       11-12. Vol. XXI. Nos. 1-2. 8vo. Roma 1889-90.
                                                              The Comitato.
  St. Petersburg : — Académie Impériale deja Sciences.             Mémoires.
       Tome XXXVII.           Nos. 4-5.     4to. St. Pétersbourg 1889-90 ;
       Bulletin. Nouvelle Sèrie. Tome I. No. 3. 8vo. St. Péters
       bourg 1890.                                            The Academy.
                                                                2 o 2

:W4                                 Presents.                           [June   19,
Transactions    (continued).
   Sienna: — R. Accademia        dei Fisiocritici.     Atti.    Ser. 4.   Vol. II.
         Fasc. 1-2.    8vo.  Siena 1890.                            The Academy.
   Stockholm:- — Kongl. Vetenskaps- Akademie.                 öfversigt af För-
        handlingar. Arg. XLVII. No. 3. 8vo. Stockholm 1890.
                                                                    The Academy.
   Sydney: — Linnean Society of New South Wales.                       Abstract of
        Proceedings.     November     —   December,     1889.    January — April,
        1890.    8vo. Sydney.                                         The Society.
           —
   Tokio : University.      Memoirs    of   the Science   Department. Vol. III.
        Parti. 4to. 1880.                                         The University.
   Turin : — R. Accademia delle Scienze. Atti. Vol. XXV. Disp.
        9-10.    1889-90.     8vo. Torino.                          The Academy.
   Utrecht: — Provinciaal Utrechtsch Genootschap van Kunsten en
         Wetenschappen.       Verslag van het verhandelde in de Alge-
        meene Vergadering.         1889.      8vo. Utrecht 1889 ; Aanteekeu-
        ingen  van  het  verhandelde     in  de  Sectie- Vergaderingen. 1881.'.
        8vo. Utrecht; Vervolg benevens Wijzigingen en Toevoegsels
        op den Catalogus         der Archeologische Verzameling.               8vo.
         Utrecht 1890.                                                The Society.
   Vienna : — K.-K. Naturhistorisches Hofmuseum.                Annalen. Band
        IV. No. 4. Band V. No 1. 8vo. Wien 1890.
                                                                     The Museum.
     öpterreichischer Touristen-Club.           Mittheilungen      der Section für
        Naturkunde. Jahrg. I. 4to. Wien 1889.                           The Clnb.
  Washington : — Smithsonian          Institution.       Report upon Inter
        national Exchanges, 1888.          8vo. Washington 18ö9 ; Bureau of
        Ethnology.      Fifth and Sixth Annual Reports. 4to. Washing
        ton 1887-88 ;      Bibliography of the Iroquoian Languages ;
        Bibliography of tho Muskhogean Languages ; The Circular,
        Square, and Octagonal Earthworks of Ohio; The Problem of
        the Ohio Mounds ; Textile Fabrics of Ancient Peru. 8vo.
         Washington 1888-89 ;         United States National Museum.
        Proceedings.      Nos. 761-787 [several numbers wanting]. 8vo.
        Washington 1889-90.                                       The Institution.
  Wiirtemburg:     —  Wirtembergisches         Urkundenbuch.        Herausg. von
        dem Königlichen Staatsarchiv in 'Stuttgart.                 Bd. V. 4to.
        Stuttgart 1889.                     The Government of Wiirtembeiy.
   Wiirzburg: — Physikalisch-medicinische Gesellschaft.                  Verhand-
        lungen.    Neue Folge.        Band XXIII. 8vo. Wiirzburg 1890 ;
        Sitzungsberichte.       Jahrg.   1889.    8vo. Wiirzhurg 1889.
                                                                      The Society.
  Zurich: — Naturforschende        Gesellschaft. Vierteljahrsschrift. Jahr^
        XXXIV. Heft 3-4.            8vo. Zurich 1889.                 The Society.

1890.]                            Presents.                               3(5f
Observations and Reports.
  Albany : — Commissioners of the State Reservation at Niagara.
       Sixth Annual Report. 8vo. Albany 1890.
                                                       The Commissioners.
  Austria : — K.K. Gradmessungs-Bareau.           Astronomische Arbeiten.
       Bd. L 4to. Wien 1889.                                    The Bureau.
             —
  Bombay : Meteorological Office. Brief Sketch of the Meteorology
       of the Bombay Presideucy iu 1888-89.          Folio. Bombay.
                                                                  The Office.
  Brisbane : — Chief Weather Bureau. Climatological Tables.              July
       to September, 1889.        [Sheets.]     Brisbane ; Meteorological
       Synopsis.      July to December, 1889. [Sheets.] Brisbane;
       Summaries of Rainfall.        July to December, 1889. [Sheets.]
       Brisbane.                                                The Bureau.
                        —
  Cambridge, Mass. : Harvard College Observatory.             Annals.    Vol.
       XVIII. No. 10. Vol. XXI. Part 1. Vol. XXII. 4to.
       Cambridge 1889-90 ; Henry Draper Memorial. Fourth Annual
       Report. 4to. Cambridge 1890.                        The Observatory.
  Dorpat   : — Stern warte.   Meteorologische     Beobachtungen.      Juni —
       December, 1889.       8vo.   [Dorpat.]              The Observatory.
  Dublin : — General Register Office. Weekly Return of Births and
       Deaths.     January to June, 1890. 8vo. Dublin.
                                       The Registrar- General for Ireland.
                          —
  England and Wales : Geological Survey. Thirty-two volumes of
       the General Memoirs of the Survey.            8vo.    London 1884 —
       1890.                                                    The Survey.
  France : — Eludes des Gites Mineraux de la France. Publiees par le
       Service des Topographies       Souterraines.   4to.   Paris 1889.
                                           Ministere des Travaux Publics.
  India : — Geological Survey.     Records.    Vol. XXIII. Part 2. 8vo.
       Calcutta, 1890.                                          The Survey.
    Trigonometrical Branch, Survey of India. Spirit-levelled Heights.
       No. 5.     Madras Presidency. Season 1888-89.            8vo. Dehra
       Dun 1890.                                                The Survey.
  Kiel :— K. Sternwarte.       Publication.    IV. 4to. Kiel 1890.
                                                           The Observatory.
             —
  London : Meteorological Office. Daily Weather Report. January
       to June, 1890. 4to. London ; Weekly Weather Report. 1890.
       Nos. 17 — 26. 4to. London; Summary of the Observations made
       at the Stations included in the Daily and Weekly Weather
       Reports.     April to December, 1888. January to March, 1890.
       4to. London.                                               The Office.
     Royal Observatory,     Greenwich.      Observations,   1887,  with Ap
       pendices 1   —  3.  4to. London 1889 ; Results of the Astro
       nomical Observations, 1887.        4to. London 1889 ; Results of

366                                  Presents.                        [June   19,
Observations,   &e. (continued).
       the Magnetical and Meteorological Observations, 1887.                 4to.
       London 1889      ; Report of the Astronomer Royal to the Board
       of "Visitors, 1890.      4to.    [London.]             The Observatory.
  Melbourne   : — Department         of   Mines. Reports of the Mining
       Registrars for the quarters ended 30th September and 31st
       December, 1889.         Folio. Melbourne.
                                                               The Department.
    Observatory. Monthly Record.               July to December, 1889. 8vo.
       Melbourne ; Twenty-fourth Report of the Board of Visitors.
       Folio. Melbourne 1889.                                 The Observatory.
    •Public Library, Museums, and National Gallery of Victoria.
       Report. 1888. 8vo. Melbourne.                              The Trustees.
    Royal    Sanitary    Commission.       Second   and    Third  Progress Re
       ports and Final Report into the Sanitary Condition of Mel
       bourne.      Folio. Melbourne 1889-90.
                                                  The Victorian Government.
  Mersey : — Report on the Present State of the Navigation of the
       River Mersey.         1889.    By Admiral Sir G. H. Richards. 8vo.
       London 1890.                                Sir G. H. Richards, F.R.S.
  Mexico : — Observatorio Meteorol6gico-Magnetico             Central. Boletin
       Mensual. Tomo II. Num. 5-6. 4to. Mexico 1889.
                                                              The Observatory.
          —
  Milan: R. Osservatorio'di Brera. Osservazioni. 1889. 4to. Milatw.
                                                               The Observatory.
  New South      Wales    : — Department     of  Mines,   Sydney.   Records of
       the Geological Survey. Vol. I. Part 3. 4to. Sydney 1890.
                                                               The Department.
  Nice: —  Observatoire.        Annales.      Tome    III   (and Atlas).     4to.
       Paris 1890.                                            M. Bischoffsheim.
  Paris : — Observatoire.       Rapport Annuel pour l'Annee 1889. 4to.
       Paris 1890.                                             The Observatory.
  Pennsylvania     : — Geological Survey.       Annual   Report for 1887. 8vo.
       Harrisburg 1889.         With various other Reports and Atlases.
       8vo.                                                        The Survey.
  Philadelphia :     —  United States International Exhibition, 1876.
       Catalogue of the Chinese Imperial Maritime Customs Collec
       tion.    4to.     Shanghai 1876.
                                                 Essex Institute, Salem, Mass.
             —
  Pulkova : Observatoire.            Observations.      Vol. VIII. 4to.       St.
       Pdtersbourg 1889 ; Supplement 2 aux Observations.                     4to.
       St. Petersbourg 1889 ; Zum 50-jahrigen Bestehn der Nicolai-
       Hauptsternwarte. 4to. St. Petersbourg 1889.                 With sundry-
       other publications of the Observatory in 8vo.
                                                              The Observatory.

189.').]                           Presents.                                367
Observations, &c. (continued).
   Rio de Janeiro : — Observatorio Meteorologico.           Boletins Mensaes.
         Vol. III. Anno 1888. 8vo. Rio de Janeiro.
                                                             The Observatory.
   "Washington:   —  U.S. Patent Office. Official Gazette. Vol. L. Nos.
         1—12.      Vol. LL     Nos. 1—12, with Alphabetical Lists of
         Patentees     and Inventions.       Vols.    XLVII — XL IX. 8vo.
          Washington 1889-90.                                        The Office.
   Windsor, New South Wales.          Mr. Tebbutt's Observatory.       Reports,
         1888-89.    8vo.    Sydney 1889-90.                      Mr. Tebbutt.
Journals.
   American Chemical Journal. Vol. XV. No. 8. Vol. XVI. Nos. 1-4.
         8vo. Baltimore 1889-90; General Index of Vols. I-X. 8vo.
         Baltimore 1890.                                            The Editor.
   American Journal of Philology.      "    Vol.  XI.  No.  1.  8vo.  Baltimore
         1890.                                                      The Editor.
   American Journal of Science.           January   to  June,  1890.  8vo. New
         Haven.                                                    The Editors.
   Analyst (The) January to June, 1890. 8vo. London.
                                                                    The Editor.
   Annalen der Physik und Chemie. 1890. Nos. 1-4. 8vo. Leipzig ;
         Beiblatter. 1889. No. 12. 1890. Nos. 1-3. 8vo. Leipzig.
                                                                    The Editor.
   Asclepiad (The)      Vol.  VII.  No.  26.   8vo. London   1890.
                                                      Dr. Richardson, F.R.S.
   Astronomie (L') Janvier-Avril, 1890. 8vo. Paris.
                                                                    The Editor.
   Astronomische Nachrichten. Bd. CXXIII. 4to. Kiel 1890.
                                                                   The Editor.
   Ateneo (El)       Revista Mensual Cientifica, Literaria, Artistica y
         Bibliografica. Afio 1. Num. 5. 8vo. Palma de Mallorca 1890.
                                                                   The Editor.
   Athenaeum (The)        January to June, 1890. 4to. London.
                                                                   The Editor.
   Boletin de Minas Indu&tria y Construcciones.              1890. Num. 1-2.
         4to. Lima.                                                 The Editor.
   Bailder (The) January to June, 1890. 8vo. London.
                                                                   The Editor.
   Chamber of Commerce Journal.               January to June, 1890. 4to.
         London.                             London Chamber of Commerce.
   Chemical News.       January to June, 1890. 8vo. London.
                                                      Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S.
    Cosmos. Janvier-Juin, 1890. 8vo. Paris.                M. l'Abbe Valette.

308                               Present*.                          [June   19,
Journals (continued).
  Educational Times (The)         January   -to June, 1890. 4to. London.
                                                  The College of Preceptors.
  Electrical Engineer (The) January to June, 1890. Folio. London.
                                                                   The Editor.
  Electrical Review (The) January to June, 1890. Folio. London.
                                                                  The Editor.
  Electrician (The) January to June, 1890. Folio. London.
                                                                  The Editor.
  Epigraphia Indioa, and Record of the Archaeological Survey of
        India. Part 4 4to. Calcutta 1889.                   The India Office.
  Galilee (Le)     Annee 2. No. 5. 8vo. Paris 1890.                The Editor.
  Horological Journal (The)         Vol. XXXII. No. 382. 8vo. London
        1890.                                 British Horological Institute.
  Industries. January to June, 1890. 4to. London.
                                                                  The Editor.
  Meteorologische    Zeitschrift.   Januar-Juni,    1890.  Small  folio.   Wien.
                         Oesterreichische Gesellschaft fur Meteorologie.
  Mittheilnngen aus der Zoologischen Station zu Neapel. Bd. IX.
        Heft 3. 8vo. Berlin 1890.                                  Dr. Dohrn.
  Morskoi Sbornik. [Russian.] 1889. No. 12. 1890. Nos. 1-6. 8vo.
        St. Petersburg.                   Compass Observatory,       Cronstadt.
  Naturalist (The) No. 179. 8vo. London 1890.                    The Editors.
  Nature. January to June, 1890. Roy. 8vo. London.
                                                                  The Editor.
  New York Medical Journal.             January to June,     1890.    4to.  Neic
        York.                                                      The Editor.
  Notes and Queries.      January to June,      1890.  4to. London.
                                                                  The Editor.
  Observatory    (The)    January to June,      1890.  8vo. London.
                                                                 The Editors.
  Revista do Observatorio.      Anno V. Num. 5. 8vo. Rio de Janeiro
        1890.                             The Observatory, Rio de Janeiro.
  Revue Generale des Sciences.         Janvier-Juin, 1890. 8vo. Paris.
                                                                  The Editor.
  Revue Internationale de l'Electricite.          Janvier-Juin,     1890. 8vo.
        Paris.                                                     The Editor.
  Revue Medico-Pharmacentique. Annee 3. No. 5. 4to. Constanti
       nople 1890.                                                 The Editor.
  Revue Scientifique.      Janvier-Juin, 1890. 4to. Paris.
                                                                  The Editor.
  Sbornik Materialov dlya Opisaniya Myestenostei i Piemen Kav-
        kaza.    [Collection of Materials for the Description of the
       Localities and Races of the Caucasus — Russian.] 8vo. Tifiis
       1890.         Curateur de l'Arrondissement Scolaire du Caucase.

 1890.]                           Presents.                             369
Journals (continued).
   Societatnm Litterae. 1888. November-December.            1889.  Jannar-
        December. 8vo. Frankfurt-am-Oder.
                              Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein, Frankfurt.
   Stazioni Sperimentali Agrarie Italiane (Le) Vol. XVIII. Fasc. 5.
         8vo. Asti 1890.                    R. Stazione Enologica di Asti.
   Symons's Monthly Meteorological          Magazine.    January to June,
         1890. 8vo. London.                      Mr. G. J. Symons, F.R.S.
   Zeitschrift  fur Biologie.  Bd. VIII.    Heft 4. Bd. IX. Heft 1. 8vo.
        Munchen 1889-90 ; General-Register.            Bd. I-XXV.      8vo.
        Miinchen 1890.                                         The Editors.
 Babbage    (H. P.)     Babbage's
                               ^    Occulting    Telegraph.   8vo.  London
      [1890].                                                  The Author.
Bemmelen      (J. F.  van.)     De Erfelijkheid van Verworven Eigen-
     schappen. 8vo.    's Gravenhage 1890.
                      Provinciaal Utrechtsch Genootschap van Kunsten
                                                        en Wetenschappen.
Brodie (Rev. P. B.) On the Character, Variety, and Distribution of
     the Fossil Insects. 8vo. Wanvick [1889].                  The Author.
Clowes (F.)       A Treatise on Practical Chemistry and Qualitative
     Analysis. Fifth edition. 8vo. London 1890.                The Author.
Dall (W. H.) Deep Sea Mollusks and the Conditions             under  which
     they exist. 8vo. Washington 1890 ; On Dynamic Influences in
     Evolution. 8vo. Washington 1890.                          The Author.
Danielssen (D. C.)        Den Norske Nordhavs-Expedition.         Actinida.
     4to. Christiania 1890.
Davis (N. D.)        The Cavaliers and Roundheads            of Barbados,
     1650-1652. 8vo. Georgetown 1887.         With Four Pamphlets. 8vo.
     Demerara.                                                 The Author.
Dawson (Sir W.), F.R.S.        Note on a Fossil Fish and Marine Worm.
     8vo. 1890.                                                The Author.
Dawson (Sir W.), F.R.S., and D. P. Penhallow.           On the Pleistocene
     Flora of Canada. 8vo. Washington 1890.                   The Authors.
Evans (J.), Treas. R.S. Address at the Anniversary Meeting of the
     Society of Antiquaries. 8vo. London 1890.                 The Anthor.
Gilbert (J.  H),  F.R.S. Results of Experiments at Rothamsted on
     the Growth of Leguminous Crops. 8vo. Cirencester [1H90].
                                                               The Author.
Juhlin (J.) Sur la Temperature Nocturne de l'Air a Differentes
     Hauteurs. 4to. Upsal 1890.                                The Author.
Kolliker (A.), For. Mem. R.S. Zur feineren Anatomie des centralen
     Nervensystems. 8vo. [Leipzig] 1890.                       The Author.

370                  Pro£       J.   R. Green.        On the
Miller (W. D.)   Die Mikroorganismen
                              "        der Mundhohle. 8vo. Leipzig
         1889.                                          The Author.
Parlatore (F.) Flora. Iteliana. Vol. IX. 8vo. Firenze 1890.
                                                    Prof. T. Carnel.
Richardson (B. W.),  F.R.S.   National Health. Abridged from " The
     Health of Nations," a Review of the Works of Sir Edwin Chad-
     wick, K.C.B. 8vo. London 1890. With Two Pamphlets. 8vo.
                                               Sir Edwin Chadwick.
Spencer (J. W.)    The Iroquois Beach, a Chapter in the Geological
     History of Lake Ontario. 4to. [Montreal] 1889.     The Author.
Waterhouse (J.) Annual Address and Review. 8vo. Calcutta 1890.
                                                        The Author.
" On the Germination of the Seed of the Castor-oil Plant
    (Ricinus communis)."   By J. R. GREEN, M.A., B.Sc., F.L.S..
    Professor of Botany to the Pharmaceutical Society of Great
    Britain. Communicated by Professor M. FOSTER, Sec. R.S.
    Received January 29, — Read January 30, 1890.
   The germination of those seeds in which the non-nitrogenons
reserve material is found to be an oil and not a carbohydrate was first
studied by Sachs, who, in a series of papers published in 1859,* put
forward a hypothesis to explain the manner in which the oil becomes
available for the nutrition of the young plant.          He records as his
starting point the  observation that  at  the onset  of germination the oil
gradually disappears, just as starch disappears from the reservoirs
when germination is started in a seed containing               it,
                                                             and he shows
that the development of the young plant proceeds concurrently with
this disappearance.    From this     follows that the oil, like the starch,
                                       it
is   areserve material to  be  made   use of by the embryo in its early
growth. So far as he deals with the changes taking place in the oil,
he puts forward the view that Rtarch          directly formed from
                                                 is                   it,
                                                                        and
that this conversion    is the first step that may be traced.        Subse
quently, sugar arises from the starch, and thus, in all seeds alike, the
non-nitrogenous reserves travel as sugar from their storehouses to
the seat of growth.
   Though putting forward the view of the conversion of fat directly
into starch, he appears to be scarcely satisfied with         speaking of
                                                                it,         it
 as being very surprising, and, indeed, admitting that in many seeds
 the greater portion of the disappearing oil gives rise immediately to
 sugar, and not through the intervention of starch.
    Sachs's view that fat or oil       transformed into starch was soon
                                         is
                    •
                            Bot. Zeitg.,' 1859, col. 178 el
                        '

               Germination       of the  Seed   of the Castor-oil Plant.             371
after endorsed by Peters,* who published comparative analyses of
the oily seed and seedling of the pumpkin. By these tables, Peters
shows that during the early period of germination the oil diminished
from about 50 per cent, of the weight of the seed till it only amounted
to 17 per cent., and that starch appeared in the same time in quan
tity equal to 4 per cent, of the weight of the seed.                   During a second
period     the  oil went    down    from    17  to   11   per   cent., while  the starch
increased from-      4  to 7-6 per cent.        Dnring a third period, while the
oil sank to 4 per cent., the starch also diminished, becoming rather
less than 3 per cent.           Peters, in considering these analyses, appears
to hold the view put forward by Sachs, that the starch is produced by
the transformation of the oil, though the quantities given do not at
all necessarily bear out the hypothesis.
    Fleury,! in 1865, working on the castor-oil, rape, and almond
plants, denied the necessity for the occurrence of starch, pointing
out that as the oil disappears sugar is to be found.                         He further
noticed that during the germination there was a formation of a non
volatile acid in small quantity.
    V. Hellriegel,f who investigated rapeseed, agrees with Fleury in
denying the occurrence of starch as an intermediate product of the
conversion of fat.            He points out that germination is attended by
processes of oxidation, there being an evolution of C02 during the
whole period.
    In 1871, a new fact was noted by Miintz,§ that during germination
a quantity of fatty acid appears in the seed, pointing to a splitting
up of the oil into such fatty acid and glycerine. Miintz suggests
that the embryo may play a very important part in such a trans
formation, acting after the manner of a ferment.                       He failed to find
any glycerine in any of his experiments, but says that the fatty acid
increases in quantity as the germination proceeds.                      The fate of the
glycerine, if liberated, he did not trace, nor does he suggest what
 becomes of it.
    Schiitzenberger,||      in 1876, drew attention to the fact that if oily
seeds be steeped       in water, an emulsion is obtained in which very soon
may be noted the appearance of glycerine and fatty acid, and puts
forward the view that during germination an emulsive and saponi
fying ferment, placed with fat in the presence of water, causes it to
undergo true digestion and renders it assimilable.                      He gives, how
ever,     no evidence    of  the  existence    of such    a ferment.
   • Peters, ' Landwirthsch.      Versuchsstat.,' vol. 3, 1861.
   t  '
         Anuales de Chimie,' Mr. 4, vol. 4, p. 38.
   J  Detmer, ' Vergleichende Physiologie des Keimungsproccsses der Samen.' Jena,
1880, p. 334.
   §  Miintz, ' Annales   de Chimie,'   ser. 4, vol. 22, 1 871.
       '
   ||    On Fermentation'    (Internet. Scientif. Series, vol. xx).

372                        Prof.    J.  R. Green.       On   the
    Detmer,*     in  1880,   in criticising Miintz's results, quoted above,
endeavours to reconcile the decomposition suggested by the latter
-with the older statements of Sachs as to the origination of starch at
the expense of the oil. He suggests that the glycerine may be trans
formed into certain unknown bodies, and that the fatty acid may be
the immediate antecedent of the starch, giving as a possible explana
tion of the transformation the equation
                 0^11^02 + 270         =    2C6H10O5 +   6CO2+7H2O.
He had himself, in 1875, published some analyses of hempseed before
and after germination, showing that with a disappearance of about
16 parts of oil there was a formation of nearly 9 parts of starch.
    In his later work, in 1882, Sachst somewhat modifies the views
originally propounded by him in 1859, though still adhering in the
main to his hypothesis that at any rate the greater part of the oil is
transformed directly to starch and sugar.                     He remarks upon the
occurrence of oil drops in considerable quantity in the parenchyma of
the roots and shoot-axis of the seedlings of Bicinus and other plants,
and admitting the possibility of the accuracy of Schiitzenberger's
suggestion of ferment action, he thinks that these fat globules may
l>e due to the recombination             of the fatty acid and glycerine, which
may travel separately from cell to cell, recombining under certain
conditions.       Such a process presents a certain similarity with the
movements of transitory starch.
    On the hypothesis of ferment action he suggests that the ferment
is formed in the cotyledons and excreted from them into the endo
sperm.
    During all this period, our ideas of the actual transformation of the
fatty matter have rested upon hypothesis rather than experiment.
 Sachs's first work only noted the coincident disappearance of oil and
appearance of starch.           He does not say that the two processes go
on together      in  the same cells nor even in the same regions of the
seed, the starch in Bicinus appearing, most copiously in the embryo,
the oil vanishing from the endosperm.                        Nor has the ferment,
suggested by Schiitzenberger, been identified, the chief argument for
its existence having been derived from Hoppe-Seyler's description of
a very similar change in the fats during pancreatic digestion by
animals.  | Nor       have we, beyond Detmer's hypothesis already quoted,
any attempt to trace the fate of the glycerine and fatty acids formed.
The whole question of the mode of the absorption of the fatty
reserves of the endosperm by the embryo and their way of passing
   * Op. eit.
              '
   + Sachs,     Vorlesungen   fiber   Pflanzen-Physiologie,'   1882.    English Edition.
Ward,   1887, p. 347.
                                          '
      Detmer, op. cit., p. 338; Vines,      Physiology of Plants,' p. 190.
   X                                                                       ^/

              Germination     of  the Seed  of the Castor- oil Plant          373
 from cell to cell has also remained unexplained, except by Sachs's
first hypothesis of their ultimate conversion through the form of
starch into sugar, and by a suggestion he makes that some of the oil
at least passes as such through the cell walls of the endosperm into
the cotyledon.
    In taking up the subject where it had thns been left by previous
investigators, and endeavouring to throw further light on the several
 steps that had been established by them,         I  commenced to work upon
the seed of the castor-oil plant (Ricinus communis), and             I set before
me the following problems          : —
    1st. By what agencies are the reserve materials made available for
            the nutrition of the embryo ?
    2nd. In what condition and by what process do they undergo
            absorption ?
    3rd. What parts are played in the process of germination              by the
            endosperm and by the embryo respectively ?
    I selected  Bicinus  as the material      to work upon, because the con
tents of the seed have been            accurately ascertained, and found to
contain a large quantity of oil ; and because the process of germination
is not prolonged.       A few of the points that arose during the work          I
also investigated on the seed of the nocoanut palm (Cocos nucifera).
   The seeds of the castor-oil plant consist of a central embryo,
embedded in a mass of endosperm, the whole incased by a hard testa.
The micropyle is protected by a well-developed caruncle.               A section
of the endosperm shows the cells to be nearly filled with oil, which
exudes on pressing the bruised seed.             This oil can bo removed by-
solvents, when the cells are found to contain also stores of proteid in
the form of aleurone grains embedded in protoplasm, the grains con
taining each a crystalloid of proteid and a small aggregation of
mineral matter.       Starch is not present, nor is more than a trace of
sugar to be found, and this small amount is not constant.               There is
no great amount of cellulose, the cell walls being very thin and the
cells of fair size. No glucoside can be detected in the cells.
    The amount of oil to be found is stated differently by different
observers.     According to Harz,* the quantity varies from 40 to
68 per cent., the highest figure being quoted by Cloez.             Blumenbach
puts it at 50 per cent.       I  found a fair sample of the seeds to yield
58 per cent, of their dry weight.             The oil is somewhat complex,
yielding, on saponification, according to Lecanu and Buffy,f three
fatty acids, ricinstearic, ricinic, and ricinoleic, of which the latter
is the    most abundant.        It   has the composition    represented    by the
formula    C18Hg403.
                *  '
                     Landwirthsch. Samenkunde,' 1885, p. 836.
                t  Harz, ' Landwirthsch. Sainenkunde," 1885, p. 836.

374                     Prof.   J.   R. Green.      On the
    The proteids were investigated in detail by Vines,* who speaks of
 them as consisting of members of the peptone and globulin classes,
the former being soluble in water, the latter in solutions of NaCl.
  I. Agencies  by which these reserve materials are made available           for the
                               use   of the Embryo.
    The first two problems divided themselves at once into two sections,
the first of which involved the changes in the oil, the second those in
the proteids.     They were investigated separately.
                                    (i.) The Oil.
    Both Miintz and Schiitzenberger had suggested the probability of
the changes in the oil being due to the action of a ferment.                My own
work on the proteolytic changes in the germination of the lupinf
proved a similar cause in connexion with tho proteids of that plant.
In   endorsing   Schiitzenberger's       suggestion,    Sachs, in 1882,    J  put it
forward    as probable, from his investigations          on the seed of the date
(Phoenix dactylifera), that the embryo of the young plant, on the
onset of germination, formed and excreted ferments to change the
reserve materials into a form suitable for absorption.
    Some seeds of Bicinus were germinated for five days, until the
young plants had developed a good root system, and about half the
endosperm had disappeared.                The seeds were then taken up,
the endosperms separated from the cotyledons, and the cotyledons
from the hypocotyledonary portion of the embryo.                     Extracts were
made of the endosperms and of the cotyledons, the fluids used being
5 per cent, salt solution and glycerine, in both of which ferments are
known to be soluble.           Putrefaction     was obviated when the salt
solution was used by the addition of 0'2 per cent, of potassic cyanide,
which was found efficacious in preventing the appearance of bacteria.
In the course of the investigation several such extracts were made,
the salt solution ones being, on the whole, the most satisfactory.
    Experiments were then made to ascertain whether, in the extracts,
anything was present which was capable of starting chemical changes
in the oil, and, if so, whether that body was of the nature of a
ferment.     The change first to be expected was the splitting up of the
oil into fatty acid or acids and glycerine.           5 c.c. of the extract of the
endosperms was mixed with 10 c.c. of an emulsion of castor oil, and
set aside in a test-tube in a bath or incubator, at a temperature of
37° C.    A control was kept by preparing a similar tube after boiling
                  * '
                      Journal of Physiology,' vol. 3, pp.  93 — 114.
                    '
                  +   Phil. Trans.,' B, 1887, pp. 39-59.
                  J  Op. tit.

           Germination of     the Seed   of the Castor-oil Plant.     375
the 5 c.c. extract.      No change was apparent for some hours, but
gradually the unboiled tube became acid, while the control remained
unchanged.       Different extracts varied somewhat in the amount of
acidity thus caused, but the difference between the boiled and un
boiled tubes was soon evident.       A fairly typical experiment is sub
joined : —
     Tube F was prepared by mixing the extract and +he emulsion of
 castor oil in the proportions given above, and was put into an in
 cubator at 12.30 o'clock on August 22, 1888. A boiled control was
put with         labelled Fj. Both were carefully made neutral.
               it,                                                       At
4   p.m. 10 drops litmus solution were added to each.        F was acid,Fj
 neutral. The degree of acidity was in this short time only slight,
 and addition of O'l c.c. of Na^CC^ solution of 0-3 per cent, strength
 again neutralised it.      Replacing the tubes in the incubator and
 leaving them till next morning,    F had again become acid. A further
 addition of the same alkali was made to the contents of this tube, and
 neutrality was obtained when 1"75 c.c. had been added. The action
  had been, during the longer exposure, more than proportionately
  vigorous. No change took place in the control tube.
    A   similar set of experiments with the extract of the cotyledons
  failed to produce any evidence of ferment action, the reaction of the
 liquids always remaining unchanged.
     So far as the oil   isconcerned, therefore, the experiments confirm
  the hypothesis of Schiitzenberger, that there      a ferment in the seeds
                                                    is
  which can develop fatty acid from the oil.
     Another experiment was then carried out, extending over a longer
  time, dialysing tubes being used instead of glass vessels. The extracts
  were prepared by salt solution         per cent. NaCl
                                         (.5                 +0'2 per cent.
  KCN), and were dialysed before use till nearly free from NaCl, this
  being found to hinder the action somewhat.       The proportion of KCN
  was kept constant during the experiment.
     One fluid ounce of castor oil was made into     athick emulsion with
  gum and 10 c.c. of the dialysed extract stirred into it.         This was
  put into dialysing tube and suspended in 200 c.c. of a solution con
         0 a                                 per cent. KCN (No. 1).
  taining  6    per cent, NaCl and        0
                                          2                             A
  control was prepared in the same proportion, boiling the 10 c.c.
  extract (No. 2). The two were kept in the incubator for a week.
  During this time the emulsion in No. became gradually purple, and
                                               1
  then reddish     that in No.
                     ;          2  remained blue.    The reactions of the
  dialysates did not change.
     On concentrating the two dialysates at the end of the experiment,
  glycerine was detected in that of No.      while No.
                                               1,        2 contained none.
     The ferment in the extract had liberated fatty acid and glycerine,,
  and both had become traceable.       It was noteworthy, too, that the
   body causing the acidity had not passed through the dialyser.

 376                          Prof.   J. R.   Green.   On the
   The ferment found, therefore, like the ferment in the pancreatic juice
 of animals, is capable of decomposing fats into fatty acids and glycerine.
   The activity of this ferment, like that of so many others, was
found   to be largely influenced by the reaction of the medium in
which it was caused to work. A set of experiments on this point is
subjoined :—
  Five tubes, A — E, were taken, and in each 5 c.c. of a ferment
extract, carefully neutralised, were set to work on 5 c.c. emulsion of
castor oil.  They were made of different reactions, as under: —
   A   contained 0'066 per cent. HC1.
   B         „         0133       „
   C         „         0066      „       Na2CO,.
   D    „              066
   E was left neutral,   as much water being added to it as was added to
each  of the others with  their respective acid or alkali. Aj, B,, Cv Dj, El
were controls prepared like the others, but with boiled extract.
   After 3£ hours they were examined by the addition to each of
10 drops solution of litmus, when A and E became pinker than their
controls, B about equal to Bj.      C was less alkaline than Cj, but the
D set were relatively unchanged.        Titration of the tubes with weak
alkali as before showed that the ferment works best in neutral solution,
is hindered by as little as 0'066 per cent, of HCl, and stopped by 0-133
per cent, of HOI. It is hindered by alkalis also, but works quite well in
them   if   the solution is weak, 0'066 per cent,      of Na2COs only retarding
the action slightly ; 0'66 per cent., however, stopped      it entirely.
   Neither the 0133 per cent. HCl nor the 0'66 per cent. Na9COs de
stroyed the ferment, for, on neutralising the four tubes, B, Bj, D, D,,
and allowing them to stand in the incubator for several hours, action
began again in. both the unboiled ones.    The energy of the two was,
however, very different, for the acid liberated by the ferment in D
was five times the amount set free in B in the same time.          The
activities of B, D, and E, tested during eighteen hours, are repre
sented by the following figures : —
                 B.                            D.                     E.
  Exposed to 0133 per                 Exposed to 0'66 per       Kept neutral
     cent. HCl for        'i\         cent. Na3C03 for   8$     all the time,
        hours, and then                 hours, and then
          neutralised.                     neutralised.
                 10.                            60.                 85.
   The ferment was by similar experiments found to be absent from
the resting seeds.    Analogy with other ferments of both animal and
vegetable  origin  pointed to its probable existence here in the form of
a. zymogen.     To test this point, several experiments were made.
Some resting seeds were ground and treated with ether to extract

                     Germination      of the   Seed   of the Castor-oil Plant.                377
the oil.Half the powder was then extracted by the usual solution of
XaCl and KCN, while the rest was extracted in the incubator by-
weak acetic scid, only so strong as to be just perceptible by the
                                                          respectively A
tongue.   These two extracts were filtered, and labelled
and B,   B being then carefully neutralised.     Part of A was then
acidified with weak acetic acid, and warmed to 35°      for three hours,    (5.
and then neutralised.   This was labelled C.
   On testing them all with castor oil emulsion in the usual way, side
by side with boiled controls, A developed no acid,        and     both            B       C
showed its liberation, giving evidence of the development of ferment
by the weak acetic acid.    This behaviour    precisely similar to the
                                                              is
influence of the same reagent on extracts of the resting pancreas.
On allowing extract A to stand in the laboratory for nine days and
then again testing it, there was evidence of the presence of ferment,
liberated by keeping it. It was not, however, 6o active as extract                             C,
where the transformation had been brought about by the acetic
acid.
                                        (ii.) The Proteids.
      The oil
            only a part of the reserve material present in the seeds,
                     is
and as so much proteid matter also     present in their cells, some ex
                                                      is
periments were  made  to see   a further ferment
                                           if       present having a   is
  proteolytic function.
    The proteid in the seed had been stated by Vines* to be mixture                   a
  of peptone and globulin, the crystalloid consisting of the latter.
    Some ground resting seeds were extracted with water and subse
 quently with salt solution.        Both extracts were found to give a
 coagulum on boiling, which was most copious in the second case, and
 separated out completely            little HN03 was added. This was
                                         if    a
 Vines's globulin.      After filtering off this precipitate while hot,
another proteid was found to be left in solution, which was precipi
 tated as the liquid cooled, and redissolved when     was warmed again.
                                                                     it
 There was much less of this than of the first one. No dialysable
proteid was present.      The first proteid found by Vines was therefore
not a peptone, as he supposed, but an albumose.f
    The method adopted in searching for a proteolytic ferment in the
germinating seeds was exactly the same as the one        had used in the
                                                                       I
case of the lupin,    and J the results showed that again here, as there,
a tryptic ferment        developed during germination, which can split
                                 is
up fibrin with formation of peptone and crystalline bodies, in
cluding tyrosin.
 *       Loc. cit.
                    " On the Proteids in
         Cf. Martin                      Papau-juice."             Journal of Physiology,' vol.
                                                              '
t
6,   p. 354.
     X
         •
             Phil. Trans.,' B,   1887, pp. 39—69.
     VOL. XLVIII.                                                                     2   D

378                       Prof.    J. R. Green.       On the
    Thus   the germinating      seeds are seen to contain at least two   fermentt,
both working towards the utilisation of the reserve materials in the nutri
tion of the embryo.
    The glyceridc ferment is capable only of producing fatty acid and
glycerine from the oil. The changes cannot, however, end with this
decomposition.       Fleury had noticed in 1865* that there was free acid
formed during germination.            Miintz had pointed out that the reaction
of the embryo was strongly acid, and that at no stage in the germina
tion could he detect glycerine in any of the tissues.t Again, sugar is
present in the germinating endosperms in abundance.
     Before making experiments on the possible decompositions of the
bodies resulting from the action of the ferments, it seemed advisable
to examine more carefully the contents of the endosperm.                     Some
seeds were germinated till the endosperms were on the point of sepa
rating from the cotyledons ; they were then removed, and the endo
sperms ground up in a mortar with distilled water.                   This solntion
was strongly acid.         It filtered nearly clear, but was a little opales
 cent, which appearance was found under the microscope to be due to
very minute drops of oil or fatty acid.                   The solution was then
dialysed    with   distilled  water     for  two    days, when the dialysate was
found to be acid in reaction.          The power of dialysis of the free fatty
 acids was presumably small, they being extremely greasy liquids, very
 much like the oil itself. Careful experiments showed that they had
 no power of dialysis, or at most an extremely feeble one, whether
 tested as they were or made up into an emulsion.                 After two days'
 exposure    in  a  dialyser,     the  outside   liquid   had the merest  trace of
 acidity. The experiment noted above.f when the digestion was
 carried out in a dialyser, also negatives the theory of their being able
to pass a membrane, for, though glycerine passed out during the
 experiment, the action of the dialysate remained neutral. As, then,
 ricinoleic acid will not dialyse, there was evidently another acid in
 the germinating endosperm.               The dialysate of its extract was next
 evaporated to dryness on a water-bath, and the residue extracted with
 ether. A certain amount of insoluble matter was left, and the extract
 therefore filtered.      On slowly evaporating the ether, it deposited a
 crystalline residue, which was freely soluble in water with a resulting
 acid reaction.
     Ail extract   of the cotyledons gave exactly similar results. This
 new acid was really the cause of the acid reaction of the whole of the
  tissues of the young plant, already shown to exist by several of the
 writers already quoted.
      The extracts themselves, of both endosperms and cotyledons,
                                         * Op. tit.
                                         t Op. tit.
                                         X V. 375.

             Germination   of the  Seed of the Castor-oil Plant.         379
deposited on evaporation a residne which gave np to ether a little
oily matter, as well as this crystallisable acid, differing thus from the
dialy sates.   In both extracts evidently there existed a mixture of the
crystallisable acid with oil and fatty acid.
   The fatty acids are also present in the cells. A further quantity of
the germinating endosperms was extracted by ether for two days, and
the liquid decanted and filtered.        A greasy residue was left, the
greater part of which was insoluble in water.         Unlike the oil, it was
largely soluble    in 0"2 per cent.  NaHO.     A  solution  in this reagent,
when neutralised      by HC1, gave a white curdy precipitate.      This was
soluble again in more alkali, and was again thrown down on acidify
ing. This behaviour was exactly reproduced by some pure ricinolekj
acid supplied by Schuchardt.
    The extract of the cotyledons contained a little, but not much, of
this fatty acid. It seemed likely that a good deal of the contents of
the disintegrating endosperm cells might be adhering to the cotyle
dons, and another experiment was therefore made, using cotyledons
that had been carefully washed in 0-2 per cent. NaHO to remove any
such debris. This weak soda solution, after the washing,, gave an
opalescence with HC1, and the extract made of the washed cotyledons
was found to contain a very faint trace of the fatty acid.
    The germinating endosperms, tested with iodine under the micro
scope, were found to contain no starch.          There was starch only in
certain regions of the young embryo.            On testing a piece of the
germinating endosperm with Fehling's fluid a copious redaction was
observed.     The extracts made and used      as described   above also gave
evidence of the presence of sugar.        lr. the extract of the ungermi-
 nated seeds very much less was present.           22 grams of these were
found on careful titration to contain 0'025 gram, or 0-ll per cent, of
sugar; calculated     as dextrose.   The quantitative examination of the
germinating     seeds showed a great increase,   which appeared to proceed
side by side with the disappearance of the oil.            18 grams of dry
 weight of endosperms were taken and thoroughly extracted by ether.
 The seeds from which the endosperms were picked had a root now
 about 3 inches long, with secondary roots attached.             The loss of
 weight after the ether extraction was 4' 7 grams, or about 26 per cent.
 The ether extracted not only the oil that remained unchanged, but
 certain of the products of its decomposition, viz., the fatty acid and
 the crystallisable acid then present in the endosperm.          The resting
 seeds contained 58 per cent, of oil, so that 32 per cent., calculated on
 the weight of the endosperm, or 55 per cent, of the total oil, had
 disappeared, while some of that which was still traceable had been at
 least partially decomposed.        The endosperm was next thoroughly
 exhausted with boiling absolute alcohol, which extracted all the
 sugar present.      This was evaporated to a syrup, dissolved in water,
                                                                2 d 2

380                      Prof. J.  R. Green.      On the
 and titrated, when it was found to contain 0'174 gram of sugar,
j-eckoned as dextrose, or 097 per cent, of the original dry weight.
 Without taking into account the amount that had been absorbed,
 which must have been very considerable, as the young plant had
attained a great degree of development, there was still present almost
 ten times as much as in the resting seed.
    Examination of the proteid constituents in the germinating endo
 sperm, showed that in addition to the undecomposed proteids found
in the resting seeds peptone was present. The quantity obtainable
 from different extracts was not uniform, some being very rich and
 others containing but little. The cotyledons were removed from some
of the advanced seeds and extracted with water in dialysers. After
 two days the dialysates were concentrated to small bulk, and acetate
of zinc added. This caused a precipitate, which was filtered off,
 washed, and suspended in water.             The zinc was removed by H3S.
 and the watery solution concentrated again, when it deposited crystals
of asparagin.
    The endosperm, examined in the same way, was found to contain
no perceptible amount of this substance.
    On examining some of the endosperms after a prolonged period
of germination, carried indeed so far that there was only a thin,
almost    slimy casing over the cotyledons, the cells were found to be
 empty of solid contents, except a thin layer of protoplasm, and the
cell walls were disintegrating and disappearing.             No substances
could   be extracted now, except a small amount of sugar and some of
 the crystallisable acid described above.         Absorption was still pro
ceeding, though the young plant had attained a considerable
development.
    The germinating endosperm was thus found to contain oil, free
 fatty acid, a crystallisable acid, a greatly increased quantity of sugar,
 peptone, and unaltered proteids.          No glycerine was present.   The
 embryo contained also a certain amount of asparagin.          These bodies
 are not all due to the action of the ferments. The latter cannot decom
 pose the fatty acid, nor produce the dialysable one.          Nor can the
augar be traced to its activity.        The first problem then is partially
 salved by the identification of the ferments, but the work of the
 glyceride one, at least, needs supplementing by further activity con
nected with vital processes taking place in the endosperm cells under
 conditions to be discussed later,* and under the influence of the
 protoplasm of these cells.
              IL  Mode of Absorption of the Reserve Materials.
    The form and manner in which these different reserve materials
are absorbed has, as before mentioned, been the subject of hypothesis.
                             *               tej.
                               Cf. p. 384 et

            Germination    of the  Seed   of  the  Castor-oil Plant.       381
Sachs* held that, as the cells of the cotyledons of IHcinus contain oil
after germination has commenced, this oil mnst have the power of
passing through cell walls, and even through the epidermis of the
cotyledons.
    Detrner,t on the other hand, suggests that, like starch, it becomes
a material capable of dialysis, and travels by such means, the oil
¦which   appears in the cotyledons and other parts being due to a
re-formation at the spot at which it is found, as is the case with
transitory starch.
    The structure of the cotyledon shows that the actual passage of
oil into it would be a matter of very great difficulty. Its outer
epidermis is separated from the cells of the endosperm by a very
thick layer of cell walls, the remains of cells whose contents have
been absorbed ; and microscopic           examination     of this layer while"
absorption is proceeding fails to detect any fat in its thickness.          All
analogy points too to dialysis as the mode of absorption, and the
forms in which the reserve materials are to be found in the endosperm
during germination indicate such a process as the probable one.
    Of the various bodies found, sugar and the crvstallisable acid are
easily capable of dialysis, and are obtainable from the cotyledons.
Peptone also can pass through a membrane.                  Asparagiu can be
detected on the cotyledonary side, but not in the endosperm. Peptone,
however, is not to be detected in the cotyledons.
    Besides these, thore are to be found in the yoang plant a eertain
amount of oil, some considerable quantity of starch, and a trace of
fatty acid.
    The form of absorption of the nitrogenous matter seems to be
that of asparagin, for peptone, though formed, does not seem to
leave the endosperm.       This is in accordance with the condition in
            J
the lupin, where the nitrogenous matter travels in the same way,
peptone being only a stage in its formation. The fact that asparagin
is not traceable in the endosperm is not a valid objection to this
view, for it is quite possible that it is absorbed as fast as formed, or
that so little is left behind that it escapes observation.
    Detmer's hypothesis seems to account satisfactorily for the appear
ance of the oil in the young plant, and, if valid, it explains also the
trace of fatty acid there.      The latter could only be explained other
wise by its having, either in the free state, or in the form of one of
its salts, the power of dialysis.            Experiments already recorded
negative the idea of its diulysing in the free state.             Some careful
investigations   were   made   as  to  the    behaviour  of  its alkaline salts,
 fcome ricinoleic acid was made into soaps with different strengths of
                               * Op. dt., p. 347.
                               t Op. tit., p. 870.
                               J  Green, op. cit.

382                      Prof.  J.  R. Green.        On   the
soda solution, and these were dialysed for two days in freshly teste!
 dialysers.  I  expected to find that, instead of dialysing intact, there
wonld    be a decomposition, and that the fatty acid would be left
behind, while the alkali escaped.            Contrary to this expectation, the
dialysates  in   all  cases   gave  a  marked     opalescence, or a curdy preci
pitate, with HC1, the ricinoleic acid being liberated thereby from
soap which had passed the dialyser.           Subsequent careful examination
of the dialysing tube proved it to be intact. The experiment, though
not without interest, does not throw any light on the mode of
absorption of the acid, for, on neutralising or making slightly acid,
the soap is decomposed, and the fatty acid liberated. As the reaction
of both endosperm and cotyledon is acid, it is clear that the fatty
acid does not pass from the one to the other in the form of a soap.
   The occurrence of the starch must be similarly explained.                        It
results, as in other plants, from the transformation of the sugar
which has been absorbed.             In sections of the hypocotyledonary
portion of the   axis  I  found   some   roundish bodies, which when heated
with iodine stained brown.           With a Js objective these brownish
bodies   were   seen   to   contain    small crescent shaped bodies which
were dark blue.      Some contained two, others three or four, of these.
There is little doubt that these were amyloplasts, containing starch
grains of very small size, but in course of formation.             I  did not succeed
in identifying these in the cotyledons, though starch appeared there in
small grains.       Gris* has figured bodies exactly corresponding to
these, and he says he finds them in the cells of the epidermis of the
cotyledon.
   An examination of the relative quantities of these different
conditions of the fatty reserve materials present at different stages
of the germination confirmed the view given above. The disappear
ance of oil and coincident increase of sugar have already been
commented on. The relations between the oil and the fatty and
crystallisable acids were separately determined.                  Some seeds were
germinated    in an incubator, and samples were examined at intervals
of twenty -four hours from their being sown. Care was taken to have
all the seeds of about the same size, and as much alike as possible.
Two sets of experiments were made, in one the quantities of the
different constituents of the whole seed and resulting plant being
examined — in the other those in the endosperms alone.
   Each sample was crushed and extracted by ether, the extract
being evaporated to dryness, and the amount of residue roughly
estimated.    This residue was then stirred well with water, which was
syphoned off, and added for twenty -four hours to the remains of the
crushed endosperms now freed from the ether.                         The extract so
obtained was examined for . crystallisable acid and for sugar.                    The
               *  '
                    Ann. des Sci. Nat.,' Ser. 5, Bot., vol. 2, 1364.

            Germination      of the   Seed    of the Castor-oil Plant.                383
Residue left by the ether, after being washed with water as described
to remove any soluble acid, was treated with weak alkali (0'2 per
cent. NaHO) to remove fatty acid, and this alkali afterwards acidified
by HC1 to set free the fatty acid from the soap formed. Coincidently
with each experiment, endosperms of the same age were examined
for glycerine.
   The following tables give the results of the experiments: —
                      Table   I. — Whole Plant       examined.
   Time
             Degree    of develop       Residue deposited
 germinat                                                        Oil found in     same.
                ment of embryo.             by the ether.
     ing.
    hours
      24    Seeds    just cracking                             Bulk of residue.
               testa
      48    Primary root 1 cm.                                 75 —80 per cent.
               long
      72    Lateral roots emerg       Slightly less in bulk,   50 per cent., about.
               ing                       greasy
      96    Boot system spread        Still    less.   Water   20—30 per cent.
               ing                       mixed with the fat
    120     Large root system . . .   Less still.     Getting  About half last quan
                                         watery                   tity.
    168     Endosperm nearly all      All soluble in water     None.
               absorbed
    Time
              Fatty acid found       Acid soluble in HjO
 germinat                                                                 Sugar.
                   in same.            found in embryo.
     ing.
    hours
      24                           25 c.c. extract neutral     Trace.
                                     ised by '9 c.c. of -2 per
                                     cent. NaHO
      48    20—25 per cent.        25 c.c. required L66 c.c    More.
                                     acid
      72    50 per cent., about .  25 c.c. required 2°3 c.c.   Fair     reaction with
                                      acid                        Fehling's fluid.
      96    70—80 per cent.        25 c.c. required 2-6 c.c.   Good reaction.
                                      acid
    120                            Very acid reaction, did     About as last.
                                     not test quantitatively
    168                                                        About     as last.
   Two or three points of interest appear in this table.                   The gradual
disappearance of the oil is accompanied by a rise in the quantity of
fatty acid up to the fourth day. This then diminishes in turn, and
at the end of the period, while still some endosperm is left, both have

384                     Prof.  J. R. Green.    On the
disappeared. The amount of material extracted by the ether is about
the same for the first three days, when it gradually and regularly
diminishes, and at the same time gradually changes its character, be
coming much more acid, and containing increasing quantities of water.
The endosperm altogether is much more watery at that stage, a certain
amount coming away with the ether, and having to be separated by
 decantation before evaporating the latter.      At the conclusion of the
 period, a considerable amount of acid is left in the endosperm, which is
 soluble in water and in ether. The quantities of this acid and of the
 sugar increase up to the fourth day, and then remain fairly constant,
a slight further increase only being noticed in the acid.        This is to
 be accounted   for by the rapid development of the plant at about that
 time, the material leaving the endosperm being that at whose expense
 this growth takes place.
    No glycerine could    be detected in the endosperms throughout.
    In  the second set of experiments, in which the endosperms were
 separated from the embryos, no quantitative estimation was made
 of the sugar, as its formation coincidently with the disappearance of
 the oil had been noted continually.
    Taking the endosperms alone as shown in the table (p. 385), they
 bear out the hypothesis based upon the examination of the whole plant.
 The acid which was dialysable increased in the endosperms up to the
 fourth day, and then gradually diminished, pointing to an absorption
 taking place at    a rather faster rate than its formation.   Taking the
 whole plant, the acid increased slightly after this time, showing that
 it was not used in the growing-points quite so rapidly as it was
 absorbed, but still was undergoing metamorphosis there.
    The fact that at the close of the period during which the endo
 sperm supplies nutriment to the embryo only sugar and dialysable
  acid are present in its cells, besides a little proteid matter, seems a
 fair indication, that these are the bodies into which the reserve
  material of the oil is transformed for absorption.
     The reserve materials of the resting endosperm are thus found to
  be all replaced by derivatives which are capable of absorption by
  dialysis.
     There is still left a very important question to discuss.     Starting
  with oil and proteids in the resting seed, we find crystallisable acid,
  sugar, and asparagin passing into the young embryo, and we note
  intermediate bodies in the shape of the various fatty acids present in
  castor oil, and of peptone.       We find, further, that glycerine which
  can be liberated from the oil by the ferment, and by laboratory
  methods, escapes notice however closely it is looked for.      What    are
  the probable decompositions that take place, and how           can these
  explain the various products found ?
     We have clearly first the splitting of the oil into the fatty acids

             Germination           of the    Seed   of the Castor-oil Plant.                   385
                    Table       II.— Endosperms           only Examined.
                                                                                      Acid solu
                                                                                     ble in H20.
                                                                                     Amounts of
   Time      Water
                                Besidue                                             0'2 per cent.
     of   present in                           Oil found
                              from ether                           Fatty acid.        NaHO    re
  germi    the endo                             in same.
                              extraction.                                             quired to
  nation.    sperm.
                                                                                     neutralise
                                                                                      20 c.c. in
                                                                                      each ease.
   hours
    24    None     ....     Copious,         Nearly whole      A   drop   or two    1 c.c.
                               greasy         bulk              on    surface    of
                                                                solution of the
                                                                soap after add
                                                                ing HC1
    48    None     ....     About same       A little   less   Thin scum, not       1-8 c.c.
                             amount and                         covering the so
                             character                          lution of the
                                                                soap after add
                                                                ing HC1
    72    None     ....     As No. 8   . . .  Not much     . . Scum      covering   1 -4 c.c.
                                                                the       solutiou
                                                                treated as be
                                                                fore
    96    A   trace   . .   Less        in   Few drops.      . Thin scum    on so   2 15 c.c.
                            amount and                          lution
                            losing grea
                            sy character
   120    More    .... Still         less                      Curdy      precipi   1 85 o.e.
                             watery      in                     tate   with HCL
                             character                          flouting to top
                                                                of solution
   168    flood deal        Hurdly any Mere         trace. .   Less than in last    1 -7 c.c.
                             oily matter
                             in it. Crys-
                             tallisable
                             matter pre
                             sent
   192    As No. 6      .   No oily mat                        Mere trace           Did not ti
                             ter    appa                                              trate.
                             rent
and glycerine.         That there is a connexion between the former and
the acid which passes into the cotyledon seems certain when we com
pare the formation of the latter as the former disappears, and remem
ber that the fatty acids themselves are not capable of dialysis.                               Tho
transformation is not brought about by the agency of the ferment,
nor is anything excreted by the cotyledon which will bring about the
change.    It must not be forgotten that the endosperm is the seat of
many processes of oxidation, for, as already stated, Detmer has shown
the germinatipn           is accompanied by a constant evolution of CO.,.

386                       Prof.     J.   R. Green.        On the
DefSaussnre has traced out the same process, showing, too, that there
is during the germination a constant absorption of oxygen.             Even
more light is thrown upon the point by the statement of Godlewski,*
that this absorption of oxygen is not, as De Saussure believed, greater
than the output of C02 throughout the whole period.           He states that
it is not till the radicle protrudes that the oxygen is taken up in
greater quantity, and he points out that as the fat disappears from
the seed, the inequality between the oxygen absorbed and the COs
exhaled gets less and less.   It is just at this period that the fatty acid
is being replaced by the dialysable one, as shown in the tables given
above. That gentle oxidation of the fatty acids is possible is shown
 by Hazura and Grussner.f who state that when alkaline solutions of
 the liquid fatty acids of castor oil are oxidised by permanganate of
 potash several derivatives are formed, including some of the lower
 members of the series of fatty acids.      KrafftJ also states that when
 ricinoleic acid is oxidised with nitric acid, normal heptylic acid is
 formed, together with azelaic and oxalic acids.       Unfortunately, have     I
 not been able to get sufficient quantity of the acid which is formed
 during germination to enable me to ascertain its identity. The plant
 itself at that age is very small, and though the reaction of the acid to
 litmus-paper is very well marked, the quantities occurring in any case
 are too small for analysis.
    The disappearance of the glycerine              is,
                                              in all probability, to be asso
 ciated with the appearance of the sugar.       The possible sources of the
 latter are only three, the fatty acids, the proteids, and the glycerine.
 That sugar results from the former of these          very unlikely.
                                                            is         Theo
 retically there seems to be a possibility of the change, but no labo
 ratory experiments have yet succeeded in bringing          about. Fischer§
                                                                   it
 has recently shown that certain acids     can,  by  a process of reduction,
 give rise to sugar, but these are not such acids as those occurring
 here. The great probability, too, of the fate of the fatty acids being
  that suggested above weighs heavily against their furnishing the
  sugar.   The proteids, too, can be accounted for in another way, as
 appears below.     There remains, then, only the glycerine.
     Fischer has established the fact that the transformation of
 glycerine into sugar        possible, and the famous experiments of
                               is
  Luchsinger|| upon glycerine as an antecedent of glycogen in the course
  of the hepatic metabolism bear upon the same point.             The ready
  appearance of sugar is, by this hypothesis, accounted for, and the
  fact that
          it   appears side by side with the fatty acid in the endosperm
               • Pringsheim,    '
                                 Jahrb. Botan.,' vol. 13, 1882.
                    Monatsh.    Chemie,' vol.
                               f.                pp. 475 — 484.
                                                   9,
               +
                  '
           I'       Deutech. Chem. Ges. Ber.,' vol. 21, 1888, pp. 2730—2737.
            §
                  '
                    Deutsch. Chem. Ges. Ber.,' vol. 22, p. 2204.
                   Pfliiger's Arohiv,' vol.   1874, and vol. 18, 1878.
                                              8,
                           '
             ||

               Germination     of the  Seed   of the  Castor-oil Plant.          387
is what would be expected.              It is unlikely to be derived from the
fatty acid, for the disappearance of a small quantity of this is accom
panied by the appearance; of a small quantity of the lower acid ; it is
also unlikely to be derived from the latter, from the fact that both
appear synchronously, both increase together, and both are left when
the endosperm is finishing its work.              Further, the glycerine set free
by the decomposition of the oil is sufficient in quantity to account for
all the sugar formed.*
    There is, of course, another possible alternative.             Vines suggestst
that the glycerine may undergo oxidation at once with acids, and may
be therefore represented by the acids found.                This, though possible,
seems unlikely, as these last are so much more readily traced to the
fatty acid part of the disrupted oil molecule, and especially as we are
then reduced to the hypothesis that the sugar comes from the lower
acids formed, which has been seen to be improbable.
    There is still another theory which needs notice. It is put forward
by VinesJ to explain what Sachs has said, as to starch resulting from
the transformation         of fat : — " The processes which attend the early
stages of the germination of an oilj seed may be briefly stated thus :
protoplasm undergoes decomposition to form starch, and the continued
formation of starch depends upon the reconstruction of protoplasm
from the nitrogenous residues of previous decomposition, together
with some form of non-nitrogenous organic substance ; the non-
nitrogenous substance in question is fat."                The argument appears
unnecessary now that experiments already quoted show that Sachs is
in error as to the formation of starch in the endosperm cells during
normal germination, but the form of the carbohydrate is not material,
and the hypothesis may be advanced to explain the appearance of
sugar.      It is clear, however, that, if a direct conversion of some ante
cedent into sugar is possible, it is a much more probable thing than
 the round-about method suggested.              The theory seems called for only
to explain an otherwise inexplicable phenomenon, and might as fairly
 be put forward to explain the appearance of sugar as starch disappears,
 an appearance which is known to be due to a direct transformation of
 the latter.
    • Since this paper   tu  read, Messrs. Brown   and Morris have published in the
 "Journal of the Chemical Society"       (June,  1890) an important research on the
germination of some of the Gramineffi. Some of their results have a bearing on the
point under notice.     They find that excised barley em.bryoes can be nourished on a
solution of glycerine, and under such circumstances a considerable amount of
 growth takes place in them, which is accompanied by the production of starch in
their tissues, just as when they are fed with a solution of sugar. The appearance
of carbohydrate at the expense of glycerine is established by their experiments. —
J.  R. G., July 10, 1890.
    t Op. fit., p. 229.
    J Op. eit., p. 206.

388                         Prof.   J. R.     Green.    On the
    The fate of the resting proteids presents no difficulty. Trans
formed by the proteolytic ferment into peptone and later into as-
paragin, we can trace them at once into the cotyledons.                        There is
not a very great store of proteid in the seed ; and in the young plant,
at any rate before the development of chlorophyll, there is a con
siderable amount of asparagin.                 A comparison with the processes in
the In pin, where the transformations can be worked out without the
complication of the metamorphosis of a large amount of oil, indi
cates the course of events.            In so many other plants, too, the fact of
the transport of nitrogenous matter in the form of soluble amides
towards the seats of growth has been established, that it seems
unnecessary to look for any other form in this case.*
 III.   The parts played by the Embryo and the Endosperm respectively in
                              the Process of Germination.
     Allusion has already been made to the statement of Sachs, that              f
 the ferments which cause decompositions in the reserve materials are
 always formed in the young plant or embryo, and are excreted from
 the latter into the endosperm.                He quotes especially in support of
 this view the fate of the seeds of Zea Mais, and those which, like the
 date, have their non-nitrogenous reserves laid up in the form of cellu
 lose.    Some years before,J Gris claimed to have established that the
 endosperm was, during germination, the seat of an independent life,
as much as the embryo was, and was by no means a passive con
 tributor to the latter.         Some careful experiments were conducted by
Van Tieghem, and published by him in 1877, § to which no allusion
 is made by Sachs, but which throw an important light upon this
 question.       Part of his work, like that of Gris, was carried out on
 llicinus, seeds of which plant were deprived, by careful dissection, of
 their embryos, and were exposed on damp moss for some weeks to a
 temperature of 25 — 30° C. After several days of this exposure he
 found the isolated endosperms were growing considerably, and at the
 end of a month they had doubled their dimensions.                    The change was
 caused by the enlargement of the constituent cells and the develop
 ment of air-spaces between them.                  In the interior of the cells he
 found the aleurone grains to be gradually dissolving, and the oily
 matter to be diminishing, though slowly. The dissolution extended
 throughout the mass of the endosperm, and was not especially pro
 minent on the side that had been nearest to the cotyledons.                          He
    *              '
       Cf. Sachs,    Yorlesungen   fiber Pflanzen-Physiologie,' Eng. Trans, by Marshall
 Ward,   p. 846.
    t  Op. Ht., p. 344.
    X  Gris, " Recherches onatomiques et physiologiques sur la Germination."       '
                                                                                     Ann.
 des Sci. Nat.,' Ser. 5, Sot., vol. 2, 1864, p. 100.
       " Sur la digestion d'Albumen."       '
    §                                         Comptes Eendus,' vol. 84, p. 578.

             Germination of  the Seed    of the Castor-oil Plant.       389
noted, too, that, though starch did not normally appear in the germi
nating endosperm, under the condition of non-removal of the pro
ducts of the decompositions, it did appear in the cells in the form of
small grains, though not till after several days. Van Tieghern also
observed that the progress of the decompositions could be arrested,
and the endosperm made to re-assume a quiescent condition, and that
then the aleurone grains again became formed, though in less quan
tity than before.
    To a large extent my observations confirm these of Van Tieghem,
          I
though did not continue the experiment for so long a time. Some
endosperms prepared by removal of the embryo by the knife were
exposed on damp sand to a temperature of 38° C. in an incubator.
Others were placed with them after removal of the plumule and
radicle only, leaving the large cotyledons lying on the endosperms
undisturbed.
    After three days, the former ones contained a little unaltered oil,
a good deal of fatty acid, a trace of crystallisable acid, and a little
sugar.      The latter set were much more swollen than the former,
and contained a larger amount of crystallisable acid ; the other con
stituents being much the same.
    In a further experiment endosperms, prepared similarly, were
attached to the under side of the cork of a small wide-mouthed
bottle containing a little water, and were thus cut off from the access
of free oxygen.     They were then placed in the incubator at 38° C.
The change in bulk of these was very slight during the time
(fourteen days) during which the experiment lasted ; and when
examined their contents were found to be much less affected.           Part
of the oil was transformed, abont one-fifth being replaced by fatty
acid, while no sugar and no acid soluble in water could be extracted
from them.
    I cannot confirm Van Tieghem's observation as to the occurrence of
starch in the cells under these abnormal conditions ; but my experi
ment, made under the same conditions as his, probably was not con
ducted for a period long enough to secure its formation.              Gris*
 states that when    he found    starch  grains  formed  in the  endosperm
cells it was not until their first contents had been completely absorbed.
    Histological investigation of the endosperms, both when germi
nated normally and when the embryo had been removed, indicates
that the changes are not set up by the latter. The decomposition
of the oil does not in either case take place regularly on the side
nearest to the cotyledons, but cells throughout the whole endosperm
are affected simultaneously.
    The same conclusion is pointed to by the experiments already
quoted as to the antecedent condition of the ferment.           The ground
                                * Oris, op. cit.

300                    Prof. J. R. Green.    On the
resting endosperm, when extracted with salt solution or with glyce
rine, yields tip to the solvent something which, though possessing no
ferment power, yet is capable of having this developed in it by
warming with dilute acid. The cotyledons, on the other hand, are
found, even when germination is active, to contain no ferment.
    Yet it seems improbable that the function of the young embryo iu
its relation to the endosperm is one of absorption only. Van
Tieghem found that the young endosperm, apart from the embryo,
increased in bulk with extreme slowness, not doubling its size til 1 a
month had elapsed.      In normal germination this result is attained in
five or six days.    This is not due simply to slowing of the process,
owing    to elaborated  materials not being absorbed.    In some of my
experiments I laid the flat surfaces of the isolated endosperms upon
dialysing paper exposed upon moist sand, so that absorption could
take place, but even then the rate of development was scarcely
accelerated.
    On the other hand, the germination was much more rapid when
a small piece of the cotyledon was left adhering to the endosperms,
though no removal of products could, under the conditions, take
place.    The first set of experiments alluded to (p. 375), when seeds
with all the embryo taken away were germinated side by side with
those that had only lost its axis, shows, too, that the mere presence
of the cotyledons, apart from their absorbing power, had a con
 siderable influence on the progress of the germination.
    It is difficult to suggest an adequate explanation of this action.
As already shown, it is not caused by the formation and subsequent ex
cretion of the glyceride ferment.    Nor does it appear that the embryo
excretes anything that may bring about the later changes which the
ferment does not effect.     An embryo extracted from a germinating
 seed, and washed from adherent matter, was found powerless to
 effect any change in free ricinoleic acid when the two were placed
 together in an incubator.      Nor would a watery extract of several
embryos taken from germinating seeds produce any change in an
emulsion of ricinoleic acid in the direction of forming the crystalline
 dialysable acid found to result from the oxidation of the former.     It
seems    probable that its growth or development acts as a stimulus
 to the protoplasm of the endosperm cells in which it is embedded,
 whereby these are caused to undergo their metabolic changes more
 rapidly than they do in the absence of such stimulus. The processes
 which are most affected seem to be those dependent on a supply of
 free oxygen, and not those of the ferment action, a point which
 supports the idea of the former ones being the expression of the
 vital activity of the protoplasm of the endosperm cells.         Such a
 stimulus is probably of a physiological chai-acter, and is not the mere
 increase of pressure on the endosperm as the embryo grows.

              Germination of the Seed of the  Castor-oil Plant.     391
    The investigation of the three points discussed in the foregoing
portion of this paper has left unsolved another point of considerable
interest, to which my attention was drawn somewhat accidentally.
In examining the action of the glyceride ferment upon different
emulsions, some experiments were carried out with milk, and there
was then found to be present in the germinated seeds not only the
two ferments already described, but a third, which acts like rennet.
A tube containing 5 c.c. of milk and 2 c.c. of a glyceride extract of
germinating endosperms clotted in five minutes when exposed to a
 temperature of 35° C, a control with the extract boiled remaining
unclotted for hours. At the same time a certain amount of acidity
 was developed in the milk by the action of the glyceride ferment, bnt
 the action on the casein was not caused by this. A further experi
 ment was made to establish this conclusion.             Two tubes were
 prepared as before, and their contents coloured with litmus.    As soon
 as clotting had taken place in the one with unboiled extract, dilute
 HC1 was added to the control till it was equally acid with the other,
 but no clotting or precipitation took place. A further similar set of
 tubes was prepared, their contents being made slightly alkaline, and
 on exposure in the incubator the one with unboiled extract clotted,
 while the control did not.
     This ferment, like the other, was by similar experiments shown to
 be present in an antecedent or zymogen condition in the resting
 endosperms, and to be capable of conversion in the same manner.
     This rennet ferment was found to be most easily extracted by
 glycerine.
     The discussion of the meaning of the rennet ferment here, as in so
 many plants, must be deferred, pending the completion of further
  experiments now in progress.
                                 Summary.
     The work detailed above leads to the following conclusions : —
     1. The reserve materials in the endosperm of Bicinus communis
  consist of oil and proteid matters, the latter being a mixture of
  globulin and albumose.
     2. The changes in germination are partly due to ferment action,
  there being three ferments present in the germinating seed, one a
  proteolytic one resembling trypsin ; the second a glyceride one,
  splitting the oil into fatty acid and glycerine; the third a rennet
  ferment.
     3.   At least two of these, and therefore, presumably, all of tbem,
  are   in a zymogen condition in the resting seed, and become active in
  consequence of the metabolic activity stirred up in the cells by the
   conditions leading to germination, especially moisture and warmth.

 392          Messrs. C. A. Ballance and S. G. Shattock
    4. The changes caused by the ferment action are followed by-
 others due to the metabolism of the cells, these being processes of
 weak oxidation.
    5. The embryo exercises some influence on the latter, setting np as
 it develops a stimulus probably of a physiological description.
    6. The result of these various processes is to bring about the
 following decompositions : —
       The proteids are by the ferment converted into peptone, and
         later into asparagin.
       The oil is split by the glyceride ferment into fatty acid and
         glycerine ; the latter gives rise to sugar, and the former to a
         form of vegetable acid, which is soluble in water and in ether,
         is crystalline, and has the power of dialysis.
    7.  The mode of absorption is in all caseR by dialysis.
    8.  The appearance of starch and of oil in the embryo or the
 young plant is due to a secondary formation, and not to a transloca
 tion of either.
 " A Note on an Experimental Investigation into the Patho
       logy of Cancer."       By Charles A. Ballance and Samuel
       G. Shattock.       Communicated by Sir James Paget, Bart„
       F.R.S. Received April 15— Read May 1, 1890.              Revised
       June   10, 1890.
    Our first method of conducting the enquiry was by seeing if any
 special micro-organism could be artificially cultivated from malig
 nant tumours, such as can be done from tubercle, and the pathological
 formations of certain other infective diseases.
    These experiments were made in most instances with carcin-
omata of the breast, and in a manner fully detailed in the ' Pathol.
Soc. Trans.,' vol. 38. We thus experimented with three lipomata,
one myxoma, three sarcomata, and about thirty carcinomata.
    The results yielded by this particular method, and the particular
cultivating media mentioned, may be described in a single word as
negative.
    We have been able to keep portions of many carcinomata sterile
for an indefinite time after various periods of incubation up to
thirty-three days ; and in one case, in which fluid human sernm was
employed, the incubation was continued for 134 days.
    The pieces transferred to solid media     which remain sterile un
dergo    no change    perceptible  to the naked  eye.   We have at the
present    time (February     20th, 1890), amongst  others, a piece of a

       Experimental Investigation into    the Pathology  of Cancer. 393
 carcinoma of the mamma 1 inch in length, which was placed on agar
 immediately after the excision of the tumour on May 12th, 1887. It
 was incubated at 100° F. for some days and has since been kept in a
  warm cupboard.     It does not even now show any naked-eye change
 and looks as though it had just been removed.
    By the same method we showed the absence of micro-organisms in
 healthy living tissues.
    Notwithstanding such negative results, we do not by any means
 think that the evidence from analogy that cancer is probably micro-
 parasitic in origin is hereby overthrown. For of the micro-organisms
already known, some are very selective in regard to artificial culture
 media, others whose existence admits of easy microscopic demonstra
tion have as yet withstood the efforts made to cultivate them without
 the body. Moreover, it may be allowable with respect to the parasite
itself to conjecture that possibly it does not belong to the Proto-
phyta, but to the Protozoa ; in which case the difficulty of artificial
culture would be easily explained ; and the enormous rapidity of cell
growth in cancer might be thought of as being induced by a can
cerous rejuvenescence setting in in consequence of the conjugation
of the " parasite " with the cells of the normal tissues.
   And so the culture medium in the case of cancer, it may be, has
yet to be found.
    Human blood serum apparently offers the most likely chance of
success, and with it we have made some experiments.             We have
obtained human blood serum from fresh placenta by the method of
expression, and have employed it, both liquid and inspissated,        at
blood heat. After some experience we found it best to have the
blood collected in sterile bottles directly from the divided cord whilst
the placenta was as yet unexpelled.           However, no growth has
occurred under sterile conditions either when the serum has been
simply inoculated or when a piece of living cancer has been placed in
or upon it. The tubes were kept in the incubator for some weeks.
The same result has also attended the use as a nutrient soil of fluid
or inspissated human hydrocele fluid ; e.g., a piece of scirrhus was
incubated for eight days on inspissated hydrocele fluid, after which
it was kept at the temperature of an ordinary living-room. It has
remained sterile and without appreciable change to the present date,
twenty months since the experiment was performed.
   Abstract of Three of the Experiments   with Human Placental Serum.
   Experiment 1.    Scirrhus of the Breast. — Pieces of the tumour were
cut with knives which had been wrapped in cotton wool and heated
on a previous day in the " iron box
                                           " for an hour in the hot-air
steriliser at 150° C. The pieces thus cut were put into two tubes of
    vol. xlviii.                                               2 x

  394            Messrs. C. A. Ballance and S. G. Sbattock.
  human      placental blood serum discontinuously sterilised and inspis
 sated.
      The blood collected, as previously stated, was poured into long
  sterilised test-tubes, which wei'ejailowed to stand in cold water and
  plugged with sterilised wool.          The following day the serum was
  drawn off with a pipette and transferred to other sterilised tubes
 plugged with wool.         These were then placed on six successive days
 in a serum steriliser, and some of them afterwards were solidified.
  The blood furnished from a Bingle placenta was not more than suffi
 cient to charge two or three tubes.        Into two tubes, as above stated,
 of solidified serum thus prepared were placed pieces of the above
 tumour.        One of these showed a white coccus growth on the seventh
 day ; the other remained sterile, and was incubated at blood heat for
 three months.         It was then prepared for the microscope.         The
                                            "         "
 microscopic sections show distinct           budding    of both epithelial
 and connective-tissue      cells.
     Experiment     2.   Large Recurrent Carcinoma of Breast.       Woman,
 <et.  30. — Into three tubes of   fluid human placental serum were placed
pieces of the growth about half an inch in longest measurement.
 Into three other tubes of solidified human placental serum were
placed three other pieces of the growth after the fluid (expressed at
the time of solidification) had been poured off.           These last three
tubes were then partly filled with fluid human placental serum, pre
viously warmed, and prepared as described under Experiment 1. All
these tubes were incubated at 100° F. Three weeks later, cover-glass
preparations from the tubes showed in all a variable degree of coccus
growth. The vitality of the organisms was tested by inoculating
tubes of nutrient jelly. In all cases an iridescent growth occurred
which when examined proved to be of coccus form.              We were sur
prised at all the tubes showing a growth, and intend to make some
further observations on the micro-organism.
    Experiment 3. Small Carcinoma of Mamma. — Woman advanced
in age. Into three tubes one of fluid human placental serum and
two of nutrient agar with 6 per cent, glycerine were placed pieces of
the growth.         Incubation at 100° F. On the eighth day one of the
agar      tubes   showed   a " white growth " which was found to bo a
staphylo-coccus.         From each of the other tubes a tube of nutrient
jelly   was    inoculated.   A fortnight afterwards neither of these jelly
tubes showed any growth. On the eighth day the sterile piece of
cancer on agar was transferred to Muller's fluid ; on microscopical
examination it showed typical capitate processes projecting from the
nuclei of many of the epithelial cells, as also free granules in the
alveoli; some also of the connective-tissue cells show typical budding.
These appearances are not visible in sections of a portion of the same
tumour which was hardened in a like manner but not incubated.

       Experimental Investigation into   the Pathology   of Cancer.   395
    The piece of tnmour submerged in fluid human placental serum was
incubated at 100° P. for 134 days.     It is wedge-shaped, about half an
inch in longest measurement, and appears now at the end of 13-A days
quite unchanged ; the serum, moreover, is clear and unaltered.
    Certain appearances presented on microscopic examination by the
portions of the tumours which had remained sterile after various
periods of incubation at 100° P. are recorded and figured in the
'
   Pathol. Soc. Trans.,' vol. 39. These consisted in the extrusion of the
chromatin from the nuclei in the form of bud-like processes which
ultimately appeared to become free of the cells. Similar appearances
were observed in sections of cancerous tumours which had not been
incubated, but we failed to observe them in normal tissues which had
remained sterile on nutrient media, whether incubated at 100° F. or not.
    Transplantation Experiments. — Having carried out a large number
of bacteriological experiments from the point of view of the possible
infectious nature of cancer, it was necessary to proceed with the
inquiry in the direction of inoculation or transplantation experiments
on brutes with living cancerous tissues.       Wild animals are exempt
apparently from the ravages of this disease ; but those domesticated
not rarely fall victims to it.
    Plan of Experiments. — The tumour, immediately after its severance
from the body of the patient, was placed in a small incubator at
 100° F., and conveyed in a cab to the Brown Institution.         There it
was allowed to stand in a large incubator, while the animal in whose
body it was to be grafted was etherised.
    The operation was conducted with strict antiseptic precautions.
 When the peritoneum had been opened, one of us (S.) took the
 tumour from the incubator and with a sterilised knife or scissors cart -
 fully removed all superfluous tissue (e.g., breast tissue and fat). The
 whole tumour was then transferred         to tho abdominal cavity, or
 several portions were cut from it and pushed in different directions
with the finger within the peritoneum.        In some instances a piece
 was fixed by fine catgut iu the centre of a muscle (e.g., the biceps),
 the muscular tissue being brought together with catgut over it, and
 in a third series of experiments portions of tumour with more or less
 of the surrounding tissues were placed in the subcutaneous tissue or
 in the subperitoneal tissue.
    We avoided      the use of tumours that were ulcerated, for we dis
 covered that,    even with very slight surface ulceration, the deeper
 parts of the tumour (even at 1£ or 2 inches distance) gave an
 abundant growth in a gelatine tube. As a rule, the operation wounds
 ran an aseptic course, and the animals were not inconvenienced at all.
 In  a few cases  in which the tumours were discovered afterwards to be
  on the verge of breaking down, septicaemia set in, and the brutes
  were killed with chloroform.
                                                             2 e 2

396              Messrs. C. A. Ballance aiid S. G. Shattock.
    The tumour tissue was transferred to the body of the animal in
from a half to one and a half hour after removal.                 In the interval it
was kept at 100°        F.,  so that its component elements probably main
tained their vitality practically unimpaired.
    In all cases a small piece of the tumour was placed immediately
 after the transplantation in Miiller's fluid, and subsequently prepared
 for microscopical        examination.       In some of the experiments the
 tumour was large enough to allow also of a small piece or pieces being
 incubated on blood serum.             These were afterwards examined with
 high powers of the microscope if they remained sterile.
    The discovery of the nuclear particles to which we have ventured
 to give provisionally the name of cancer sperm or carcinozoa, made us
anxious to " graft
                            " with
                                     pieces of cancer in which this peculiar
 nuclear state had been induced.            This was done without allowing the
selected pieces of cancer to cool below blood heat from the time of
 their removal from the patient to their lodgment in the body of an
animal.
    So far all the experiments have yielded negative results ; but the
life history of cancer is so long, that we think, until the animals have
survived for at least two years subsequent to the transplantation, it
is impossible to know whether they have been infected or not. That
this view is tenable and not improbable, is supported by the instances
of those diseases, such as actino-mycosis, in which there is no sign of
infection at the inoculated spot until very many months have elapsed.
In making this statement, we are cognisant of the experiments in
which carcinoma is said to have been transferred from one animal to
another of the same species ; e.g., Hanau, of Zurich,* transferred
squamous carcinoma from one rat to another, the inoculated animal
dying within three months of the disease.
    All our results up to the present time, with human cancer as far
as infection is concerned, have been negative.                   In those animals
that have died, the lump of tumour, if small, has been nearly or
quite absorbed, or, if large, an ordinary inflammatory capsule has
been found surrounding it, and the tumour tissue itself apparently in
a state similar to that known as anaamic necrosis.
    We preferred the experiments to be of the character of trans
plantations rather than of inoculations.               It appeared that by the
method adopted there could be no doubt that living cancerous cells
in large numbers were grafted into the animal experimented upon.
We have avoided injections into veins, and other doubtful methods,
as likely to lead to erroneous conclusions.
   *  '
        Centralblatt fur Chirurgie,' No. 42. Dr. Hanau, being in London at the end of
March (1890), was kind enough to show us the photographs and microscopical pre
parations from the rat lie had infected, together with sections of the original
tumour.

       Experimental Investigation into    the  Pathology  of  Cancer.   397
   We are much indebted to Mr. Horsley, Professor Superintendent
of the Brown Institution, for his kindness in allowing ns every
facility at the Brown Institution for carrying on our work, and for
his ever ready help in many ways and on many occasions.
Short Abstract of the most important of our Transplantation    Experiments.
    In all the experiments recorded the tumours were removed from
the human subject, except in the case of two of the experiments on
dogs.
   Monkey (1). — Into the abdominal cavity were placed three small
pieces of scirrhous carcinoma of breast that had been previously
incubated for seven days at 37° 0.
   Lived 37 days — death from diarrhoea.
   After death, the shrunken remains          of  the  grafts  were   found
adherent to the peritoneum.
    Monkey (2). — A piece of a scirrhous carcinoma of breast placed in
the abdominal cavity ; another stitched with catgut into the biceps.
    Lived 115 days. Was killed on account of the appearance of a
large, lobulated, pinkish swelling at the site of the abdominal wound.
    After death, this mass was found by microscopic examination to be
a granuloma, in the base of which was a small piece of prolapsed
omentum.
    No trace of tumour grafts within the abdomen or in the biceps.
    Monkey (3). — Transplantation into both biceps muscles and into
muscles of outer part of right thigh.
    Death from septicaemia on the 6th day.
    The tumour was slightly ulcerated.       The gelatine tubes showed a
rapid and abundant growth.
    Monkey (4). — Into the left biceps was stitched a piece of scirrhous
carcinoma of the mamma, and another piece into the right thigh.
Lived 66 days. Wounds not quite healed. No remains of grafts
found. Death from cold.
    Monkey (5). — A piece of scirrhous carcinoma stitched into left
biceps, and a second placed beneath the skin of the back.
    Lived 15 days. Death from cold. Wounds healed.
     Grafts encapsuled by connective-tissue, lemon-yellow in colour.
    Microscopic sections of the tumour in both situations show it to
 be the seat of coagulation     necrosis.     Around the portion in the
 biceps is a zone of granulation tissue, which is invading the substance
of the tumour, the two being intimately mingled at the periphery of
 the latter.   There are no leucocytes or other living cells in the
 central portion of the graft.       Similar appearances obtain in the
 microscopic sections of the piece of tumour embedded in the sub
 cutaneous tissue of the back.

398            Messrs. C. A. Ballance and S. G. Shattock.
   Monkey (6). — Into the left biceps and beneath the skin             of the
right side of the chest were placed pieces of a scirrhns               of the
breast.
   Lived   15 days.    Death from cold.       Superficial suppuration at seat
of wounds.
   Monkey (7). — Into the abdominal cavity was placed a            thick disc
of scirrhus about 1^ inch in diameter.
   Lived   3 days.    Death from intestinal obstruction.
   Post Mortem. — No adhesions.       Tumour unaltered in appearance.
   Monkey (8). — Into the abdominal            cavity was placed a whole
scirrhus of the breast.
   Lived 49 days.        Death from diarrhoea.        W.ound healed.    Graft
was contained    in a  circumscribed   abscess.
    Gat (1). — Into the abdominal cavity was placed an entire scirrhus
of the breast, the fat having been clipped off with scissors ; the
tumour was dipped in carbolic lotion (1 in 100) before insertion.
The operation was done within three-quarters               of an hour after
removal from the patient.
   Wound healed by first intention. Animal died 320 days after the
experiment.      Post mortem. — Adherent to the under surface of the
liver were the remains of the tumour. This was of a pale yellow
colour, and diminished from its original size, very firm in section,
fibrous, and presenting islets of softish yellow semi-fluid substance.
All the other organs were healthy, except the kidneys, which were
granular.
   Babbit (1). — Into the outer muscles of the right thigh was placed
a piece of scirrhus of the breast,     j          j
                                          x | x inch.
   Animal died 541 days later. Post mortem. — In the muscle was
found a sharply-defined        mass, of flattened oval form, 4 mm. in the
shorter diameter ; this consists of a distinct capsule of fibrous tissue,
 enclosing particles of hard earthy substance.              It would appear,
 therefore, that the necrosed piece of tumour had undergone calcifica
tion.    Viscera all healthy ; brain not examined.
    Babbit (2). — Into the outer muscles of the right thigh were placed
two pieces of a scirrhus of the breast.             Lived 6 days. Negative
 result.
    Babbit (3). — Into the outer     side of the right     thigh were placed
two pieces of scirrhus.
    Lived   36  days.   Post mortem. — The two pieces of scirrhus were
lemon-yellow in colour, fairly firm, and in section presented softish
 yellow areas.
   Dog (1). — Into the abdominal cavity was inserted a whole scirrhus
 of the breast, 1| x      J inch.   Superficial part of wound healed by
granulation.
    Animal quite well 700 days after the experiment.           On this day it

        Experimental Investigation into         the  Pathology  of  Cancer.     399
 was killed.      Post mortem.    — No peritoneal adhesions.       No sign of the
graft.     All the viscera healthy.
    Bog (2). — Abdominal section and insertion of a piece of scirrhus
1^ inch in diameter, and ^ inch in thickness.               Nine days later the
animal was killed with chloroform.                 Post mortem. — Circumscribed
abscess around        the shreddy remains       of the graft adherent to liver
and stomach.        No peritonitis.
    Dog (3). — 1st Experiment. — Into the abdominal cavity was placed
a scirrhus of the breast,        If  inch in diameter and discoidal.
    2nd Experiment. — 390 days after the 1st experiment,                  a whole
scirrhus of the breast with some of the surrounding fat was placed
in the subperitoneal tissue.
    3rd Experiment. — 170 days after the 2nd experiment, into the
peritoneal     cavity was placed a slice of a subperitoneal round-celled
chondrifying sarcoma of humerus, 1 x 1| X               J inch in volume.      This
was pushed to the right of the middle line, a similar slice being
pushed to the left.          The slices were cut in the spray, all surfaces
previously exposed being rejected.             One of the slices included the
growing margin          of the    growth.    Is  still alive and well, 650 days
after the 1st experiment.*
    Bog (4). — 1st Experiment. — Beneath the skin of the right aide of
the thorax, by means of a valvular incision, was placed a small
scirrhus of the breast, about as large as a horse bean, most of the
fat having been previously cut away in the spray.               Primary union of
wound.
    2nd    Experiment. — 240 days after 1st experiment,                 into the
abdominal cavity was placed the greater part of a breast with two
scirrhus masses in it. Death six days later from haemorrhage into
the abdominal cavity.             Post mortem. — No trace of the first graft
beneath the skin of the thorax.            No tumours in internal organs.
    Bog (5).   —  1st Experiment.      — Beneath the skin of the back was
placed,    an  hour    after  its  removal   from the patient, a square slice
     inch along its sides) of a spindle-celled             sarcoma taken from
amongst the muscles of the thigh.
    Wound healed by first intention.
    2nd Experiment. — Beneath the skin of the back, 400 days after the
1st experiment, was placed a wedge-shaped piece, about three-
quarters of an inch in depth, of sarcoma, including the periphery.
This was removed from a tumour filling the zygomatic fossa ot
another dog, which was kept under ether while the graft was taken,
the animal being subsequently killed.                Warm salino solution was
 poured over the piece before its insertion beneath the skin. The
    * July  8th. — Animal killed 760 days after 1st experiment.   Po*t mortem. — No
 sign of tbe grafts. Viscera healthy.

  400            Messrs. C. A. Ballance and S.          Gr. Shattock.
  post-mortem    on the dog from which the graft was taken showed no
  growths in any of the internal organs.
      The wound healed by first intention and 50 days later no trace of
  the tnmonr could be felt.       The tumour on microscopical examination
  was seen to be a small round-celled sarcoma containing many giant
  cells and undergoing calcification in places.*
     Dog (6). — 1st Experiment. — Beneath the skin of the side of the che&t
  was placed a piece of scirrhus of the breast 1 inch in diameter and
  ^   inch in thickness.      The tumour was discharged            by suppuration
  and the wound healed.
     2nd Experiment. — 112 days after the 1st experiment,                 an entire
 scirrhus of the breast was placed in the abdominal cavity, the tumour
  being sliced into three pieces, which were forced into different situa
 tions.
     320 days after the 2nd experiment              the animal was in good
  health.    On this day it was killed. Post mortem. — Omentum ad
 herent to linear cicatrix in abdominal wall. No sign of the graft dis
 cernible.     No disease of any of the viscera.
     Dog (7). Into the abominal           cavity was placed a square slice
 ^ inch along its sides, and ^ inch thick, cut from a tumour which
 had been a very short while previously excised from the ischiorectal
 fossa of another dog.          A second piece of the same tumour was
 placed beneath the skin on the right side of the front of the
 thorax.
     Wounds healed by first intention.         Animal in good health 270 days
 afterwards. The tumour on microscopical examination proved to be
 a squamous-celled carcinoma with cysts.f
     Sheep (1). — Beneath the skin of the back under strict anti
 septic precautions was placed a square slice from a subperiosteal
 round-celled sarcoma of the humerus, 2 inches square, and £ inch
 in thickness: this was pushed for some inches into the subcu
 taneous tissue beyond the incision. The piece included at one of
 its borders the growing margin with the healthy tissues imme
 diately connected with it. Three weeks after the operation there
 was a fluctuating swelling at the site of the graft, and six weeks
 after the operation the graft was discharged in the state of necrosis.
 On the 108th day the animal, apparently in good health, was killed.
     Post mortem. — Sheep healthy in every respect.
     Sheep (2). — Beneath the skin of the back was placed a slice
of scirrhus of the breast with a rim of the surrounding fat, the
whole being        If inch in diameter and about ^ inch in thickness.
    * July 8th. — Animal killed 590 days after the 1st experiment.   Post mortem.—
No trace of the grafts. No sign of cancerous infection.
    t July 8th.— Animal killed 400 days after the experiment. Pott mortem.— No
sign of graft. Viscera healthy.

        Experimental Investigation into           the Pathology    of  Cancer.    401
 Death occurred about            36  hours after the experiment           of  ether —
 collapse of the lungs.
    Sheep (3). — Beneath the subcutaneous fat of the back were placed
two grafts of a rapidly growing round-celled sarcoma removed from
the pectoral region for the third time.               The grafts were cut in the
spray and then washed in warm sterile salt solution.                      The larger
 graft was a thick slice about \\ inch in diameter, and the smaller
 was a cubical piece taken from the other half of the tumour.                     The
 wound healed by first intention.              On the 30th day the animal was
quite well, and on palpation no evidence of the grafts could be dis
covered.*
    Besides the above transplantation experiments, we fed two white
rats, male and female, with portions of fourteen fresh scirrhns
tumours of the breast.             In many instances the animals were fed on
two successive days with portions of the same scirrhns tumour.
These feeding experiments have extended over a period of seven
months, and the rats are npw alive and well, 250 days from the date
of the first experiment.            During this time several litters of young
rats have been born.              These feeding experiments we propose to
continue on the same animals.              They were undertaken with the view
of seeing if infection of the stomach or intestine could be induced
in a way similar to that which is set up in some instances by the in
jection of tuberculous material.
    In regard to the literature of the question, Scheuerlen, in the
autumn of 1887, read a paper before the Medical Society of Berlin,
claiming to have discovered a bacillus in cancer by means of arti
ficial cultures.       Francke corroborated this.             But subsequent ob
servers, amongst whom is Baumgarten (' Centralblatt f . Bakteriologie
u. Parasitenkunde,' vol. 3, No. 13), have shown that these observa
tions were fallacious and due to contamination.                   Moreover, Rosen-
bach and Frankel (at Koch's request) kindly wrote and told us that
the swellings induced by Scheuerlen's operations were from their own
observations not cancerous.t
    Many experimenters have recorded observations with respect to
transplantation or grafting of cancer. Here again the results are at
   *  July 8th. — Animal    killed 165 days after the experiment.   Post mortem. — No
aign of local or visceral infection.
   In the same way, between three and four months ago, we transplanted living
portions of scirrhus tumours into three white rats.      At present they show no signs
of infection.   It may be said, then, that at present there is no evidence that human
cancer can be transferred to brutes. — July, 1890.
   t Professor Flaton I. Kubasoff, of Moscow (' Proceedings of the third General
Meeting of Medical Men at St. Petersburg,' 1889, No. 2, p. 41) has asserted that a
bacillus can be cultivated on coagulated blood serum which will produce tumours in
rabbits and cats after inoculation.     It will appear from what is stated in the text
that this requires confirmation.

402    Experimental Investigation into                the     Pathology    of Cancer.
variance.  Senger* and Sennf have never observed tumour formation
to ensue after grafting.     This accords with the results of earlier
observers in this field, Sir William Savory and Sir John Simon.    In
none of these experiments were the animals suffered to live any con
siderable time, and it is in this that they are not satisfactory.    Of
carcinoma it is especially true that it is a disease of advancing years.
  In   experiments made from animal to animal Doutrelepont obtained
only negative results, as also did Senn.
   We have already noticed Hanau's successful inoculations of sqna-
inous-celled carcinoma of a rat into the abdominal cavities of two
other rats ; and it remains to mention the transplantation experi
ments of Dr. Wehr,J who successfully transferred a vaginal carci
noma of a dog into the subcutaneous tissue of the belly of another
female dog. Valvular apertures in the skin were made in four
places and a piece of tumour was pushed into each with antiseptic
precautions.   The experiment was performed in December, 1887.
The nodules increased in size and the animal died in June, 1888,
much emaciated.     At the autopsy the retroperitoneal glands and the
spleen were occupied by secondary growths.
   By injecting cancer juice triturated and mixed with distilled water
into the jugular vein of dogs, certain results have followed in the hands
of Langenbeck, Follin, and Lebert. Nodules have been found in some
of the internal organs, but the results are of no value owing to the
lack of sufficient histological investigation as to their nature. For it
is well-known that inert solid particles if lodging in internal organs
excite a local inflammation and production of fibroid tissue, which
may attain some size ; this is a well-known occurrence in the lung in
masons, for instance.
   Hahn (' Berlin Klin. Woch.,' 1888) has shown that in the human
subject it is possible to transplant a cancerous nodule from one spot
to another in the same person, with the result of the graft increasing
in size and invading the surrounding tissues.
   In the ' Progres Medical,' No. 16 (1889), Darier reports that he
has found coccidia in the epithelium in " Paget's Disease of the
Nipple."    He concludes that not only this disease, but the carcinoma
that often follows     it,
                       are caused by the parasite    and at a meeting of
                                                                   ;
the Pathological Society        (March, 1890), J. Hutchinson, junr.,
showed specimens which he believed were confirmatory of Darier's
observation.  §
 *  " Studien zur                 dcs Carcinoma
                                                  "
                                                           Berlin Klin. Wochenschrift,'
                  Aetiologie                          ('                                  1888).
    "          Relations cf
                                                       "
                                                     Transactions of the American
 t     Surgical                Micro-organisms              ('
Surgical Association,' vol.  6,
                             1888).
  %
   '  Transactions of the eighteenth Congress of German Surgeons,' Berlin, 1889,
" Weitere Mittheilungen uber die positiven Ergebnisse der Carcinomuberimpfungen
von Hund auf Hund."
     Neisser, in the Viertclj.   Derm. u. Syphilis,' 1888, expresses his belief that
                   '
 §                                f.

         Position    of   Vocal Cords   in Quiet Respiration in Man,          fyc.     403
   Whether the carcinoma which follows in certain cases of Paget's
disease is caused by these organisms, which presumably produce the
cutaneous lesion, remains open for future investigation, as does also
the question whether thero are in cancerous tumours generally para
sites of the same, or of an allied, nature, but which from their simi
larity to the cells of the infected tissues have hitherto escaped notice.
"Ou           Position of the Vocal Cords in Quiet Respiration
             the
       in Man and on the Reflex-Tonus of their Abductor Muscles."
       By Felix Semox, M.D., F.R.C.P., Assistant Physician in
       charge of the Throat Department of St. Thomas's Hospital,
       and Laryngologist to the National Hospital for Epilepsy and
       Paralysis, Queen Square. Communicated by Prof. Victor
       HORSLEY, F.R.S. Received May 25 —Read June 12, 1890.
   Although the laryngeal phenomena attending the act of respiration
in man have not escaped the attention of physiologists and laryngo-
logists, yet investigation on this point has been comparatively
limited and nothing like unanimity of views has been obtained.      Ou
the contrary, a perusal of the chapters devoted to the description of
the mechanism of respiration in the admittedly best and most recent
physiological text-books shows that there exists a very, remarkable
diversity of opinions, not merely on details or on points of secondary
importance, but on the very question, whether the larynx plays an
active rule during quiet respiration in mau or not.
   Thus Hermann,* Dalton,f Landois, and Stirling! describe the
glottis in man during quiet respiration as in a condition of rhythmical
widening and narrowing ; Griitzner§ as forming a small triangle not
differing considerably from that seen after death, the laryngeal
muscles being in a state of inaction; Rosenthal|| as being pretty
widely open, this being due to some muscular action, not precisely
described ; Michael Foster^" as sometimes in a state of rhythmical
widening and narrowing and sometimes in the same state as seen
after death, this being due to an equilibrium between the dilating
mollusoum contagiosum is a disease due to the presence of Psorozoa ; and both
Darier and White, of Boston, have described similar Protozoa as being the essential
cause of a rare form of skin disease, which has been named " keratosis follicularis
                                                                                    "
or "     psorospermosis   folliculaire vegetante."
  *      '
           Physiologic,' 1870, p. 156.
  +
         '
           A Treatise on Human Physiology,' 1867, p. 223.
  %      Hermann's ' Handbuch der Physiologic,' voL 1, Part       p. 57, el teq.
                                                                ii,
             Text-book of Human Physiology,' 2nd edit., vol.
             A                                                   p. 252.
       '
  §                                                             1,
         Hermann's      Handbuch der Physiologie, vol.  4, Part   pp. 231, 232.
                                                                ii,
                     '
  % ||   '
            A Text -book of Physiology,' 1889, p. 548, and 1879 (3rd edit.), p. 604.

404                Dr. F. Semon.         On the Position    of  the
and      constricting mnscles ; Vierordt* and MacKendrickf as being
widely open ; and BriickeJ as being kept open during inspiration.
    Three widely different conditions therefore are described as repre
senting the actual laryngeal phenomena observed during quiet,
respiration in man, viz. : —
    (a.) Rhythmical opening and narrowing of the glottis.
    (b.) A condition of rest, the glottis being widely open.
    (r.) A condition of rest, more or less corresponding to that seen
after death.
    The first of these descriptions, which dates back to prelaryngoscopic
times, is probably the most universally accepted one. It is generally
believed that even during quiet respiration, with each inspiration a
very perceptible widening, with each expiration a correspondingly
perceptible narrowing, of the glottis takes place.
    The actual facts, however, little agree with this opinion. From
the metric measurements of the glottis, to be described in full further
on in this paper, it will be seen that only in a small percentage of
cases (less than 20 per cent.) the vocal cords of healthy, quietly
breathing adults make rhythmical excursions extending over 4 mm.
or more, and that in over 80 per cent, the glottis either remains
almost immovably open during both inspiration and expiration, or
that the excursions of the vocal cords are hardly appreciable.
    The truth of this statement can so easily be verified by laryngo
scopy examination that it is not easy to understand how a different-
belief could so long have held its ground, though a good many ex
planations of this paradox may be advanced.                Thns it may be that
some physiologists have simply transferred observations                    made on
animals (in which the rhythmic movements of the                   cords,  as a rule,
are much more energetic than in man) to human beings, or that they
 have drawn their conclusions from an insufficient number of observa
 tions on man, or that nervous persona, unaccustomed to laryngoscopic
 examination, were experimented upon, or that, by the application of
 the laryngoscope, reflex movements were produced, or finally, that
 the serious mistake was committed of ordering the persons upon
 whom the observations were made to " breathe quietly."                  Under any
 of the last-named conditions, but especially under the last one, the
 general type of respiration, in accordance with universally admitted
 experiences, is apt to change at once in the direction of either
 deepening or acceleration, and it is under these circumstances that
 appreciable rhythmic excursions of the vocal cords are seen.
     But if a number of healthy, not nervous, adults, accustomed to the
 application of the laryngoscope, are examined by a skilful observer
    *  '
         GrundrisB der Physiologic dcs Menschen,' 1877, p. 528.   See atao p. 224.
    t  '
         Text-book of Physiology,' 1889, vol. 2, p. 811.
       '
    %    Yorlesungen iiber Physiologic,' 1881, p. 450.

                       Vocal Cords in Quiet Respiration in Man,               <§-c.         405
¦without their attention being in the least drawn to their mode of
respiration, it -will be seen, as above stated, that only in a small
fraction appreciable widening' and narrowing of the glottis occurs,
and that, in the overwhelming majority of cases, the latter, during
both phases of respiration, forms an almost stationary isosceles tri
angle, such as described by Rosenthal. To obtain this result, however,
all the conditions just mentioned must be rigidly adhered to.
    Corroborative evidence concerning the almost quiescent state of the
glottis in man during quiet respiration will be found in the text-books
and writings                   of Czermak,* Luschka,t            RiegelJ Schech,§ Von
Bruns,||              Merkel.f        Mandl,**      Tobold,tt       Stoerk,+J       Bresgen,§§
Gott8tein,|||| Rosenbacb,T^[ Krause.***
    Seineledei\ftt Burow,JJJ Prosser James, §§§ and Bosworth||||||
merely mention the rhythmic excursions, andB. Frankel,^fTH though
he does not directly speak of a state of quiescence, expressly states
that even during expiration the glottis is wider open than when seen
after death. The utterances of Sir Duncan Gibb,**** Turck,fttt
Fauveltt+J T. Solis Cohen,§§§§ and Sir Morell Mackenzie||||||||
allow of no definite conclusions as to these authors' views on the point
at issue.
   • '     Der Kehlkopfspiegcl,' 1860, p. 86.
   t     '
           Der Kehlkopf des Menschon,' 1871,         p. 49.
                            '
   X    Volkmann's            Sammlung klinischer Vortrage,' No. 95.
         '
   §       Experimentelle         TIntersuchungen iiber die Functioncn       der Nerven und
Muskeln des Kehlkopfs,' 1873, p. 40.
         '
   ||       Laryngoscopie und laryngoscopische Chirurgie,' 1873, p. 101.
   V 1 Anatomic und Pbysiologie des Stimm- und Sprachorgans,' 1863, p. 120.
   •* ' Traite pratique des Maladies du Larynx,' 1872, p. 245.
   ft       '
               Laryngoscopie und Kehlkopfkrankheiten,'        1874, p. 126.
   tl       '
              Klinik der Krankheiten des Kehlkopfs,' 1860, p. 68.
            '
   §§         Pathologic und Therapie der Nasen- Mundrachen- und Kehlkopfkrankheiten,'
1884, p. 34.
            '
   || ||       Die Krankheiten      des Kehlkopfs,' 1890, pp. 11, 12.
              " Zur Lehre von der doppelseitigen totalen Lahmung des Nervus
                                                                                       laryngeus
inferior (recurrens) " (' Breslauer aerztlichc Zeitschrift,' Januar 24, 1890. — Reprint,
p. 10).
   «•* " Experimentelle Untersuchungen und Studien iiber Contraeturen der Stimm-
                        " Virchow's Archiv,' vol.
 bandmuskeln             ('                         98, 1884. — Reprint, p. 87).
   ttt Die Laryngoscopie,' 1863, p. 6.
               '
               '
   ttX           Laryngoskopischer Atlas,' 1877, p. 25.
               '
   §§§           Sore  Throat," 1878, p. 60.
               '
   IHIH          A Manual of Diseases of the Throat and Nose,' 1881, p. 16.
   IfflT In v. Ziemssen's ' Handbuch der spec. Pathol, u. Therap.' 2nd edit., vol. 4.
— Reprint,           p. 54.
   «••• ' Diseases of the Throat and Windpipe,' 1864, p. 453.
   tttt          '
                   Klinik der Krankheiten des Kehlkopfs,' 1866, p. 80.
                 '
   Xltl Traite pratique des Maladies du Larynx,' 1876, p. 79.
                 '
   §§§§ Diseases of the Throat and Nasal Passages,' 1879, pp. 60 and 61.
    || || || ||
                 '
                   A Manual of Diseases of the Throat and Nose,' vol. 1, 1880, p. 242.

406             Dr.  F. Semon.      On the Position    of the
   The nature of the question evidently renders it impossible to give
absolute proof of the quiescence of the glottis in quiet respiration in
man, but there cannot be the slightest doubt that repetition (under
the necessary precautions) of the observations to be detailed hereafter
will fnlly corroborate th.e statements concerning this point so far
made, and for the purposes of the present investigation they may
fairly be taken as proven.
   If this then be granted, the question arises whether the quiescent
state of the glottis as seen during tranquil respiration is identical
with the condition seen after death (the cadaveric position) or
whether during both phases of respiration the glottis during life is
wider than it is in the dead body. This question is one of funda
mental importance for the present investigation.         If it were true, as
assumed for instance by Griitzner and Michael Foster, that the width
of the glottis during tranquil breathing is identical with the cadaveric
position, the larynx would be reduced, so far as its participation in
noimal respiration is concerned, to the passive role of an air-conduct
ing tube, and would thus be put on a par with the trachea and the
bronchi. This position of the vocal cords could be expressive of one
of two conditions only, namely, either of a state of complete inaction
of the vocal cords (Griitzner), or what practically amounts to the
same, of a state of complete equilibrium between the abducting and
adducting forces (Foster). In either case there would be no active
participation of the larynx in the function of respiration.
   If, on the other hand, Rosenthal's, Vierordt's, and MacKendrick's
contention were true, that the glottis is widely open during both phases
of quiet respiration, or at any rate wider than after death, it would
follow with logical necessity that the state of things seen during life
represents neither an equilibrium between the antagonistic adducting
and abducting forces, nor a state of inaction of both of them,
but that it must necessarily be due to some actual muscular force
which would be at work constantly during life. The result of the
action of this force being that the glottis is more dilated even during
quiet respiration than it is after death, this would obviously seem to
signify that its function is to facilitate the act of respiration by allow
ing a freer ingress and egress of air to and from the lungs than would
be possible if the vocal cords were either in a state of inaction or of
balance of the antagonistic motor forces.      The larynx then would not
play a mere   subordinate  part in respiration as commonly supposed and
come into action only as an accessory or associate in case of need, that
is, during forcible respiration, but would be in a state of permanent
activity during life, and those of its muscles which keep the glottis
wider open during ordinary respiration than it is after death would, of
necessity, belong' to the class of regular respiratory muscles and would
deserve a more prominent position than has been hitlierto accorded to them.

                 Vocal Cords in Quiet Respiration in Man,              fyc.        407
     An attempt will be made in this paper to show that the actual con
 ditions correspond to the second of these two alternatives.                       The
 question has occupied my attention for a very considerable length of
 time, and as far back as 1884 I submitted the considerations of which
 this paper is an outcome to the opinion of the Laryngological Section
 of the International Medical Congress, at Copenhagen, in the discus
 sion on " An etiological classification of the motor impairments of
 the larynx."*
    On the same occasion Professor Krause, of Berlin, communicated
 his ideas on the reflex-tonns of the abductors of the vocal cords, ideas
 which fully harmonise with my own, and which shortly after
 wards found full expression in his paper in Virchow's 'Archiv,'
 above referred to. They are exclusively based upon theoretical con
 siderations.
    In order to show that the glottis is wider open during quiet
 respiration (both inspiration and expiration) than after death, or
 after division of the vagi or recurrent laryngeal nerves, proofs of a
 threefold nature may be adduced, namely : —
    First.    Corroborating evidence from trustworthy observers.
    Second.      Direct comparative measurements of the width of the
          glottis during quiet respiration and after death.
    Third. Results of experiments on animals.
                        a. Corroborating Literary Evidence.
    In  a previons paragraph, the names of those observers have been
given who maintain that the glottis during quiet respiration is in a
quiescent state.        Of these observers, Rosenthal, Vierordt, Czermak,
Luschka, Von Brnns, Schech, Riegel, Frankel, Rosenbach, Krause,
Gottstein expressly state that the glottis during both phases of quiet
respiration is wider open than after death, whilst the opinion of
almost all the other authorities named appears to go to the same
effect, but is not so distinctly stated that they could be quoted as
partisans of this view.          On the other hand, one laryngologist only,
namely, Mr. Lennox Browne,t expresses decided views as to the identity
of the state of the glottis as seen during quiet respiration and after
death.
    He figures (Plate 10, fig. 92) the appearance of the normal larynx
after death, showing the cadaveric position of the vocal cords, and
adds (p. 334), " This is also their position during quiet respiration."
   * A short reference to   these observations will be found in the Transactions of the
Congress (' Compte-rendu       des  travaux de  la Section de Laryngologie,' Copen
hagen, 1886.  —  Keprint, p. 48),  but the work  upon which they were based is now
for the first time published.
   t ' The Throat and its Diseases,' 1st edit., 1887.

  408                    Dr. F. Semon.            On    the  Position    of the
      The weight of evidence, therefore, is entirely on the side of the
  glottis being wider open during quiet respiration in life than after
  death.
        b.   Direct Measurements of the Width of the Glottis during Quiet
                                         Respiration in Man.
      Surprisingly few direct measurements of the width of the glottis
 during quiet respiration have apparently been made.
      In the childhood of laryngoscopy, graduated mirrors were recom
  mended for making accurate observations concerning this and other
 points of physiological interest, and some short notice on such mirrors
 will be found in almost every text-book of laryngology.* On the
  whole, however, it appears that very little practical use has been
 made of these mirrors.                  Altogether,    I find only the following metric+
 statements on the width of the glottis as seen during life and after
 death     : —
                                               During Life.                     After Death.
                                  Position of     Margins of
         Authors.                                 respiratory      Width       Width of the
                                  rest during
                                                   excursions     on deep         glott is in
                                quiet respira
                                                  during ordi     inspira
                                tion. Width
                                                 nary respira       tion.
                                   of glottis.
                                                      tion.                   Men.       Women.
                                    8—10                                      6—6          3—4
                                    8—10
   B. Frankeiy                                                                5^-6         3—1
   Merkelf                                                                    ca. 6        ca. 4
   Huschke**                                                                  ca. 4
   I. Solis Cohentr       . .                        6—12          12—20
   Morcll Mackenzie                                  6—12
     The numbers given in this table, however, for the following
 reasons, can only be used with great discretion.                            To begin with,
 Solis Cohen's and Mackenzie's statements have been added for the
    * See, for instance, Merkel, loc. ext., p. 5 ; Mandl, loc. ext., p. 116 ; Semeledcr,
Joe. cit., p. 21    ; Tiirck, loc. cit., p. 142 ; Mackenzie, loc. cit., p. 224, &c.
    t For    convenience,     I  have reduced all of them to millimetres.
    J  Loc.   cit.
    §  Loc.   cit., and, p. 87, ibid.
    || Loc.   cit.
   t   Loc.   cit., p. 172 and 173.
  ** See Merkel, he. cit., p. 172.
  ft Loc. cit.
  XX Loc. cit.

                Vocal Cords in Quiet Respiration in Man,              fyc.          409
  sake of completeness only, as it will be seen from the table that they
  give no direct measurements for quiet respiration, which in the
  present investigation alone is of importance.              Moreover, the passages
  in their works in which the statements in question occur may                        be
  differently interpreted.*         Secondly, only Lnschka and Von Bruns
 give numbers comparing the different positions as seen daring life
 and after death. Thirdly, it does not appear, from the statements of
 any of the authors quoted, whether their numbers are outcomes of
 direct measurements or of mere estimates, and even if the former, upon
 how many measurements their statements are based. Finally, and
 this is no donbtthe most important objection against drawing definite
 conclusions from the above table, it is not stated in the writings of
 any of the authors quoted whether the numbers given by them,
 be they the outcomes of direct measurements or not, refer to the
 actual width of the glottis or to the apparent one, as seen in the
 graduated mirror.
     I will, therefore, draw no inferences whatsoever from this table,
 and only direct attention to the facts that, with all these shortcomings,
  (1) the minimum of the numbers given for the position of rest by
 Luschka and Von Bruns is larger than the maximum of the width
 after death, as given by all the observers who have expressed this in
 numbers (Luschka, Von Bruns, Frankel, Merkel, and Huschke) ; and
 that (2), even if we were to take into consideration the rhythmical
 excursions as given by Solis Cohen and Mackenzie, their minima
 would just correspond to the stated maxima of the width of the
 glottis in the dead body.
         I
     As felt, however, that the evidence on this point, for the reasons
 above given, was by no means conclusive, I began this investigation
 by making a large number of direct measurements of the width of
 the glottis in adults during quiet respiration and after death.                    The
 number of my observations on living persons amounts to fifty, that
 on dead bodies to twenty-fivcf           I need not say that in every instance
 the measurements were made with great care, strictly in accordance
 with the rules enumerated in a foregoing paragraph, and that in
 every case of observation of the living subject the graduated mirror
 was repeatedly introduced, and the average taken from the numbers
gained.      It may, however, here be stated that in one and the same
person,     unless  his attention be called to his mode of breathing or
    * Solis Cohen says, " The space across will vary ordinarily from three to six lines,
but when widely dilated by a deep inspiration it may be from six to ten lines,
leaving a space large enough often to admit a good sized finger."      Mackenzie says,
" On inspiration they        vocal        appear   almost to touch each  other at their
                        (the       cords)
anterior insertion, but to be separated from  i      i
                                                 to an inch posteriorly."
                      I
    t For some time examined the larynges of all adults of whom a pott-mortem
examination was made in St. Thomas's Hospital.
    VOL. XJLVIII.                                                          2 P

410                Dr. F. Semon.          On the Position of (lie
extraneous      causes influence his respiration, the state of the glottis
during tranquil breathing remains pretty constant, as                I  have ascer
tained by measuring several persons on different days, and by com
paring the results thus obtained.
    As to the method, I availed myself of a mirror on which a millimetre
scale is engraved in such a direction that when the mirror is held in
the correct position the scale stands parallel with the plane to be
examined, that is to say, the distance between the inner borders of
the arytenoid cartilages.        The source of confusion which this arrange
ment undoubtedly entails, viz., that the marks of division of the scale
are themselves reflected in the mirror if the latter be held in the
correct position, that is to say, at an angle of 45° towards the horizon,
is easily eliminated by a little practice.
    There is. however, another point of the greatest importance with
regard to the exactitude of the measurements, and one which, with
the exception of a passing remark of Mandl's (loc. cit., p. 116),              I find
to my surprise is not mentioned by any previous observers who speak
about the use of these graduated mirrors ;           I  refer to the considerable
difference of the actual        from    the apparent length of the distance
measured.       The distance between the inner surfaces of the arytenoid
cartilages,   as  apparent on the scale engraved on the laryngeal mirror,
is not equal to the real distance, but considerably smaller than this,
and the proportion between the real and the apparent lengths is,
according to the principles of physiological optics, the same as the
proportion between the real distance of the object, on the one hand,
and the distance of the mirror, on the other, from the observer's eye
respectively.
    The real distance of tho object (i.e., the level of the glottis) from
the observer's eye is of course equal to the distance of the observer's
eye to the centre of the mirror plus the distance of the centre of the
mirror to the object.
     If we therefore assume, with B. Friinkel (loc. cit., p. 16), that the
average distance of the observer's eye from the centre of the mirror is
22 cm. (of which 14 cm. go to the distance to the mouth of the person
 examined, and 8 cm. to the distance from the mouth to the mirror), and
that in an adult man of middle size the average distance from the
centre of the mirror to the glottis is 8 cm. (in an adult woman 6 cm.)
 we obtain, if we call the apparent lengths of the base of the glottic
 triangle as seen during quiet respiration in the mirror o, and the real
length which is wanted x, the following proportions*: —
    • The same result is obtained if the ratio of the size of the scale on the mirror
to the real size of the object be enquired into. If tho distance from the eye to the
mirror = A, and the distance       from the mirror to the object = B, the whole
distance  from eye to object = A + B ; the apparent size of the object will
                                             A
be to that of the scale on the  mirror as      —.

                  Vocal Cords in Quiet Respiration in Man,                     Sfc.            411
                               In  man   :  22     :  30   = a : x.
                               In  woman      :  22    :  28 = o : x.
    Whence        it follows that in men         :   x is equal to         or = a 1'36.          In
 women: x       = gfT — a 1'27.
    It  is obvious that in spite of all these precautions no absolutely
 correct numbers can be obtained, because, on the one hand, the dis
 tance of the observer's eye, even if he be emmetropic, is not always
 exactly equal to 22 cm. from the centre of the mirror, and, on the
other, the distances of the level of the glottis from the centre of the
mirror as given above for men and women are only average figures,
from which the exact figures in individual cases might not incon
siderably differ.          Still I have found by measuring in a double manner
a large number of dead larynges in order to control my laryngoscopic
 measurements (viz., by first examining them with the graduated
 mirror, whilst the conditions of life were as carefully as possible
 imitated so far as position, distances, Ac, are concerned, and by
afterwards introducing a fine compass into the larynx, and measuring
 directly the distances between the inner surfaces of the arytenoid
cartilages), that with sufficient practice nearly accurate results are
obtained by direct measurements.                         The maximum error committed
in measuring laryngoscopically was 1 mm., the average                                     \  mm.,
while in a large number of cases the laryngoscopic and direct
 measurements completely corresponded with one another.
    Of the measurements of dead larynges, it has already been stated
   Thus if A =
                 -
                     22
        and B         8
       A   +  B = 30 = the distance (if the person examined be an adult man).
                                                                    22
   The ratio of size of scale to the object will then be = — = Cr733            ; i.e., 0'733 mm.
on the mirror scale correspond to 1 mm. real size.
   If the eye be removed to a small extent further from tho mirror, say to 24 cm.
instead of 22 cm., the result will not be very different, as both the numerator and
denominator will be increased.         In the first case, as before stated,
                                          g-         0-738.
   In  the latter
                                         ^      = 0-75.
                                           32
                                                                                          is
   The real    size (x)  will then be to the apparent (o) = 1 : 0"733, or         x =
                                                                                        0^733'
   This   gives the real width of the glottis in adult men.
   In  women x =       — —.
                        075
   I am much obliged to Mr. Stevenson            for having given     me this formula.
                                                                                  2   f  2

 412                Dr.  F. Semon.       Chi the   Position of  the
 that    a large  number of them were examined by both laryngoscopic
 and direct methods ; the remainder were measured directly.                 It need
 hardly be added that all undue traction, pressure, or, in short, any
 thing that could possibly tend to disturb the naturaljcondition of the
 parts was carefully avoided.            To obviate the objection that the
 natural condition might have been disturbed by the mere removal of
the larynx from the body, prior to the distance in question having
been ascertained, I have made some laryngoscopic measurements on
dead bodies before the post-mortem was commenced,* and have com
pared the results thus obtained with the laryngoscopic and direct
measurements taken afterwards when the larynx had been removed
from the body. It was found that the width of the glottis had not
been altered by the removal of the larynx.
    I   now proceed to quote the results       I obtained.
    In a total number of 50 persons whom                   I  have methodically
examined with the graduated mirror during quiet respiration,                  I have
only found regular and considerable rhythmical movements eight
times.       Considerable   movements     I call all such, in which the excur
sions of the cords influence the width of the glottis during the two
phases of respiration to an extent of more than 4 mm.                   Of the re
maining 42 persons examined, 23 were men, 19 women. In all these
cases    during quiet respiration the glottis remained either immovably
open, or the excursions of the cords were so slight as to easily allow
of estimating the average width of the glottis. Subjoined are the
i-esults of my experiments, expressed in millimetres, both the apparent
and the real size being given in round numbers.
  *   I  may state here, that, according to repeated examinations of my own, rigor
mortis in man exercises no influence upon the width of the cadaveric glottis.

               Vocal Cords     in Quiet Respiration in Man,          8fc.        -413
                    Males.                                   Females.
               Average size of the glottis.              Average size of the glottis.
     Age.                                     Age.
                Apparent.        Keal.                     Apparent.       Real.
      32            8            11            19             8            10
      36            9            12            26             8            10
       28           9            12            34            10            12 -5
      22           10            13 5          33             8            10
      34            9            12            28             9            11 -5
      66            7              95          60             7             9
      46            9            12            43             8            10
       63          10            13 5          26            10            12-5
      48           10            13 5          44             9            11-5
      26           12            16            63             8            10
      27           10            13-6          19             8            10
      30            9            12            22             7             9
      44            8            11            22            10            125
      28           10            13   5        34            11            14
      20            7              9  5        21            10            12  5
      63           11            16            45             9            11  5
      69           10            13  '6        37            12            15
      46            9            12            26            10            12  5
      19           10            13   5        21             9            11 '5
      23           14            19
      68            9            12
      22            8            11
      60           11            16
   From these tables it will appear that my own measurements on the
whole agree, so far as the apparent distance is concerned, with those
of Luschka and Von Bruns, who alone have expressed these con
ditions in numbers.          I can only assume that both these authors
                                                                 '
speak of the apparent, not of the real, size when stating that the
average width of the glottis in both cases varies from 8 to 10 mm. ;
this, it is Been, is also the average of the apparent size in my own
measurements, the maximum being in men 14,* in women 12 mm.,
and the minimum in both cases being 7 mm. The exact average as
resulting from my observations would be in men an apparent width
of nearly 10 mm., corresponding to an actual width of 13"5 mm., and
in women an apparent width of exactly 9 mm., corresponding to an
actual width of 1T5 mm.          I  cannot say that I have been able to make
out any   'distinct   relationship    between the widths of the glottis and
the ages or statures of the persons examined.
   * This figure, corresponding to 19 mm. real size, entirely confirms the apparently
somewhat exaggerated descriptions given by Czermak and Solis Cohen, who state
that the glottis in some coses, even during quiet respiration, would admit a good
sized finger.

414              Dr. F. Semon.          On  the Position of    the
    The following    are my results as to the width of the cadaveric
glottis : —
                    Men.                                  Women.
                 Real size of cadaveric       a_        Real size of cadaveric
        Age.                                  Age.
                          glottis.                              glottis.
         35                 5-5                21                  6
         17                 4                  40                  2
         24                 5                  27                  4
         23                 5                  56                  2-5
         43                 4-5                54                  4-5
         50                 5 •                58                  36
         54                 6                  33                  4
         63                 4                  23                  4-5
         53                 35                 60                  5
         26                 4
         45                 5
         27                 3 5
         60                 5-6
         77                 4-5
         35                 5
         48                 5
    Here again on the whole, my results agree with those found by
previous     observers (Luschka, Von Brans, B. Frankel, Merkel,
Huschke). In 16 larynges of adult males I found a maximum width
 of 6, a minimum of 3'5 mm., whilst the average was very nearly 5 mm. ;
 in 9 larynges of adult females the maximum width was 6, the mini
 mum 2 mm., the average exactly 4 mm.
    It can be positively stated that no relationship exists between the
 cadaveric widths of the glottis and the ages or statures of the bodies,
 since the maximum width seen in the female (6 mm.) was observed
 in a small woman, who had suffered from tuberculosis of the lungs ;
 the minimum width seen in a man (3'5 mm.) was observed in a tall
 lad of 19 who died from renal disease.
                         I
    At the same time must not omit to observe that the remarkable
 differences in the width of the cadaveric glottis as shown by the last
 table, especially in females- (from 2 to 6 mm.) make it to my mind
rather doubtful whether the expression " cadaveric position of the
              " is a
vocal cords          very significant and useful one.
    In an isosceles triangle of 20 mm. length, this being the average
length of the glottis in females, it makes a very considerable differ
ence in the position of the sides whether the glottis be 2 mm. or
6 mm. in length.*
   * The last-named fact   appears to be of considerable importance, with regard to

               Vocal Cords        in Quiet Respiration in Man,                     fyc.           415
  If we now compare the summary of the two last tables showing the
width of the glottis daring quiet respiration and after death respec
tively, the results will be found to be rather surprising.
   The width of the glottis in adults expressed in millimetres is : —
                    In   men.                           Average.        Maximum.          Minimum.
                                                            10                14            7
  During quiet respiration                                  13-5              10            9-5
                                  {
                                                             5                 G            3-6
                    In   women.                         Average.        \To.xinium.       Minimum.
                                                             9                12             7
  During quiet respiration                       .T*
                                  { J^STi^f                 11-5              15             9
                                                             4                 6             2
  In  other words, first, during quiet respiration the width of the glottis
in both sexes is on the average not only fully twice the size or more of
the glottis as seen after death, as would appear from mere laryngo-
scopic estimation, but in reality twice and a half to nearly three times
that size.
   Secondly,    if,    instead        of   the   averages,        the   maxima        and minima
respectively   be     compared,        the   differences      i»    some   instances        are even
larger.
   Thirdly, under all circumstances the minima as observed during life
are greater than the maxima seen after death.
   Thus all metric observations go to prove beyond any doubt that
the glottis during quiet respiration    much wider open than after
                                                       is
death.
                         Thirdly. — Experiments              on    Animals.
   Concerning the last category of proofs, to the effect that the
glottis   wider open during quiet respiration than after death, namely,
          is
experiments on animals,    am able to state that from the first experi
                                 I
menter  — Legallois, down to the present day, all physiologists who
have performed division of either both pneumogastric or both recur
rent nerves on animals, and whose works on the subject have been
the different descriptions by authors, as to what may be called                     paralysis of the
recurrent laryngeal nerve and what abductor paralysis.

416                     Dr. F. Semon.        On  the  Position   of the
accessible to me in the original, namely, Legallois,* Reid,t Longet.J
Traube,§ Rosenthal,|| Dalton,*J Georg Schmidt,** Schech,ft Steiner.J                      J
Vierordt, jun.,§§ unanimously state that after such division the
glottis became narrower than it had been previously ; and this in
fact is a statement which will be found in every text-book of phy
siology.
    This category of proofs, however, obviously again can only be used
with great restrictions for the decision of the point at issue. In the
first place, of the authors just named, only Legallois, Beid, Traube,
 Schmidt, and Schech state distinctly and unmistakably that the
narrowing of the glottis of which they speak as a sequel to the divi
sion of the pneumogastric              and recurrent laryngeal nerves refers to
the difference of the position of the vocal cords thus obtained from
the one previously seen during quiet respiration.                     It can hardly be
donbted that, also, the other authors quoted above think of this dif
ference when they speak of the narrowing resulting from the divi
sion ; but, unfortunately, their statements on this important point
are not so unequivocal as to altogether exclude the objection that they
had intended to contrast the position resulting from the division
of the motor laryngeal nerves with that observed during deep
inspiration.
    Secondly, the conditions of quiet respiration in men and animals,
so far as my own             observations during a long-continued series of ex
periments on the functions of the motor laryngeal nerves and on the
central innervation of the larynx undertaken in conjunction with
Professor Victor Horsley permit me to conclude, are so different
from each other, in that the quiet respiration of animals is much
more usually accompanied by rhythmical excursions of the vocal
cords than in men, that too much stress must not be laid on experi
ments in animals with regard to this point.
    Thirdly, there exist undoubtedly frequent and important anatomical
   •  '                                                                   '
          Experiences ear la principe de la Vie,' 1812, p. 197 ; and CEuvres,' 1830,
vol. 1, pp. 170, et seq. and p. 248.
   t ' Physiol., Anatom. and Pathol. Researches,' 1848, p. 118. His paper on this
subject was published in 1841.
   t ' Gazette Medicale de Paris,' 1841, p. 469, and ' Traits de Physiologie,' vol. 3,
p. 529.
   § 'Beitrage       zur  experimentellen  Pathologie  und Physiologie,'    1846,  fasc. 1,
p. 95, et seq.
      '
   ||     Die Athembewegungen u. ihre Beziehungen zum Nervus Vagus,' 1862, 77.
        '
   T A        Treatise on Human Physiology,' 1867, p. 451.
   ** ' Die Laryngoscopie an Thieren,' 1873, p. 31, et seq.
   tt     '
            Experimented Untersuchungen fiber die Functionen der Ncrven        n. Muskeln
des Kehlkopfs,'       1873, p 31.
          '
   XX       Die Laryngoscopie der Thiere.'   Reprint from * Verhandlungen des Natur.
hist. Med. Vereins zu Heidelberg,' N.S., vol. 11, Heft 4, p. 287.
          '                                             Diss, inaug., 1876, p. 39.
   §§ Beitrage zur experiment. Laryngoscopie.'

             Vocal Cords in Quiet Respiration in Man,    fyc.       417
variations of nerve supply, not only in different kinds of animals, but
even in animals    belonging to the same species ; and again, as will
hereafter be shown, the immediate effects of the division of the
motor nerves of the larynx, as well as its ultimate consequences, are
different according to the age of the animals used for the experi
ments.
   Thus, unless care is taken, all these circumstances combine to
reduce, in this particular question, the value of experiments on
animals for the solution of the corresponding question in men. Still,
even if regard be had to all these circumstances and possible sources
of error, the fact remains that by all observers narrowing of the
glottis in all kinds of animals has been reported after division of the
motor nerves of the larynx, and that by some of these observers the
6tate of things thus resulting is expressly contrasted with the position
as previously present during quiet respiration.
   A general survey of the mass of evidence so far accumulated proves
beyond doubt that the glottis is wider open during quiet respiration
(inspiration and expiration) than it is after death or after division of
the pneumogastric and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The statements of
the most trustworthy and experienced observers on men, the reports
of all physiologists who have investigated this question by experi
ments on animals, and especially the direct comparative measure
ments of the glottides of quiet-breathing healthy adults and of dead
adult bodies — all go to establish one and the same result, and leave, I
think, no doubt as to the actuality of the fact that the glottis in man
during quiet respiration is wider open than after death.
   The immediate outcome of this result     is, as already stated in a
previous paragraph, that the position of the vocal cords during quiet
respiration can neither represent an equilibrium between the anta
gonistic adductor and abductor muscles of the larynx, nor the result
of inaction of both of them. In either of these two hypothetical
conditions the width of the glottis during quiet respiration could not
but be identical with that seen after death.
   As matters actually stand, the state of the glottis during quiet
respiration must necessarily be the result of active muscular contrac
tion, and must represent one of two conditions, viz., either simul
taneous activity of both the adductors and the abductors of the vocal
cords with preponderance of the latter, or, secondly, some degree of
activity on the part of the latter alone — the adductors being not at
all in   astate of functional activity.  An attempt will be made here
after to show that the second of these alternatives in all probability
corresponds with the actual facts.    But before proceeding to a discus
sion of this point, the question which naturally arises from the fact
that the glottis  is wider during quiet respiration than after death
demands a reply What
                  :       is the cause of this difference
                                                        ?

418            Dr. F. Semon.      On the Position   of the
   A reply to this question will be given by a consideration of the
physiological functions of the larynx.
   The larynx serves two functions, which are in a certain sense inti
mately connected with, yet in another sense just as distinctly anta
gonistic to, each other. These are the functions of respiration and
of phonation.    For the purpose of the former — which with regard to
the vital interests of the individual is by far the more important one
of the two — it is indispensable that the lumen of the air tubes should
be wide enough open to admit of the ingress and egress of the
quantity of air necessary for breathing purposes, without at the same
time imposing an additional labour upon the other respiratory
muscles.    Such an additional labour would arise if the portal for the
entry and exit of air were so narrow that the air, instead of quietly
passing, had, by forcible means, to be sucked through it.
   On the other hand, the function of phonation makes it a necessity
that an apparatus should be interpolated within the air tubes which
would admit of complete juxtaposition of the voice-producing organs.
   This interpolation, in all probability, was meant for the purposes of
phonation only, not primarily for respiratory purposes.
  I am perfectly well aware that in a certain sense the interpolation
of the phonatory apparatus, represented by the vocal cords, subserves
also the protection of the lower respiratory passages against the
entry of foreign bodies : but that this interpolation is not indis
pensable is conclusively shown by comparative anatomy. The purpose
of protection  is, indeed, as demonstrated by the latter science, suffi
                             "
ciently provided for by the constrictor vestibuli laryngis" (Luschka)
   "                          "
or thyreo-ary-epiglotticus muscle (Henle), which forms the upper
most stratum of the sphincter muscles of the larynx. In Reptiles        a
sphincter of the simplest form surrounding the vestibule of the
larynx isthe only protective arrangement (Henle, Anatomie,' vol.        2,
                                                    '
p. 249), and even in dumb Mammalia the same simple arrangement
returns.  " In the Cetaceous Mammalia," says Mayo     Outlines of
                                                             ('
Human Physiology,' 1839, p. 380),    " which are dumb, we find a
respiratory larynx alone ;the windpipe terminates in a contractile
circular aperture, and this opens not at the root of the tongue, but is
prolonged as a pipe towards the nostrils completely out of the way
of food."   In man, again,   acontraction of the constrictor vestibuli
of the larynx sufficiently guards the lower air passages against the
entry of foreign bodies, as shown by the numerous cases in which,
though destruction of the phonatory apparatus (vocal cords) had
taken place through disease, yet accidents from food, &c,
                                                            "
                                                              going the
             "
wrong way      occur no more frequently, than in people in whom
these parts are intact.
   Thus comparative anatomy as well as pathological observation on
men combine to show that the interpolation of the vocal cords      isby

                 Vocal Cords in Quiet Respiration in Man, $c.                        41 &
no means an indispensable           adjunct to the purposes of the respiratory
process.*
     On the other hand, in order to impart vibrations to the column of air
contained in the upper respiratory passages for the purpose of pro
ducing sound, nature chose as the most suitable form a reduplication
of folds of mucous membrane within the larynx endowed with
certain special characteristics.
     But this rednplication in turn seriously interferes with the calibre
of the tube ; that is to say, with the respiratory function of the
larynx.
     That this interference      is serious can easily be shown anatomically,
and, though not quite so obviously, with the material at present in our
possession, both physiological and pathological.
                               I
     For the first purpose have made the following measurements! of
dead larynges : —
                                                           Longitudinal   Transverse
                                                            diameter of   diameter of
                    Transverse
                                   Width of      Total         cricoid       cricoid
       Age of      diameter of
                                    glottic   length of       cartilage     cartilage
       subject.    vestibule of
                                     base.      glottis.   immediately   immediately
                      larynx.                                               beneath
                                                              beneath
                                                            vocal cords.  vocal cords.
   (a.) Males
                —
          23             18           5          •25            15            16
          50             16           5           24            16            16
          43             17           4-5         24            16-5          17
          54             17           6           22            18            19
          63             17-5         4           23            18 5          18-5
                —
   (J.) Females
          33             13           4           20            13            13
          23             13           4'6         20            13            14
          60             14           5           21            13 5          14
      From this table it appears that the transverse diameter of the
 vestibule of the larynx, on the one hand, and the longitudinal and
 the transverse diameters of the cricoid cartilage, on the other, are so
 nearly equal to each other, that in both sexes, without committing
     *  At the same time it is perfectly possiblo that in soma species of animals the
 complete closure of the glottis is by far the most important means of protecting the
 lower air passages against the entry of food. With regard to this very complicated
                                                         '
 question, see the excellent prize essay of Otto Frey, Die pathologischen Lungen-
 veranderungen nach Lahmung der Nervi Vagi,' 1877, p. 81.
     t My numbers referring to the total length of the glottis in men differ somewhat
 from those of previous observers in that they arc a little Bmallcr j the accuracy of
 the observations, however, can be vouched for.

420             Dr. F. Semon.       On  the Position of  the
any considerable error, the space above and below the vocal cords and
ventricular bands might be looked upon as a circle. Selecting now
the average radius resulting from the comparison of my measure
ments as the representative of the circle, we find in the five measure
ments of male larynges that its average would be about 8 mm.         The
area, therefore, in adult men of the air-tube above and below the
phonatory apparatus would be about 200 square mm. In women the
average radius would be 6'5 mm. ; the area of the air-tube above and
below the phonatory apparatus would be therefore about 133 mm.
   Now, the average length of the glottic triangle in men after death
is a little more than 23 mm., its base, as shown before, is 5 mm. ; the
area of the space included by the sides of the glottic triangle in men
after death, therefore, is about 57 mm.
   In women, the average length of the glottis would be 20 mm., its
width, as shown before, is 4 mm. ; the area of the glottic space, there
fore, 40 mm. This means, in other words, that in adult individuals of
both sexes the space for the entry of air is reduced by the interpola
tion of the phonatory apparatus when its constituent parts are at
perfect rest to less than one-third of its natural area.
   Anatomically, therefore, there can be no question as to the gravity
of the diminution of the air channel, and the more so because it must
not be forgotten that, even apart from the interpolation of the
phonatory apparatus, the larynx and trachea represent the narrowest
part of the whole air passages, both the uppermost part of the air
passages and the aggregated diameter of the bronchi being consider
ably larger than the calibre of the first-named parts.
   Physiologically, the question immediately arises : Is so considerable
a diminution of the lumen of the air passages as that produced by
the interpolation of the phonatory apparatus when at complete rest
compatible with what we call at present the normal type of quiet
respiration ?
   In this sentence the expression " normal type of quiet respiration "
demands further explanation.       It is by no means the purpose of this
paper to show that, even if the glottis during life was identical with
that seen after death, necessarily that state of laboured respiration
which we call "dyspnoea" would arise. Obviously, if the inter
ference caused by the diminution of the calibre be not excessive, a
condition of things could be imagined in which this diminution was
counterbalanced merely by wbat is called " hyperpnoea," i.e., either
an increased labour of the muscles normally engaged in quiet respira
tion (diaphragm, intercostal muscles, and scaleni), or additional
efforts of the so-called " accessory " muscles of respiration. Under
such circumstances, though one could hardly speak of the presence of
actual dyspnoea, yet, undoubtedly, the state of things thus created
would be different from what is at present the general idea of quiet

               Vocal Cords in Quiet Respiration in Man,              Sfc.        421
respiration in man. It will at once be seen that it is necessary to
define this point very clearly, because, as already mentioned before,
this part of the investigation is beset with very considerable diffi
culties.
    Whilst, up to this point, the main part of our argument has been
based on physiological observations on the human subject, and clinical
facts and experiments on animals were only used as corroborative
evidence, in this part of our enquiry we have to depend exclusively
 upon the two last-named factors, and for various reasons neither of
 them gives us so distinct a reply to the question at issue as would be
desirable.
    First, with regard to experiments on animals.
    It has already been stated in a previous chapter that the conditions
 resulting from section of the laryngeal motor nerves in animals vary
very considerably according to species, age, and individual peculiari
ties of the animals experimented npon, and that, practically, the only
point on which a complete consensus of opinion has been obtained
consists in the fact that narrowing of the glottis has been described
by all observers.      To what degree, however, this narrowing interferes
with the respiratory functions of the animal operated upon is a
question the replies to which vary very considerably.
    The importance of the difference of species and of ages of the
animals experimented upon for tho decision of this point did not
escape the acute observer who first thoroughly studied the influence
of the division of the recurrent laryngeal nerves upon life, viz.,
Legallois. Having observed that in very young dogs the division of
these two nerves led to speedy death by asphyxia, he wished to know
whether the same phenomena were present in other specimens of
animals.      He therefore cut, he tells us,# sometimes the pneumogastric,
sometimes the recurrent laryngeal, nerves in cats, rabbits, and guinea-
                                                                       "
pigs, in the first days of their existence. He found that cats died in
the same manner, and perhaps even more quickly than dogs ; that in
guinea-pigs arid in rabbits, section of the recurrents obstructs the
glottis less completely, the former only die in about an hour's time,
and the rabbits after a half hour."
   Having thus stated the differences in degree depending upon the
species of the animals, Legallois proceeded towards determining the
influence of age upon the phenomena resulting from sudden diminu
tion of the calibre of the glottis. He found that " section of the
recurrent nerves produces a less considerable suffocation in inverse
proportion to the age of the animals ; thns, in dogs and cats about
two to three weeks old, this operation still causes dyspnoea, which,
though less strong than in the first days after birth, yet is strong
enough to cause the death of the animals after a few hours.                   At the
          * '
              Experiences sur le Principe de la Vie,' 1812, pp. 190, et  aeq.

  422               Dr. F. Semon.          On the Position    of the
  age of three months or more, dogs are no longer so inconvenienced as
  to die ; cats are much more so, and as soon as one excites them and
  forces them to walk they fall down as though they were suffocated."
     Similar conditions obtain in rabbits and guinea-pigs.                   " The
 dyspnoea which is caused in their case by division of the recurrent
  nerves is less grave in proportion to their ages, bnt it is always more
  severe in guinea-pigs than in rabbits.            For instance, the latter are
  much less inconvenienced         by it at the age of one month than guinea-
  pigs at  the age   of  five months, which may still perish from it within
 twenty-four hours."
     "The reason of all these differences," continues Legallois, "is
 easily understood.        It consists in the fact that, in proportion to the
 capacity of the larynx, the opening of the glottis in animals of the
  same age is greater in one species than in another, and still greater
 in the adult than at the moment of birth in those of the same species,
 as already stated by M. Richerand in the human species.*                       Or
 assuming that the form of the glottis, on the whole, is similar in
 these diverse animals, inasmuch as the areas of the smaller figures are
 to each other as the squares of the homologous dimensions, it is seen
 that a narrowing of the same kind of the glottic opening must inter
 cept the passage of air in very different degrees."
     And Legalloisf sums up his remarks as follows              :
                                                                  " The diminution
 of the glottic opening varies according to the species, and much
 more even according to the age in certain species. In dogs, and
 especially in cats, it is so considerable that these animals are suffo
 cated as quickly, or nearly so, as if one had ligatured their trachea.
 In proportion to the growing up of these animals the danger becomes
less pressing, and when they have arrived at a certain age they are
 only slightly inconvenienced by it (namely, by the diminution of the
 glottis) ; this, at least, is so in dogs. From this it follows that of all
 the symptoms which are produced by section of the par vagum, the
 gravest ones, those that kill most quickly, are in certain cases those
which depend upon the larynx. On the whole, whenever the diffi
culty of breathing becomes very severe immediately after this opera
tion, it is very likely that its principal cause is in the larynx ; for
instance, the violence with which the dyspnoea declares itself suddenly
in horses, even in adult ones, and the promptitude of their death
show that in these animals the glottis is considerably narrowed. A
large opening made in the trachea furnishes simultaneously both the
remedy for and the etiology of all these cases. The chink of the glottis,
therefore, is never the same in the living subject as is found in the
cadaver, and the arytenoid          cartilages need being       supported by their
          * 'Nouveaux filaments do Physiologie,'   2 edit., vol. 11, p. 436.
          t Ibid., p. 231, et stq.

              Vocal Cords in Quiet Respiration in Man, $-c.                          423
muscles   just as the upper eyelid needs the support of its own." (The
italics are my own.)
    So far Legallois.      I have quoted him at length, first, because the
results of his experiments have, in the main, been corroborated by
practically every observer who has repeated his experiments ; and,
secondly, because it appeared to me most interesting that the same
thesis, the establishment of which is attempted in this paper, should
have been given out with almost prophetic foresight at the beginning
of the century by practically the first worker in this field.
    There is no need to quote at any length the experiences of subse
quent experimenters, as they agree on all the main points with
Legallois' results, and as the whole literature of the subject has been
most carefully quoted and abstracted by Frey in the excellent prize
essay already mentioned.           The general result of all these experi
ments may fairly be thus summarised : — that the effects of the sudden
reduction of the glottis to its cadaveric width vary very considerably,
first, with regard to the species ; secondly, with regard to the age of
the animal experimented upon ; thirdly, though in a less degree, with
regard to individual peculiarities of the animal.                     Whilst certain
species, such as cats and horses, not only in the first days after birth
bnt even when adult, are suffocated by the reduction of the glottis to
the cadaveric size, other species, notably dogs, suffer less and less in
proportion to their ages, so that, whilst they die when operated upon
a few days after birth, dyspnoea only occurs on exertion when they
are operated upon when adult.             Again other species, such as rabbits
and guinea-pigs, are not nearly so much inconvenienced as the species
so far mentioned, even when operated upon at a very early period of
their existence.
    Thus the general effect, in animals, of reduction of the glottis to
the cadaveric size during life is undoubtedly interference                          with
respiration,    bnt the degree          of interference immensely                varies.
Obviously, under these circumstances, it is not permissible to draw
hard and fast conclusions from experiments on animals with regard
to the degree of interference which may be expected under similar
conditions in man, and the only reasonable conclusion which can be
drawn is that in all probability reduction of the human glottis to the
cadaveric position would also lead to some interference with normal
respiration, and more so in the young human subject than in the
adult.
    Even less satisfactory than experiments on animals are pathological
observations on man for the decision of the question whether reduc
tion of the glottis to the cadaveric width interferes with normal
respiration. It is perfectly true that nearly all observers* who have
   • For instance, v. Ziemsaen, ' Handbuch der speciellen Pathologie,' vol.      4, pt. 1,
p. 456 ; Morell Mackenzie, loc, cit., p. 440 ; Gottstein, loc. cit., p. 259, 4c.

424             Dr. F. Semon.       On    the  Position of the
described cases of bilateral paralysis of the recurrent laryngeal
nerves (which are extremely rare) agree that there is no dyspnoea when
the patients are at rest ; but then two circumstances combine to
render the value of this statement rather doubtful for the decision        of
the point here at issue.
   In the first place, it is more than likely that only those coar$er
differences of respiration which are termed " eupncea
                                                           " and "
                                                                   dyspnoea"
respectively have met with attention on the part of clinical observers,
and that, as no actual dyspnoea in the^flinical sense of the term was
met with in such patients when at rest, finer differences in the type
of respiration,  such as intensification or acceleration of respiratory
movements     on very slight exertion, were not particularly studied.
Moreover, some of these observers, as for instance Solis Cohen,*
indeed, speak of " moderate dyspnoea
                                            " on exertion
                                                            occurring some
times under such circumstances.
   Secondly, however, a very important element, not mentioned so
far, here comes into consideration, namely, the wonderful adaptability
of the human organism to very considerable changes in the respi
ratory conditions, provided that these changes are produced slowly. It
is an every-day observation with laryngologists, that an acute stenosis
 of the larynx, such as produced, for instance, by acute oedema, inter
feres, even if by no means very considerably, yet in a much higher
degree, with respiration, and produces much greater snbjective and
objective dyspnoea, than a much higher degree of stenosis due to
chronic affections, such as growths in the larynx, bilateral paralysis
of the glottis openers, cicatrices after ulcerative disease, congenital
membranes expanded between the vocal cords, &c.
   Now in almost all cases in which bilateral paralysis of the recur
rent laryngeal nerves (i.e., the pathological equivalent during life to
the cadaveric position of the glottis after death) is produced, the
coarse of events is a very slow one, and the patients have ample
time to adapt their entire respiratory mechanism to the altered con
ditions of the larynx. Under such circumstances, their whole mode
of respiration is instinctively changed to such a degree, that the
effects of the reduction    of the glottis to the cadaveric size are not
likely to attract prominent attention.
   Yet there can be no doubt in my opinion that in cases of reduction
of the glottis to the cadaveric size, except when the act of respiration
is at its lowest physiological ebb, i.e., during complete rest of the body,
a modification of the mechanism of respiration does occur as soon as
any demand is made upon the respiratory apparatus.
   This opinion is not purely theoretical.
   I have never had the opportunity of observing a case of quite com
plete bilateral paralysis of the recurrent laryngeal nerves, but      I have
                             * Loc. cit., p. 144.

                Vocal Cords in Quiet Respiration in Man,             §-c.           425
been able for a long time to follow a case in -which quite analogous
conditions had been produced by perichondritis of the larynx ending
in anchylosis of the crico-arytenoid articulations, the cords being
fixed in the cadaveric position.               The width of the glottic base,
measured with the graduated mirror, completely corresponded with
about the maximum' of that seen after death in that it was between
5   and 6 mm. (the patient was a woman).                   There were no other
laryngeal lesions interfering with the calibre of that organ, nor any
other affections causing diminution in the calibre of the air passages.
The patient when at complete rest breathed quietly and without any
effort ; the nnmber of her respirations per minute was on the average
20. As soon, however, as she was told to twice pace up and down
the length of the room in which she was examined, and then to sit
down again, the nnmber of her respirations at first very considerably
increased, viz., to 36 or 40, then gradually the frequency diminished,
but the inspirations became much more intense, the contraction of
the scaleni being distinctly visible, and the levatores alee nasi per
ceptibly acting.        It always took some time until the previous quiet
type of respiration was re-established.                The patient complained of
considerable dyspnoea on however slight exertion.
    Thinking that a more positive reply to the question might be
obtained by a 6tudy of the effects in man of sudden diminution of the-
calibre of the glottis to the cadaveric width, such as are unintentionally
 produced sometimes by section of the recurrent laryngeal nerves during
operations for the removal of goitres, I addressed in 1884 a collec
tive question to several colleagues* as to the respiratory phenomena
after sudden bilateral section, of paralysis of the recurrent laryngeal
nerves, and of even unilateral paralysis in children.                       The latter
question      was  inspired by   the  wish   to  learn  whether,  analogous to the
conditions observed in young animals, even a minor degree of diminu
tion in the young human subject might lead to considerable respi
ratory disturbance, a very interesting case reported by Sommerbrodtt
having shown that unilateral paralysis of an abductor muscle of the
vocal cord (which in the adult so far as respiration is concerned is
perfectly harmless) suffices in a child of 1£ year to produce most
grave dyspnoea necessitating tracheotomy.
    I   regret to say that this question has not been productive of any
satisfactory reply.
    In a paper published since by Jankowski.J some statements occur
which are of interest in connexion with the subject of the present
investigation,      inasmuch as they refer to cases in which both recurrent
   *  'Internationales Ccntralblatt fur Laryngologie,' Ac., 1884, p. 40.
      '
   t    Breslauer Aerztliche Zeitschrift,' No. 10, 1881.
                                                                          "
   J  " Lahmungen der Kehlkopfmuskeln           nach Kropfexstirpation       (' Deutsche
Zeitschrift f. Chirurgie,' vol 12).
   VCL. XLV11I.                                                             2 0

   4215            Dr. F. Semon.         On   the  Position   of the
   laryngeal nerves appear to have been damaged during the operation.
   Unfortunately, however, the reports are in part incomplete, and
   moreover the alterations in the calibre of the trachea due to the
   previous direct compression by the constricting goitre also appear
   to have in many of them played a considerable part in the production
   of the respiratory phenomena observed after the operation.                Thus
   these cases are by no means pure, and can hardly be made use of for
   a decision of the question at issue.           The most important of them
   perhaps is one reported by Riedel,* in which, either due to inunda-
'
   tion of the wound with carbolic acid solution, or, as would seem more
   probable, to tearing of the recurrent laryngeals in the conrse of the
   operation, within two hours from its end dyspnoea developed.               Still
  even in this case evidence is not pure, as one of the pneumogastric
  nerves was simultaneously damaged, and the dyspnoea               may have been
   in part referable to this cause.
      Thus pathological observation on the human subject so far offers a
  much less complete reply to the question concerning                   the effect
  of the reduction of the glottis to the cadaveric width than might
  be theoretically expected, and this point will certainly demand con
  tinued attention.
      All that can at present be fairly said, is that the evidence points in
  the direction that reduction of the glottis to the cadaveric size
  involves, upon the commencement of any effort, however small, some
  alteration in the type of respiration.
      Although the evidence concerning the effects upon the respiration
  in man of the interpolation of the phonatory apparatus leaves a good
  deal to be desired, as shown in the last two chapters, there can be no
  doubt, I think, that its whole tenour goes to show, as would, indeed,
  be expected from the anatomical facts above demonstrated, that this
  interposition presents a considerable hindrance to the function of
  quiet respiration, and that for the fulfilment of the latter function it
  had to be counterbalanced or neutralised to a certain degree.
      This neutralisation could evidently have been effected in one of
  two forms, namely, either in the form of a rhythmical widening and
  closure of the glottis, such as commonly is supposed to exist even
  during tranquil respiration, or in the form of a tonic dilatation of the
  glottis during both phases of quiet respiration (inspiration and
  expiration), supplying the minimum of space compatible with the
  ingress and egress of that amount of air to the lower air passages
  which is required for the purposes of what we call normal quiet
  respiration.
      It has  been  shown    in the preceding chapters that both these
  alternatives are actually met with in the quiet respiration of men,
  and it is hardly necessary to say that they do not in the least exclude
                     • ' Centralblatt fur die m.-d. Wiss.,' 1882.

                Vocal Cords in Quiet Respiration        in Man, $c.         427
   one another.     On the contrary, the tonic opening of the glottis may
  and does at any moment under the influence of emotion, mechanical
  effort, will, reflex irritation, &c, give way to a rhythmical widening
  and narrowing of the glottis, and this again on return of normal
  conditions gives way to the tonic state of widening above described.
  There can, however, be no doubt that this tonic condition is, much
  more than rhythmic movements, representative of the participation
  of the larynx in quiet respiration of man. This has been amply
  demonstrated by the mutual proportions described in a previous
  paragraph.
     The question now arises     :  What  does  this tonic widening represent,
  and how is it produced ?
     It has already been mentioned that it may represent as well a state
  of tonic innervation of both the glottis openers and glottis closers,
  with preponderance of the former, or, secondly, a tonic innervation
  of the abductor muscles alone.
     The existence of the first-named condition has been very ingeniously
  argued for by Rosenbach in the paper referred to above.            He writes
  as follows :
                  " The more                 and    delicate  the
                                 complete                          innervating
  mechanism and the active muscular apparatus are, the more exact
  must, no doubt, be the co-operation            of the muscular groups in
  question.    Now, the action of the vocal cords during respiration and
  phonation requires an extraordinarily delicate mechanism, and the
  position of the arytenoid cartilages depends in a high degree on the
  co-operation of all muscles attached to them.              Nay, disturbances
  would have to be registered far more frequently than is now the case
  if an extensive vicarious action of healthy muscles were not possible,
  replacing those      disabled    from fulfilling their functions.      It is,
  therefore, probable that during the normal position of the vocal
  cords nervous impulses are constantly carried down to both adductors
  and abductors, but that the abductors, being the stronger muscles,
  preponderate, just as in other muscular territories even during
  quiescence the activity of the extensors preponderates.         The stronger
  the inspiratory innervation is, the more will the glottis become
  opened, and the expiratory constriction, so trifling during quiet
  respiration, is very likely to be considered mostly as a remission of
  the innervation of the abductors,         i.e., as a more     passive  occur-
'
  rence."
     In spite, however, of this clever advocacy of a preponderance of
  the abductors over the adductors, both being supposed to act
  simultaneously, the theory seems to me not tenable from whatever
  point of view it be examined.        Anatomical, physiological, and patho
  logical facts equally militate against it.
     In the first place, it is not easy to understand       how the abductors,
  being in number and aggregate         amount of muscular tissue inferior

428                     Dr. F. Seraon.       On the Position     of   the
to their antagonists, could, anatomically considered,                   be the    stronger
Hues, as supposed           in Rosenbach's hypothesis.
     Secondly, the abductors and adductors of the vocal cords, though,
in a certain sense, obviously antagonistic to each other (in that they
 serve the diametrically opposed functions of opening and closing the
 glottis), yet are not in the same sense antagonists as the extensors
 and flexors of a limb. In the case of the latter, the different groups
of muscles presiding over the movements of the part serve pnrposes
 identical in nature and in physiological value ; in the case of the
 laryngeal muscles, however, not only are the functions different in
 physiological importance, but certainly also to some degree quite
 independent of one another.              Whilst it is undoubtedly true that no
  phonatory       effect    can  take  place without respiratory movements at
 the same time coming into play — for phonation is a sort of modiBed
 expiration — yet the reverse of this does not hold good, respiration
 being in no way necessarily connected with phonation.                           There is,
 therefore, no reason why, in the performance of a function which is
independent of that subserved by the antagonistic group of muscles,
 the latter ought to come constantly into play.
     Rosenbach's comparison, therefore, of the laryngeal muscles with
 those of the limbs cannot in this respect be admitted                                to be
  unreservedly        applicable.
     Thirdly, if both groups of muscles, the abductors and adductors,
 were in reality constantly and simultaneously innervated during quiet
 respiration, and if the abductors merely predominated, one would
  naturally expect that, in cases of isolated para lysis of the glottis closers,
 such as in functional aphonia, the glottis should appear much wider
 in quiet respiration than when seen under ordinary circumstances.
  For, under such circumstances, the respiratory tonic innervation of
 the glottis openers would continue to the same degree, whilst the
 antagonistic innervation of the glottis closers, which, according to
  Rosenbach's theory, must previously have counterbalanced, to some
 extent, their abducting force, was absent.                   Yet the glottis of per
 sons suffering from bilateral paralysis of the glottis closers during
 quiet      respiration is not at all wider open than that of normal
 persons.        This again speaks very forcibly against the hypothesis of
 a simultaneous            innervation of the adductors and abductors with
 preponderance of the latter.
     Fourthly, the fact independently demonstrated by Rosenbach him
 self in the paper referred to and by me* in several publications, viz.,
    *         " Clinical remarks  on the proclivity of the abductor fibres of the recurrent
       (a.)
 laryngeal nerve to become affected      sooner than the adductor fibres, or even exclu
 sively,  in  cases  of  undoubted central or peripheral injury or disease of the roots or
trunks of the pneumogastrio, spinal accessory, or recurrent nerves
                                                                            "
                                                                              (' Archives of
Laryngology,' vol. 2, 1881, p. 203).

               Vocal Cords in Quiet Respiration in Man, $c.                               429
that the abductors of the vocal cords are more easily disabled by any
organic mischief acting upon their nerve supply than the adductors,
and that they die sooner after the death of the individual than the
adductors,* can hardly be reconciled with the idea of a preponderance
of their physiological strength over that of the adductors.
   Fifthly, the central conditions of the innervation of the two laryn
geal groups of muscles also tell, as I hope to show in a paper which ]
shall shortly bring before the Royal. Society in conjunction with
Professor Victor Horsley, against the physiological preponderance of
 the abductors over the adductors.
    Sixthly and lastly, the coup de grace is given to this idea by the
 fact that stimulation of the cut end of the recurrent laryngeal in most,
 species of animals (except the cat) results — if no undue influence of
 the anaesthetic used during the experiment comes into playf — in the
 corresponding vocal cord being drawn towards the middle line, i.e.,
 the adductors preponderate over the abductors, though both groups of
 fibres are equally strongly stimulated.   This fact, needless to say, is
 wholly incompatible   with the  idea of preponderance of the abductor
 over the adductor muscles.
   Thus from whatever point of view the question of the simultaneous
innervation of the adductors and abductors, with preponderance of
the latter during quiet respiration, be looked upon, there is no evi
dence for the existence of such a condition, and there are many
arguments against it.
   It    is,
          indeed, much more probable that there    primarily a strict
                                                                   is
differentiation   between the two antagonistic groups of laryngeal
muscles (the phonatory and respiratory ones) and that, though
there    under certain circumstances a transition of the functions of
         is
the one into those of the other, yet for the purposes of respiration
under ordinary circumstances the respiratory muscles, i.e., the poste
rior crico-arytenoid muscles, alone are engaged, being during inspiration
and during expiration in a state of semi-tonus, in order to counter
balance the partial obstruction created by the interpolation of the
phonatory into the respiratory apparatus.
   This idea, indeed, more or less clearly expressed, has been before
the minds of a good many of those who since the beginning of this
century have worked in this field of investigation.         It has been
shown above that Legallois was quite conscious of the necessity of
such a tonus existing. Luschka, again (Joe. cit.), and Schech (loc. cit.)
         " Uebcr   die L&hmung tier cinzelnen Fasergattungen        des Nervus       laryngeus
  (4.)
                      "
^inferior (recurrens)     ('Berl. Klin. Vfocheuschrift,'   1883, No. 46, el teq.).
   * " On an apparently  peripheral and differential Action of Ether upon the
Laryngeal Muscles."    By Felix Semon and Victor Horsley        British Medical
                                                                        ('
Journal,' and 11 Sept., 1886).
           4
  +  Compare the last-named paper by Scnion and Horsley, p. 31.
                                                                             2
                                                                             o
                                                                             2

                 Dr. F. Semon.        On the Position of the
speak    very clearly of the necessity      of the existence of a similar
arrangement.       The full physiological importance of it, however,
appears to have only comparatively recently occurred to Krause and
to myself, independently of one another, and to have been brought
forward equally independently and simultaneously at the Inter
national Congress of 1884, as stated at the beginning of this
paper.
   The existence of such a tonus fully explains the difference between
the conditions of the glottis an seen during quiet respiration and after
death, and explains also why the interposition of the phonatory
apparatus in the air passages has not been followed by any change in
the type of normal respiration in man. In virtue of their preventing
such a change, i.e., of either increased labour on the part of the
regular muscles of respiration or of the accessory muscles of respira
tion having to work constantly even during quiet respiration, the
glottis openers, i.e., the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles, appear to
me to deserve undoubtedly a mvch higher position in the mechanism of
respiration than has    been so far accorded to them.
   The only remaining question then would be : is this tonus of the
abductor muscles an automatic one P i.e., is it induced in the respira
tory centre itself, or is it of the nature of a reflex tonus, i.e., only
engendered in the respiratory centre through peripheral influences ?
   Athough it has been shown by Rosenthal that the respiratory
centre in the medulla oblongata, even after the section of both pneu-
mogastric Derves, and after removal of the cerebrum as well as after
section of the cervical part of the spinal cord, is capable of engender
ing rhythmic movements (so that its action in a certain sense must
certainly be looked upon as an automatic one), yet at the same time
there can bo no doubt as to the existence of afferent impulses com
municated     to it along the most various peripheral nerves, and most
of all along the main trunk of the pneumogastric.        Whilst therefore,
a priori, it would not at all be impossible that the tonus of the
abductors of the vocal cords might originate in the respiratory centre
itself, it seemed, in concord with general experiences concerning the
nervous mechanism of respiration, at least equally probable, that
impulses might be conducted rhythmically along the afferent fibres of
the pneumogastric nerves to the respiratory centre, and there be
changed into a tonic semi-innervation of the posterior crico-arytenoid
muscles, which again under the influence of any of the extraneous
causes    above mentioned      could be changed into rhythmical impulses
coincident with and renewed with every respiratory movement.
   It occurred to me that a more definite solution of this question
 might    be hoped    for, if it were possible to cut both pneumogastric
nerves below the points from which the recurrent laryngeal nerves
are given off. One could not hope that this experiment would dcti

                Vocal Cords    in Quiet Respiration in Man,   fyc.       4.11
nitely settle the question, because in animals, especially under the
 influence of anaesthetics, only rarely is a condition observed during
respiration analogous to that seen in quiet respiration in man, their
vocal cords, on the contrary, making very energetic rhythmical ex
cursions.       Still, it seemed legitimate to submit this question to
experimental proof, because, even with these respiratory excursions,
 it was to be expected that if respiratory influences governing the
 action of the glottis-openers        reached the respiratory centres along
 the trunks of the pneumogastric nerves, the excursions of the vocal
 cords after section of the latter would very much diminish in in
 tensity,  and,  if they were exclusively conducted along these paths, that
after section of the pneumogastries below the points of departure of
the recurrents, the glottis would not open any further than to the
cadaveric position.
    Professor      Victor Horsley was kind enough          to  snbmit these
 theoretical considerations      to experimental proof.   On April 17, 1890,
 he,  in the presence of Mr. Embleton and of myself, performed the
following experiment : A small adult female fox terrier was etherised
 and    tracheotornised   ;  the   narcosis  was afterwards   kept up with
 chloroform.       First the right, afterwards the left, vagus was laid bare,
and both nerves were cut about 1 centimetre below the points where
the right recurrent laryngeal winds round the subclavian artery and
 the left round the aorta.        As soon as the pleura was opened in order
to get at the left vagus, artificial respiration was started and main
 tained until the end of the experiment.
    Whilst previous to the cutting of the right vagus (and also after
the division) the thorax as well as the vocal cords made very extensive
 and energetic rhythmical respiratory excursions (the glottis during
inspiration being opened to its fullest extent), the respiratory excur
sions of the cords were, after section of the second vagus (the left),
equally energetic but much less extensive, the glottis during respira
tion opening only to the cadaveric position.
    The animal was killed by asphyxia; during its final forcible respi
ratory efforts the glottis again opened, during inspiration, to its fullest
extent.
    Dissection after death showed that both recurrent nerves were
quite uninjured.
    This experiment certainly went far to prove that respiratory
impulses influencing the action of the posterior crico-arytenoid muscles
reached the respiratory centre, and, more precisely speaking, the gan
glionic centres of these abductor muscles, through the medium of the
pneumogastric nerves.          At the same time the full dilatation of the
glottis during      the  asphytic stage of the animal, seemed to point out
that the impulses thus engendered cannot be the only ones reaching
these ganglionic centres, and that the respiratory centre, so far as the

432              Dr.  F. Semon.      On the Position  of the
larynx is concerned,      may also be influenced   through other afferent
impulses.
   To settle this point, if possible, more definitely, the experiment was
repeated on May 8, 1890. A small castrated fox terrier was etherised
and    tracheotomised.     Narcosis was afterwards kept up by ether.
   The right vagus was laid bare below the line of departure of the
right recurrent laryngeal nerve.        Both cords made very energetic
and extensive rhythmical respiratory excursions.          The right vagus
was cut more than 1 cm. below the point of departure of the right
recurrent laryngeal nerve.       Both cords continued their excursions as
if nothing had happened.
   A subcutaneous injection of 5 grains of acetate of morphia was now
made into the dog's thigh, the left vagus was then exposed, artificial
respiration being started as soon as the pleura was opened previous
to the section of the left vagus.      It was again ascertained that the
glottis still opened at maximum during inspiration. The left vagus
was then cut about 1 cm. below the arch of the aorta, and it was now
observed that, together with very considerable slowing of the two
phases of respiration, the glottis, though it still opened widely, and
certainly much beyond the cadaveric position, yet no longer opened
nearly as widely as before, when the vocal cords during inspiration
.¦ictually completely disappeared from view.
   A very remarkable phenomenon was observed in connexion with
the artificial respiration. Whenever the dog's lungs were well aerated,
the excursions of the cords, though good, corresponded to the descrip
tion given above of the conditions as occurring after section of the
vagi, but as soon as asphyxia became threatening the glottis at once
opened, as    previously to the section, ad maximum.
   The dog    was killed by asphyxia.    Post-mortem examination showed
that both     vagi  had   been cut very considerably     below the points
where the     recurrents were given off, and that the latter were quite
uninjured.
   This experiment, then, in every respect tends to corroborate the
conclusions drawn from the former, i.e., that whilst the inspiratory
impulses which act upon the ganglionic centres of the abductor
muscles and which in animals more frequently induce rhythmical
excursions of the vocal cords, but in man tonic semi-dilatation of the
 glottis, are of a reflex character, and are mainly conducted along the
pneumogastric nerves, yet the latter are by no means the only source
of this reflex innervation.
   The question raised in the foregoing paragraphs will certainly
 demand still further elucidation, and the results arrived at in this
paper will no doubt have to be checked by future observers.          Still I
 think that, as the outcome of the investigation, so far as it has been
 conducted, the following conclusions may be drawn : —

               Vocal Cords in Quiet Respiration in Man,      fyc.       433
    First, the glottis in man is wider open daring quiet respiration
(inspiration and expiration) than after death or after division of the
vagi or recnrrent laryngeal nerves.
    Second, this wider opening during life is the result of a permanent
activity (tonus) of the ahdnctors of the vocal cords (posterior crico
arytenoid muscles) which, therefore, belong not merely to the class
of accessory, but of regular, respiratory muscles.
    Thirdly, the activity of these muscles is due to tonic impulses
which their ganglionic centres receive from the neighbouring respira
tory centre in the medulla oblongata.        It is very probable that these
impulses rhythmically proceed to the respiratory centre from the
stimulation of certain afferent fibres contained mainly, but not
exclusively, in the trunks of the pneumogastric nerves, and that they
are in the respiratory centre changed into tonic impulses.              The
regnlar activity of the abductors of the vocal cords during life, there
fore, belongs to the class of reflex processes. The permanent half-
contraction of these muscles, in which form their tonic innervation is
 manifested, can be further increased, in concord with the general
 laws of the mechanism of respiration, by either volition or other reflex
 influences.
    Fourthly, in spite of their extra innervation, the abductors of the
 vocal cords are physiologically weaker than their antagonists.
     Fifthly, these antagonists, the adductors     of the vocal cords, have
 primarily nothing at all to do with respiration and ordinarily serve
 the function of phonation only.           Their respiratory functions are
 limited to
     (a.) Assistance in the protection of the lower air passages against
             the entry of foreign bodies ;
     (6.) Assistance   in the modified and casual forms of expiration
             known as cough and laughing.
     VOL. XLVIII.                                                 2 H

434           Prof.      J.  V. Jones.      Determination        of the   [Nov. 20,
                                November 20, 1890.
      Sir G. GABRIEL STOKES, Bart., President, in the Chair.
   In  pursuance of the Statutes, notice             of the ensuing Anniversary
Meeting was given from the Chair.
   Sir James Cockle, Mr. A. A. Common, Professor G. Carey Foster,
the Rev. Professor Price, and Dr. Rae were by ballot elected Auditors
of the Treasurer's accounts on the part of the Society.
    The Presents     received were laid on the table, and thanks ordered
for them.
   The following Papers were read : —
I. " On   the Determination of the Specific Resistance of Mercury
      in Absolute Measure."                By J. V. Jones, Principal and
      Professor of Physics in the University College of South
      Wales and Monmouthshire, Cardiff.                         Communicated      by
      Professor   Clifton,       F.R.S.      Received August          8, 1890.
                                    (Abstract.)
   In the hope of paving the way for a more accurate determination
of the ohm, the author has for a considerable time been engaged in
submitting to the test of experiment certain modifications of the
method of Lorenz which occurred to him as likely to lead to increased
accuracy and certainty.          The experiments have been made in the
laboratory of the University College, Cardiff, with apparatus for the
most part constructed in the College workshop.                  Five complete sets of
observations were taken in the spring of this year, with the following
results for the specific resistance of mercury at 0° C. : —
                   (i.) 94,103 absolute C.G.S. units.
                  (ii.) 94,074         »i         ii        ii
                 (iii.) 94,093         ii         ii        ii
                 (iv.) 94,045          ii         ii        ii
                  (v.) 94,021           ii        ii         ii
             Mean    . .    94,067 + 10 (probable        error).
   The result may        be otherwise      expressed by saying that the ohm is

1890.]        Specific Resistance   of Mercury in Absolute Measure.        435
equal to the resistance of a column of mercury of 1 square mm. sectional
area and 106'307 cm. long, the probable error being +0"012.
   The author does not bring these numbers forward as the best deter
mination possible by the method he has used. He is of opinion that
if the apparatus      be constructed          little larger and with a
                                         on a scale a
certain perfecting of detail, a single set of observations will give a
result accurate to one part in 10,000, and that as a mean of a number
of obsei-vations we may perhaps aim at the hundred-thousandth if
regard is paid to the maintenance of definite temperatures in all parts
of the apparatus, and if we can be said to know oar length-standards
to this degree of accuracy.
   The observations were made by the method of Lorenz directly on
mercury. The chief variations in the method introduced in the
present investigation are as follows : —
   (i) The elimination by    a system of differential measurements of the
          errors that have so far attended the use of a mercury column
          as the measured resistance.
   Lorenz himself took for his measured resistance the resistance of a
mercury column contained in a glass tube, and the specific resistance
was calculated from the dimensions of the column. It is hardly possible,
however, that the latter calculation can have been, or is likely to be,
achieved with accuracy, however accurately the tube be calibrated.
For, on the one hand, if the wires from the disc (the terminal
portions of which may be called the electrodes) are led to the ends of
the tube, the equi-potential surfaces touched by them are not plane ;
and, on the other, if they are let into the tube at some distance from
the ends, it is difficult to see how the distance between them is to be
measnred with the requisite accuracy.
    These difficulties disappear       if,
                                     instead of placing the mercury in a
tube,    it  placed in a long trough, and
              is                                  if,
                                                 instead of measuring the
distance   between    two  electrodes, one electrode     kept fixed while
                                                        is
measurement          made of the distance moved through by the other
                    is
between two equilibrium positions corresponding           to two different
rates of rotation of- the disc.     The latter measurement    it   easy to
                                                                   is
 make with accuracy, for the movable electrode may be rigidly
 attached to the movable headstock of Whitworth measuring machine
                                              a
or some other measuring bank placed parallel to the length of the
 trough and the two equilibrium positions may be taken near the
          ;
 middle of the trough so as to avoid danger of curvature in the equi-
 potential surfaces passing through the electrode in its two positions.
    Let Wj, »2 be the rates of rotation of the disc, and let       Ibe the
 distance between      the  corresponding    equilibrium positions of the
 movable electrode.
                                                              2    E   2

436                        Specific Resistance              of Mercury.      [Nov. 20,
  Then                              M (r^— ng) = -^p,
where                    M = the coefficient of mutual induction of coil and
                                      disc    ;
                          p = the specific resistance of mercury ;
                          A = area of section of the mercury column.
   The capillary depression at the sides of the trough would make it
a serious task to determine       the section of the mercury column
by   direct  measurement   to the  required degree of accuracy.     This
difficulty is overcome by a further differential method, viz., by making
observations with the mercury at two different heights in the trough.
  Let       6     = the breadth of the trough ;
      ho—   fcj   = the difference of height of the mercury surface in the
                        two   cases   ;   and let
            A     = the section of the mercury column when the mercury              is
                        at the lower position.
   Then we have, denoting by dashed letters the new values of the
rates of rotation and the distance between the corresponding equi
librium positions —
                                      M   (na
                                                  —   »,) =     — p,
and                                 M(»'1-<,)               =
                                                                ATr(^-^);
whence, eliminating            A,
                                                  Mb   (ht-h,)
                                    p=                           I
                                                                         ¦
                                                  1
                                                  —             nj— ng
                                             n\       n'i
  It is assumed in the above formula that the sides of the trough in
that part of   traversed by the movable electrode are plane, parallel,
                   it
and vertical.
   The trough used in the experiments described was cnt in paraffin
wax, contained in a strong casting of iron, with its sides strengthened
by outside ribs. The channel       approximately 43-5 inches long
                                                  is                                by
I'S inches brood by      inches deep.
                                3        It was first cnt by cutter           a
rotating about 2000 times    minute, attached to the slide rest of the
                                          a
College Whitworth lathe, and subsequently finished by a scraper,
attached in similar fashion, which took a very thin cut off sides and
bottom.   The result of the scraping was a very smooth and highly-
finished surface.

1890.]               The Spectroscopic Properties     of Dust.           437
    (ii) The use of       a standard    coil with a single layer of wire, the
          coefficient of mutual induction of the coil and circumference of
          the disc being calculated by a formula obtained by the direct
          integration of the expression
                                  jj — COB.
                                   f f ds  ds
 for  a circle and    coaxial helix.
    (iii) The    nse  of  a new  form of contact brush at the disc circum
          ference, which procures         greatly increased steadiness in the
          galvanometer needle.
    The brush consists of a single wire of phosphor bronze, perforated
           by a channel through which a continuous flow of mercury is
          maintained from a cistern of adjustable height.
    Incidentally, a description is given of an accurate method of measur
 ing the vibration frequency of a standard tuning-fork by means of a
Bain's electrochemical telegraph receiver.
    In   conclusion,   suggestions are made towards a new determination
of the ohm that shall be final for the practical purposes of the
electrical engineer.
II.    " The     Spectroscopic        Properties    of Dust."      By G. D.
        Liveing, M.A., F.R.S.,          Professor of Chemistry, and J.
        Dewab, M.A., F.R.S.. Jacksonian Professor, University of
        Cambridge.        Received August 16, 1890.
   The suggestion        that the auroral spectrum, the principal ray in the
spectrum of nebulae, and other rays of unknown origin, might be due
to meteoric dnst induced us to investigate the problem whether solid
particles of sufficient minuteness would act like gaseous molecules in
an electric discharge and become luminons with their characteristic
special radiation. The dust we employed was that thrown off from
the surface of various electrodes by a disruptive discharge, and it
was carried forward into the tube of observation by a more or less
rapid current of air or other gas. The arrangement will be best
understood from the annexed diagram, which represents a section of
the glass vessel which was the principal part of the apparatus.            A
represents a bulb in which were the electrodes a, a to give the dust,
connected by a widish tube d with the tube for observation B. The
end E was blown clear, so that the narrow part of B could be ob
served end-on.         The electrodes e, e were of platinum. The tube g,
passing from A to the supply of gas, was fitted with a glass stopcock

438              Messrs. G. D.  Liveing and    J. Dewar.      [Nov. 20,
 C for regulating the intake, and the tube h led from the distant end of
 B to the air-pump. The air-pump was a large one worked by a gas-
 engine capable of keeping the pressure down to a few millimetres,
 even with a considerable leakage.       Observations were made of the
 discharge in B at various low pressures, sometimes with, and at other
 times without, a Leyden jar in circuit.    The sparks in A were gener
 ally taken with a jar, and there was ample proof, if proof were
 needed, of the dust derived from the electrodes, since it formed a
 visible deposit in the tube d, in the first bulb of B, and even on the
 end E. The air or other gas passed into A was filtered through
 cotton- wool to remove all dust before admission to the apparatus.
    Various metals were used as electrodes in A, magnesium, iron,
 manganese, cadmium, fused calcium chloride, metallic sodium in a
 little glass cup on a platinum wire, and fragments of the Dhunnsala
 meteorite ; but in no case could the rays of any of the substances
  employed be seen in the discharge through B, either when a Leyden
 jar was in circuit or not.
     Incidentally, we found that magnesium electrodes were not so good
  as some of the other metals for these experiments, because the appa
 ratus was never wholly free from traces of air, and lines or bright
 edges of bands of nitrogen fall very near the most characteristic lines
 of magnesium, and with small dispersion might easily be mistaken
 for them.
     Air, hydrogen, carbon dioxide, and oxygen, were successively used
  as the gases passing through the apparatus, and at various pressures
 from 2 mm. up to 20, and, in some cases, up to 40 mm., but with the
  same result ; no rays, due to the electrodes in A, could be detected in
 B. Even when one of the electrodes in A was sodium, and the
  sodium rays, orange, yellow, citron, green, and blue, were brilliant in
  the spectrum of A, not even the D lines could be detected in B.     We
  should have expected that some traces of sodium in the state of vapour
  would have been carried by the stream of hydrogen into B ; but it
  seems that it was not so ; nor could the apparent absence of rays

1890.]           The Spectroscopic Properties    of Dust.             439
due to the dust, be ascribed to mere faintness in their light, for we
took photographs of the spectrum of B, and found that even length
ened exposures produced no evidence of rays due to the dust ; nor
could   it be ascribed to the character of the discharge in B, for the
discharge was varied ; sometimes A and B were in the same circuit ;
sometimes the discharge in B was from a separate coil, and even the
powerful discharge from a large coil stimulated by a De Meritens'
magneto-electric machine, was tried.
    That abundance of dust was formed by the sparking in A was
proved not only by the deposit in the tube, but by allowing the
stream of gas at atmospheric pressure from the tube h (of course
disconnected from the pump) to impinge on a flame, when the charac
teristic flame-spectrum of the electrodes in A was at once manifest.
When the gas used was hydrogen, and it was burnt in oxygen, the
spectrum of the electrodes was particularly well seen ; also when
the gas was oxygen and led into a hydrogen flame.
    That the dust was of extreme fineness and capable of being carried
by a stream of gas to a great distance was proved as follows : — A
stream of hydrogen, at ordinary pressure, was passed through the
sparking tube with magnesium electrodes, and then through more
than 100 feet of metal tube in a coil, and, finally, burnt as it issued.
Before the sparking began there were no signs of magnesium in the
flame ; but when sparks had been passing between the magnesium
electrodes for a short time, the magnesium spectrum was seen in the
flame.    It took 55 seconds for the gas to carry the dust through the
long pipe, and when the sparking ceased it was again about the same
time before the magnesium disappeared from the flame. It always
appeared and disappeared sharply in correspondence with the spark
ing.    Similar experiments, but with a shorter tube, were made with
other metals, iron, sodium, lithium, &c, always with like results;
also a current of oxygen was passed through the sparking tube and
into a flame of hydrogen, and produced similar effects. Even alu
minium, which does not usually show any part of its spectrum when
used as an electrode in a vacuous tube, gave, when sparked in oxygon,
dust which, when carried into a hydrogen flame, showed the charac
teristic bands of alumina.
    Considering that a sensible amount of dust was deposited in the
bulbs of B, we should have expected that some would be deposited on
 the electrodes e, e in that tube, and that the discharge from electrodes
so coated     would give the spectrum of the metal on their surface.
There is no doubt that when no discharge was taking place in B the
electrodes e, e did receive their share of dust ; and, if it had been
 allowed to accumulate so as to form a coherent crust, it would have
 given its characteristic spectrum on first passing sparks in B. But,
 so long as the dust is loose, the passage of a discharge instantly clears

440                         Mr. J.  Joly.    On  tlu>
                                                                  [Nov. 20,
the electrodes of all dust, and seems to dispel all dnst from the gas
through which the discharge occurs.             It is well known that an
electric discharge in a vessel of air has the effect of clearing out of the
 air all the particles that serve  as nuclei  for the condensation of water ;
 and we made several experiments with        a view to determine   whether a
 similar effect was produced on the dust in our tubes. The gas from
the sparking tube was carried through a glass globe, and so on to the
jet where it was burned ; a wire connected with one pole of a Voss or
 Wimshurst electric machine projected into the interior of the globe,
 and a patch of tinfoil on the outside of the globe was connected with
 the other pole of the electric machine.       So long as the Voss machine
 was not    worked,   the gas carried the dust from the sparking tube
 through the globe, and it was seen in the spectrum of the flame, or
 simply in the colour of the flame when lithium was one of the elec
 trodes ; but, on working the machine so as to produce a silent dis
charge inside the globe, the flame, in one or two seconds, suddenly
ceased to show the spectrum of the dust, and in the case of the
lithium lost its red colour. When the machine was no longer worked,
 the spectrum or colour speedily reappeared, to vanish again suddenly
 when the machine was started afresh.          When a narrow tube, with a
 piece of tinfoil outside and a wire inside, was substituted for the
 globe, tho like results ensued.
    It appears, then, not only that dust, however fine, suspended in a
 gas will not act like gaseous matter in becoming luminous with its
 characteristic spectrum in an electric discharge, but that it is
 driven with extraordinary rapidity out of the course of the discharge.
 If, then, the spectrum of the aurora be due, not to the ordinary con
 stituents of our atmosphere, but to adventitious matter from planetary
 space, we conclude that such matter must be in, or must be brought
 into, the gaseous state, or at least have its properties entirely altered
 from those it possesses at ordinary temperatures, before it becomes
 luminous in the electric discharge.
III. "On      the   Specific Heats of Gases at Constant Volume.
       Part I. Air, Carbon Dioxide, and Hydrogen." By               J. Jolt,
       M.A., B.E., Assistant to the Professor of Civil Engineering,
       Trinity College, Dublin.           Communicated        by Professor
       Fitzgerald, M.A., F.R.S., F.T.C.D. Received September 2,
       1890.
                                  (Abstract.)
    In this first  notice the specific heats, at constant volumes, of air,
carbon     dioxide, and   hydrogen are treated over pressures ranging
from   7 to 25 atmospheres.     The range of temperature is not sensibly

1890.]           Specific Heats     of   Gases at Constant   Volume.       441
varied.    Itis found that the specific heats of these gases are not
constant, but are variable with the density.    In the case of air the
departure from constancy is small and positive ; that               is,
                                                            the specific
heat increases with increase of the density.   The experiments afford
directly the mean value 0'1721 for the specific heat of air at the
absolute density of 0'0205, corresponding to the pressure of 19"51
atmospheres.     A formula based on the variation of the specific heat
with density observed in the experiments ascribes the value 0'1715
for the specific heat at the pressure of one atmosphere.   The formula
assumes the specific heat to be a linear function of the density, which
must as yet be regarded only as an approximation, the exact nature
of the relation being concealed by variations among the experiments.
   These results appear to be in harmony with the experiments of
Wiedemann on the specific heat at constant pressure, and of Rowland
on the mechanical equivalent of heat, from which the value 0'1712            is
deduced for Ct at 760 mm.
   The experiments on carbon dioxide reveal     more rapid variation of
                                                        a
the specific heat with density, the variation iu this case being again
positive in sign.   The formula
                               C, = Px 0-2064+0-16577
appears with considerable           reliability to express the relation between
specific heat and density.
   The relation between specific heat and density in the case of
hydrogen       of a negative character; that is, the specific heat
                is
diminishes with increase of density.      The experiments are chiefly
directed to elucidate this point, for, owing to the difficulty of pre
paring pnre hydrogen,       was found that variations in the quantita
                               it
tive results of experiments on different samples of the gas were
unavoidable.     Accordingly the experiments were directed to a com
parison of the specific heats of like samples of the gas at different
densities.   The variation with density     small, but (with one excep
                                                  is
tion)   all experiments   on  the purer  hydrogen     ascribe a negative
character to it.
   The nature of these variations of specific heat with change of
density     in the case of the three gases, in accord with their beha
          is,
viour as regards Boyle's law, within the limits of pressure.
   The experiments were effected in the steam calorimeter,     differential
                                                                       a
method being used in which an empty or idle vessel         thermally com
                                                               is
pared with the vessel holding the gas at high pressure.        The vessels
possessing approximately the same calorific       capacity, the result,
theoretically,    as is the gas was dealt with isolated from any con
                          if
taining vessel. Although practically this     not attained, many sources
                                                   is
of error are eliminated by the procedure adopted.

442                          Dr. J.  Hopkinson.                  [Nov. 20,
IV. "    Magnetism     and Recalescence."      By J. Hopkinson,      D.Sc,
                    F.R.S. Received October 9, 1890.
   In   my experiments     the results   of which   are published, ' Phil.
Trans.,' 1889, A, p. 443,  I showed that recalescence and the disappear
ance of magnetisability in iron and steel occurred at ahout the same
temperature.       The evidence  I then gave was sufficiently satisfactory,
but did not amount to absolute proof of the identity of the tempera
tures.    Osmond has shown that the temperature             of recalescence
depends upon the temperature to which the iron has been heated, also
that   it differs when the iron is heated and when it is cooled.         He
also showed that for some sorts of steel the heat is liberated at more
than one temperature, notably that in steel with 0"29 per cent, of
carbon heat is liberated when cooling at 720° C. and at 660° C, and
that with steel with 0'32 per cent, carbon there is a considerable
liberation of heat before the temperature is reached when this
becomes a maximum.         It appeared  to be desirable to obtain absolute
proof that the change of magnetic         property occurred exactly when
heat    was liberated and absorbed, and to examine, magnetically,
Osmond's two temperatures of heat liberation.         I have not been able
to obtain samples of steel of the size   I used, showing two well marked
                                                          I
temperatures of heat liberation and absorption, but have a ring in
which there is liberation of heat extending over a considerable range
of temperature.
   The samples had the form of rings of the size and shape indicated
in fig. 1. A copper wire was well insnlated with asbestos and laid
in the groove running round the ring, and was covered with several
layers of asbestos paper laid in the groove.        This coil was used for
measuring temperature by its resistance. The whole ring was served
over with asbestos paper and with sheets of mica.            The secondary
exploring coil was then wound on, next a serving of asbestos paper
and mica, and then the primary coil, and, lastly, a good serving of
asbestos paper was laid over all. In this way good insulation of the
secondary coil was secured, and a reasonable certainty that the tem
perature coil took the precise temperature of the ring, and that at
any time the ring was throughout at one and the same temperature.
 The whole was placed in an iron pot, and this again in a Fletcher gas
furnace.     Observations were made of temperature as the furnace was
heating,   and   from time to time of induction.     In each case the time
of observation was noted.        Similar observations were made as the
ring cooled, the furnace being simply extinguished.           We are thus
 enabled to compare directly at the same instant the condition of the
 same ring as regards magnetism and as regards temperature, and,

1890.]                  Magnetism and Recalescence.                        443
                                •   Fig.  1.
therefore,    qualitatively  as regards      its absorption   or liberation of
heat.
   In  fig. 2 are the results for a ring containing 0'3 per cent, of carbon
or thereabouts.     In this case only a cooling curve was taken. It -will
be observed that there is a considerable liberation of heat, beginning
at 2 h. 12 m., temperature 715° C, and continuing to time 2 h. 22 m.,
temperature 660° C, being apparently somewhat slower at the end.
This may, however, be only apparently slower, as the furnace tem
perature would fall lower in relation to the ring.          At time 2 h. 22 m.,
temperature 660° 0., the rate of liberation becomes much more rapid,
so much so that the temperature for a time remains almost stationary.
At time 2 h. 29 m. the liberation of heat appears to have ceased and
the normal cooling to continue.           Now, comparing the kicks of the
galvanometer, which are proportional to the induction, we observe
that the ring begins to be magnetisable at time 2 h. 12 m., its
magnetic property increases till time 2 h. 22 m. ; after this point the
magnetisability increases much more rapidly, and is practically
fully developed at 2 h. 31 m.            In this case the development of
magnetic      property follows precisely          the    liberation of heat,
observed both at the temperature of about 700° C. and at 660° C.
Wo may, therefore, be certain, that both at the higher and lower
temperatures of recalescence there is magnetic change, and that the
one is as much dependent on the other as the solid condition of ice is
upon the liberation of heat when water solidifies.            The two changes

444                         Dr.  J. Hopkinson.                  [Nov. 20,
                                    Fig. 2.
occur, not only at the same temperature, but simultaneously. A con
siderable    magnetising force, 6*56, was taken, as it was expected and
found that the magnetic property would then be more apparent when
it was in the intermediate condition between the two temperatures of
recalescence.
   In fig. 3 are the results of a ring containing 0'9 per cent, of carbon.
In this case we have a curve of heating and of cooling with magnetic
property for comparison, and also a second cooling curve to show the
recalescence temperature when the heating had been higher.          Unfor
tunately    I had forgotten to record the magnetising force       ; it was,
however, much less than in the last case, probably less than unity.
Looking at the curve, we see that there is a slight absorption of heat
at time 11 h. 17 m., temperature 710° C. with doubtful effect on the
magnetism. At time 11 h. 527 m., temperature 770° C, powerful absorp
tion of heat begins and continues to time 11 h. 55 m., temperature
808° C. ; it is between these times that the magnetisability is de-


446                                 Presents.                         [Nov. 20,
creasing, and at the latter time that it finally disappears.          The heat
ing was continued to about 840° C, and the flame was then put out.
In cooling, heat is liberated at one point only, and in this          case   with
a distinct rise of temperature.       The recalescence begins at time 3 h.
47 m., temperature 750° C, and it is precisely at this time that the
ring begins to be magnetisable.         The recalescence continues to time
4 h. 8 m., and at this time, and not before it, the magnetisability
practically attains a maximum.         Before the last portion of the curve
the ring was heated to 966° C.           Here no observations were made
magnetically.      This  part of the  curve,  therefore, only shows the effect
of higher heating in lowering the temperature of recalescence.
    These experiments show that the liberation and absorption of heat,
 known as recalescence, and the change in magnetic condition, occur
 simultaneously.     Also that in the case of steel with 0 3 per cent, of
 carbon both temperatures of liberation of heat are associated with
 change of magnetic condition.
                         Presents, November 20, 1890.
 Transactions.
    Baltimore: — Johns      Hopkins    University.       Circulars.    Vol. IX.
         Nos. 81-82.      4to. Baltimore 1890; The Negro in Maryland.
         By J. R. Brackett. 8vo. Baltimore 1889.                The University.
             —
    Berlin : Deutsche Chemische Gesellschaft.                Berichte.     Jahrg.
         XXIII. Nos. 1-9. 8vo. Berlin 1890; Verzeichniss der Mit-
         glieder, Januar, 1890.      8vo. Berlin.                   The Society.
      Gesellschaft fur Brdkunde. Verhandlungen. Bd. XVII. Nos.
         4-7. 8vo. Berlin 1890 ; Zeitschrift.           Bd. XXV.       Heft 3-4.
         8vo. Berlin 1890.                                          The Society.
      K. Preuss. Akademie der Wissenschaf ten. Abhandlungen. 1889.
         4to. Berlin 1890.                                        The Academy.
    Bremen : — Naturwissenschaftlicher Verein.            Abhandlungen. Bd.
         XI. Heft 1-2.          8vo. Bremen 1890.                    The Verein.
    Brussels : — Acad6mie Boyale de Medecine de Belgique.              M^moires
         Couronnes et autres Memoires.          Tome   IX.   Fasc. 3.   Tome    X.
         Fasc. 2-3.     8vo. Bruxelles 1890.                      The Academy.
    Calcutta: — Asiatic Society of Bengal.              Journal (Nat. Hist.).
          Vol. LVII.       Part 2.     No. 5.       8vo. Calcutta 1890 ; Vol.
         LIX.       Part 2.      No. 1, with Supplement.            8vo. Calcutta
         1890; Journal (Philology).            Vol. LVIII.       Part 1. Sup
         plement.     8vo. Calcutta 1890 ; Vol. LIX. Part 1. Nos. 1-2.
         8vo. Calcutta 1890; Proceedings.             1890.    Nos. 1-3.      8vo.
          Calcutta.                                                  The Society.
       Indian Museum.        Notes on Indian Economic Entomology. Vol.
          I. No. 4. 8vo. Calcutta 1890.                            The Museum.

1890.J                            Presents.                                447
Transactions (continued).
  Cambridge, Mass. : — American Association for the Advancement
        of Science.     Proceedings. 1889.       8vo. Salem 1890.
                                                             The Association.
     Harvard College.       Museum of Comparative Zoology.            Bulletin.
        Vol. XVI. Nos. 8-9. Vol. XIX. No. 4. Vol. XX. Nos.
        1-2.      8vo. Cambridge 1890; Memoirs. Vol. XVI.               No. 3.
        4to. Cambridge 1889.                                     The Museum.
   Canada: — Royal Society.        Proceedings and Transactions. 1889.
        4to. Montreal 1890.                                       The Society.
             —
   Dublin : Royal Dublin Society. Scientific Proceedings. Vol. VI.
        Parts 7-9. 8vo. Dublin 1889-90.                           The Society.
     Royal Irish Academy.         Proceedings.      Ser. 3.   Vol. I. No. 3.
        8vo. Dublin 1890.                                       The Academy.
     Royal Society of Antiquaries of Ireland.                Journal of the
        Proceedings.      Ser. 5. Vol. I. No. 2. 8vo. Dublin 1890.
                                                                  The Society.
   Edinburgh: — Royal Society.          Proceedings.    Vol. XVI (pp. 385-
        846).      8vo. [Edinburgh 1890] ; Transactions. Vol. XXXV.
        Parts 2-4. 4to. [Edinburgh] 1890                          The Society.
   Liverpool   : —  Geological Society.    Proceedings.     Vol.  VI.  Part 2.
        8vo. Liverpool 1890.                                      The Society.
   London : — Aristotelian Society.         Proceedings.     Vol. I. No. 3.
         Part 2. 8vo. London [1890].                              The Society.
      British Museum : — General Catalogue of Printed Books. A-Lau,
         &c.     4to.   London 1882-90 ; Catalogue of the Cuneiform
         Tablets in the Kouyunjik Collection. Vol. I. 8vo. London
         1889 ; Catalogue of Oriental Coins.         Vol. IX. 8vo. London
         1889.                                                   The Trustees.
      British Mnseum (Natural History) : — An Introduction to the
         Study of Minerals.       8vo. London 1888 ; An Introduction to
         the Study of Meteorites ; 8vo. London 1890.
                                                                 The Trustees.
      Clinical Society.       Transactions.     Vol. XXIII.       8vo. London
         1890.                                                    The Society.
      East India Association. Journal.         Vol. XXII. Nos. 3-5. 8vo.
         London 1890.                                         The Association.
      Entomological Society.       Transactions. 1890.       Parts 2-3. 8vo.
         London.                                                  The Society.
      Geological Society.      List of Fellows, 1890. 8vo. [London].
                                                                  The Society.
      Institution of Civil Engineers. Minutes of Proceedings.             Vols.
         C-CII. 8vo. London 1890.                             The Institution.
      Institution of Mechanical Engineers.               Proceedings.     1890.
         Nos. 1-2. 8vo. London.                                The Institution.

448                                Presents.                          [Nov. 20,
Transactions (continued).
     Institution of Naval Architects.          Transactions. Vol. XXXI.
        4to. London 1890.                                      The Institution.
     Iron and Steel Institute. Jonrnal. 1890. No. 1. 8vo. London.
                                                                 The Institute.
     Laboratory Club.         Transactions. Vol. III.         Nos. 6-7.      8vo.
        London 1890.                                                  The Club.
     Mineralogical Society.         Mineralogical Magazine and Journal.
        Vol.   IX    No. 42. 8vo. London 1890.                     The Society.
     Photographic Society of Great Britain.             Journal and Transac
        tions.   Vol. XIV. No. 9. 8vo. London 1890.                The Society.
     Royal Astronomical Society.           Memoirs. Vol. XLIX.           Part 2.
        4to. London 1890.                                          The Society.
     Royal College of Surgeons.          Calendar.     1890.   8vo. London.
                                                                   The College.
     Society of Antiquaries.        Proceedings.     Vol. XIII. No. 1. 8vo.
        London 1890.                                               The Society.
     Society of      Biblical   Archaeology.       Proceedings.       Vol. XII.
        Part 8. 8vo. London 1890.                                  The Society.
  Naples: — Societa di Naturalisti.          Bollettino.     Ser. 1.    Vol. III.
        Fasc. 2. Vol. IV.       Fasc. 2. 8vo. Napoli 1889-90.
                                                                   The Society.
      Societa Italiana delle Scienze.        Memorie. Ser. 3. Tomo VII.
        4to. Napoli 1 890.                                         The Society.
                              —
   Newcastle-upon-Tyne : North of England Institute of Mining
        and Mechanical Engineers.            Report of the French Com
        mission on the Use of Explosives in Mines.               8vo. Newcastle
        1890.                                                     The Institute.
           —
   Paris: ficole Normale Superieure.           Annales. 1890.         Nos. 4-10.
         4to. Paris.                                                 The School.
      Society Francaise de Physique.           Seances.       1889, Decembre.
         1890, Janvier— Avril.       8vo. Paris.                   The Society.
      Societe Philomathique.         Bulletin.    Ser.   8.  Tome    II. No. 1.
         8vo. Paris 1890.                                          The Society.
   Philadelphia   : — Academy      of    Natural     Sciences.     Proceedings.
         1890.   Part I. 8vo. Philadelphia.                      The Academy.
      American Philosophical Society.            Proceedings.     Vol. XXVII.
         No. 131. Vol. XXVIII.            No. 132-133.       8vo. Philadelphia
         1889-90; Transactions.          Vol. XVI.        Part 3.     4to. Phil-
         adelphia 1890.                                             The Society.
      Wagner Free Institute of Science. Transactions.            Vol. III. 8vo.
         Philadelphia 1890.                                       The Institute.
          —
   Pisa: Societa Toscana di Scienze Naturali.                 Processi Verbali.
         Vol. VII.       8vo. [Pisa] 1890.                         The Society.
            —
   Rome : Accademia Pontificia de' Nuovi Lincei.                   Atti.    Anno

1890.]                           Presents.                              449
Transactions   (continued).
       XLII.      Sessione 4-7.     Anno    XLIII.    Sessione   1-2.   4to.
       Soma 18S9-90.                                        The Academy.
     Reale Accadernia    dei Lincei. Atti.    Ser. 4. Memorie Sci. Fis.
       Mat. e Nat. Vol. V. 4to. Soma 1888.                  The Academy.
     R. Comitate- Geologico d'ltalia. Bollettino. 1890. Nos. 3-4.
       8vo. Iioma.                                          The Comitate
  St. Petersburg: — Academie Imperiale des Sciences.             Memoires.
       Tome    XXXVII.      Nos. 6-8.    4to. St.-Petersbourg 1890.
                                                            The Academy.
     Comite Geologique.      Bulletin.     Tome VIII.     Nos. 6-8. 8vo.
       [St.-Petersbourg] 1889-90 ; Memoires.       Vol. IX. No. 1. Vol.
       XI. No. 1. 4to. St.-Petersbourg 1890.                   The Comite.
  San Francisco : — California Academy of Sciences.           Proceedings.
       Vol. II. 8vo. San Francisco 1890.                     The Academy.
  Upsala : — Universitet.    Arsskrif t.   1889.   8vo. Upsala.
                                                           The University.
  Washington : — National Academy of Sciences. Memoirs. Vol. IV.
       Part 2. 4to. Washington 1889.                        The Academy.
     Smithsonian Institution. . Smithsonian Contributions to Know
       ledge. Vol. XXVI.        4to. Washington 1890.
                                                           The Institution.
Observations   and Reports.
  Calcutta: — Indian Museum.          Indian Museum Notes.          Vol. I.
       No. 3. 8vo. Calcutta 1890.                            The Tiustees.
     Meteorological Department, Government of India.            Report on
       the Meteorology of India in 1888.             4to. Calcutta 1890 ;
       Report on the Administration of the Meteorological Depart
       ment in 1888-89.     4to. [Calcutta'] ; Cyclone Memoirs.      Part 2.
       8vo. Calcutta 1890; Handbook of Cyclonic Storms in the
       Bay of Bengal. 8vo. Calcutta 1890.                The Department.
     Revenue and Agricultural Department.           Memorandum on the
       Snowfall in the Mountain Districts of Northern India and
        Afghanistan, &c. Folio. Simla 1890.               The Department
  Chemnitz : — Konigl. Sachsisches Meteorologisches Institut. Bericht.
       1888.    4to. Chemnitz 1890.                         The Institute.
              —
  Coimbra : Observatorio Meteorologico e Magnetico.           Observaeoes
       Meteorologicas, 1889.     Folio. Coimbra 1890.
                                                         The Observatory.
  Columbus : — Ohio Meteorological Bureau.           Report. 1889. 8vo.
       Columbus 1890.                                         The Bureau
  Cordova: — Oticina Meteorologica Argentina. Anales.           Tomo Vll.
       4to. Buenos Aires 1889.                                  The Office
VOL.  XLVIII.                                                    2 I

4.?0                                 Presents.                           [Nov. 20,
Observations,     &c. (continued).
   Dorpat : — Sternwarfce.       Meteorologische     Beobachtungen.       1881-83.
        8vo. [Dorpat'].                                         The Observatory.
   Edinburgh : — Royal   '   Observatory.     Circulars.    Nos.    7-9 [Sheets].
        1890.                                                   The Observatory.
   Greenwich    : — Royal Observatory.        Rates of Chronometers on Trial
        for Purchase by the Board of Admiralty.                    4to.    [London
        1890] ; Rates of Deck Watches on Trial.                    4to.    [London
        1890].                                                  The Observatory.
   Guatemala: —-Direccion General de Estadistica. Informe. 1890.
        8vo. Guatemala.                                  The Director- Gen3ral.
   India : — Archaeological Survey of India. South Indian Inscriptions,
        Tamil and Sanskrit. Vol. I. 4to. Madras 1890.
                                                                      The Survey.
      Geological Survey of India.          Memoirs.      Vol. XXIV. Part 2.
        8vo.    Calcutta    1890; Records.       Vol.  XXIII.       Part   3.    8vo.
        Calcutta 1890.                                                The Survey.
   Lisbon: — Observatorio do Infante D. Luiz. Annaes.                   Vol. XXV.
        Folio. Lisboa 1890.                                     The Observatory.
   London : — Army Medical Department.                  Report.      1888.       8vo.
        London 1890.                                            The Department.
   Mexico : — Observatorio Meteorologioo-Magnetico Central. Boletin
        Mensual.       Tomo II. Num. 7-12.          Folio. [Mexico'] 1889.
                                                                The Observatory.
   Trieste : — Osservatorio     Marittirno.    Rapporto Annuale. 1887. 4to.
        Trieste 1890.                                           The Observatory.
   Upsala — Observatoire
            :                    Meteorologique     de l'Universite.       Bulletin
        Mensuel.       Vol. XXI.     4to.   Ujisai 1889-90.
                                                                The Observatory.
Basset (A. B.),     F.R.S.    An Elementary Treatise on Hydrodynamics
      aud Sound.       8vo.   Cambridge 1890.                        The Author.
Braithwaite (R.)        The British Moss-Flora.        Part  13.    8vo.    London
      1890.                                                          The Author.
Cauchy (A.)        ffiuvres Completes.      Ser. 2.    Tomes     VII-VIII.       4to.
      Paris 1889-90.                            Academie    des Sciences,      Paris.
Cayley (A.), F.R.S.         Collected Mathematical Papers.          Vol. 111. 4to.
      Cambridge 1890.                                         -      The Author.
Eglestou (T.)       The    Metallurgy   of Silver,  Gold,  and    Mercury     in the
      United States. Vol. II. 8vo.          New    York  1890.       The Author.
Evans (J.), Treas. R.S. The Coins of the Ancient Britons. Supple
      ment.   8vo. London 1890.                                      The Author.
Fatio (V.)     Faune des Vertebres de la Snisse.           Vols. I,   II- V. 8vo.
      Geneve  1869-1890.            The  Author,   through   Dr.  Marcet,    F.R.S.

1890.]                             Presents.                           451
Fourier.    CEavres.   Tome    II.   4to.  Paris 1890.
                                                       M. Gaston Darboux.
Galilei   (Galileo)     Opere.      Edizione  Nazionale.     Vol.  I.  4to.
     Firenze 1890.
                    The Italian Government, through the Foreign Office.
Gaudry (A.)      Les Enchainements dn Monde Animal dans lea Temps
     Geologiques.     Fossiles Secondaires.     8vo.   Paris 1890.
                                                               The Author.
Godwin-Austen (H. H.), F.R.S.           Land and Freshwater Mollusca of
     India. Parts 1-6. Text and Plates. 8vo and 4to. London 1882-88.
                                                          The India Office.
King (G.), F.R.S. Annals of the Royal Botanic Garden, Calcutta.
     Vol. II. Folio. Calcutta 1889; The Species of Ficus of the
     Indo-Malayan and Chinese Countries.           Appendix. Folio. Cal
     cutta 1889.                                               The Author.
Maxwell (J. Clerk),      F.R.S.     ScientiBc Papers.    Edited by W. D.
     Niven, F.R.S. Two vols. 4to. Cambridge 1890.
                                             University Press, Cambridge.
Startin (J.) A Pharmacopoeia for Diseases of the Skin. 12mo.
     London 1890.                                              The Author.
Three bronze Medals, two bearing bust of Linuasus, and one com
     memorative of Joseph Hume, F.R.S.
                                                 Mr.  J. Evans, Treas. R.S.
                                                               2 i  -2

452      Mr. F. E. Beddard.      On the Homology between     [Nov. 27,
                           November 27, 1890.
Mr. JOHN EVANS, D.C.L., Treasurer and Vice-President, in the
                                  Chair.
  In   pursuance of the Statutes, notice of the ensuing Anniversary
Meeting was given from the Chair, and the list of Officers and Council
nominated for election was read as follows : —
  President. — Sir William Thomson, D.C.L., LL.D.
  Treasurer. — John Evans,   D.C.L., LL.D.
                   Professor Michael Foster, M.A., M.D.
                   The Lord Rayleigh, M.A., D.C.L.
  Foreign Secretary. — Archibald Geikie,  LL.D.
   Other Members of the Council. — Professor William Edward Ajrton ;
William Henry Mahoney Christie, M.A. ; Professor W. Boyd Dawkins,
M.A. ; James Whitbread Lee Glaisher, D.Sc. ; Hugo Miiller, Ph.D. ;
Professor Alfred Newton, M.A. ; Sir William Roberts, M.D. ; William
Chandler Roberts- Austen, F.C.S. ; Professor Edward Albert Schafer,
M.R.C.S. ; Sir George Gabriel Stokes, Bart., M.A. ; Lieut. -General
Richard Strachey, R.E. ; Professor Joseph John Thomson, MA.;
Professor Thomas Edwurd Thorpe, B.Sc. ; Sir William Turner, M.D. ;
Professor Sydney Howard Vines, M.A. ; General James Thomas
Walker, C.B.
   The Presents received were laid on the table, and thanks ordered for
them.
  The following Papers were read : —
I. " On the Homology between Genital Ducts and Nepbridia
      in the Oligochajta."        By Frank E. Beddard, M.A.,
      Prosector of the Zoological Society.         Communicated by
      Professor E.    Ray    Lankestkr, M.A., LL.D., F.R.S. Re
      ceived October 10, 1890.
   It  is usually stated in text books that the genital ducts of the
Oligochaeta are homologous with nephridia; but nevertheless the
question is one which has not yet been satisfactorily settled, for the

1890.]      Genital Ducts and Nepliridia in               the  Oligocholia.        453
total independence           of the two structures in Lumbrictis and those
aquatic Oligochffita of which the development is known is a difficulty
in the way of accepting this view. Claparedo, who first clearly
formulated the arguments in favour of regarding the genital ducts
as slightly modified nephridia, made a mistake in stating that the
genital segments of the aquatic Oligocheeta contain no nephridia ;
this error was pointed out by Vejdovsky* who discovered that the
genital segments are originally furnished with nephridia, which
atrophy on the ripening of the sexual products and the appearance of
their ducts. Professor Lankester pointed out that in Lnmbricusf the
genital ducts and the nephridia have a close relation to one
or other of the two pairs of setai with which each segment is pro
vided.    He suggested that the genital ducts might represent the only
 portion left of a ventrally opening series of nephridia. M. Perrier's
 memorable investigations! into the structure of exotic Earthworms
 tended at first to confirm this theory.                He discovered that in one
 Earthworm (Plutellus) the nephridia alternated in position from
 segment to segment, thus suggesting that the supposed original two
 sets of nephridia had both partly persisted and partly disappeared.
 In other forms the nephridia were found to be related to the ventral
 8Ptoe, and the genital apertures to the dorsal set®, the exact converse
 of the condition which occurs in Lumbricus.                      Later investigation,
 however, which resulted in the discovery that the genital apertures
 and nephridiopores may coincide at the same seta, led M. Perrier to
 abandon the hypothesis.             My own discovery, first published in the
 Proceedings    of      this  Society, § that in Acantliodrilus multiporus there
 are more    than a single pair of nephridiopores                    to each segment,
 removed the difficulties urged by Perrier.                And as this discovery has
 been extended by myself and by others to many species and genera
 of Earthworms, there can be no longer any intrinsic improbability in
 the hypothesis.         The whole subject has been lately reviewed by Eisig
 in his treatise upon the Anatomy and Physiology of the Capitellidae,
 which forms one of the series of monographs issued by the Zoological
 Station at Naples.           Dr. Eisig decides that the genital ducts are
 probably modified nephridia in the Oligochseta ; in the Capitellidaa
 they certainly are ; bnt, as the Uapitellidre do not appear to me to be
 so nearly related to the Oligochwta as Dr. Eisig considers,                  I should
 regard this argument as only having the force that an argument
 from analogy can have.              Since the appearance of Dr. Eisig's work,
 an important paper by Dr. Stolc|| dealing with the generative organs
                *   '
                        System u. Morph. d. Oligoch&ten,' Prag, 18*1.
                    '
                t Quart. Journ. Microse. Sci.,' 1864-3.
                % 'Nouv.
                               Arch, du Museum,' vol. 8 (1872).
                      '
                 {,      Roy. Soe. Proc.,' vol. 38, 1885, p. 45'J.
                     '
                 11 Boiim. Gesell. Sitzber.,' 1889.

  454      Genital Ducts and Nephridia in       the Oligocholia.    [Nov. 27,
  of Molosoma has     come into my hands   ; it appears that in this Annelid
  there are no special sperm ducts, but that the function of such ducts
  is performed     by several pairs of nephridia.       This fact, however,
  interesting though it is, is not a proof of the homology between sperm
 ducts and nephridia in other types.
     I have lately had the opportunity of studying the development of
 the New Zealand species Acanthodrilus           multiporus.     The sum of
 money    which   the  Government   Grant  Committee    of the  Royal Society
 were good enough to place at my disposal has enabled me to defray
 the expenses of this investigation.
     In the young embryos of this worm each segment is furnished with
 a pair of nephridia, each opening by a ciliated funnel into the segment
 in front of that which carries the dorsa'.ly placed external pore. In
 later stages the funnels degenerate, and that portion of the tube
which immediately follows the funnel becomes solid, losing its lumen ;
at the same time the nephridium branches, and communicates with
the exterior by numerous pores. At a comparatively early stage, four
pairs of gonads are developed in segments X —        XIII   ; each of these is
situated   on the posterior wall of its segment, as in Acanthodrilus
annectem, and not on the anterior wall, as in the majority of Earth
worms.      When the gonads first appear, the nephridial funnels, with
which they are in close contact, are still ciliated, and their lumen is
prolonged into the nephridium for a short distance.            Later the cilia
are lost, and the funnels increase greatly in size, while those of
neighbouring segments — in fact, all the remaining fnnnels — remain
stationary for a time, and then become more and more degenerate.
The large funnels of the genital segments become the funnels of the
vasa defereutia and oviducts ; it will be observed that the number of
ovaries and oviducal funnels (two pairs) at first corresponds to that
of the -testes and sperm duct funnels ; subsequently the gonads and
commencing oviducts of segment XII atrophy. Each of these large
funnels is continued into a solid rod which passes back through tho
septum, and then becomes continuous with a coiled tuft of tubules, in
which there is an evident lumen, and which is a part of the
nephridium of its segment. In the segments in front of and behind
the genital segments, the rudimentary funnels communicate in the
same way with a solid rod of cells which runs straight for a short
distance and then becomes coiled and twisted upon itself and pro
vided with a distinct lumen.       In fact, apart from the relative size of
the funnels and the presence of the gonads, it would be impossible to
state from which segment a given section through the terminal
portion of a nephridium had been taken.           In a later stage the large
funnels of the genital segments become ciliated ; but this ciliation
takes place before there is any marked change iu the tube which is
connected with the funnel.

 1890.]        The Patterns in Thumb and Finger Maries.                  455
    In the young worm which has just escaped from the cocoon, the
funnels are ciliated, and they are each of them connected by a short
tube, in which a lumen has been developed, but which ends blindly in
close proximity to a coil of nephridia.            No trace of any nephridial
 tube other than the sperm duct or oviduct could be observed, whereas,
 in the preceding and succeeding segments the rudimentary nephridial
 funnel and a straight tube leading from it direct to the body wall
 were perfectly plain.      Dr. Bergh* has figured, in his account of the
 development    of the     generative organs of Lumbricus, a nephridial
 funnel in close contact with the funnol of the genital duct. It may
 be suggested that a corresponding funnel has been overlooked in the
 embryo Acanthodrilus ; the continuity of a structure, identical (at
 first) with the nephridia of the segments in front and behind, with
 the genital funnels, seems to show that a search for an additional
 nephridial funnel would be fruitless.
    I can only explain these facts by the supposition that in Acantho
 drilus multiporus the genital funnels and a portion at least of the ducts
 are formed out of nephridia.       This mode of development is a confirma
 tion, to mc unexpected, of Balfour's snggestionf that in the Oligochoeta
 the nephridium is broken up into a genital and an excretory portion.
    In tho comparison of the facts, briefly described here, with the
 apparently independent origin of the generative ducts in other
 Oligochasta, it must be borne in mind that in Acanthodrilus the segre
gation of the nephridium into several almost detached tracts com
 municating with the exterior by their own ducts precedes the
formation of the genital ducts.
II.   " The Patterns in Thumb and Finger Marks : on their
       Arrangement into naturally distinct Classes, the Perma
       nence of the Papillary Ridges that make them, and the
       Resemblance of their Classes to ordinary Genera."                 By
       FRANCIS   Galton, F.R.S.         Received November          1890.
                                   (Abstract.)
    The memoir describes the results of a recent inquiry into the
patterns formed by the papillary ridges upon the bulbs of the thumbs
and fingers of different persons.       The points especially dwelt upon in
it are   the natural   classification   of   the patterns, their permanence
throughout life, nnd the apt confirmation they afford of the opinion
that the genera of plants and animals may be isolated from one
another otherwise than through the influence of natural selection.
                     • ' Zcitschr. Wiss. Zool.,' 1886.
                         '
                     +     Compar. Eiubryol.,' vol 2, p. G17.

456           The Patterns in Thumb and Finger Marks.             [Nov. 27,
   The origin of the patterns was shown to be due to the existence of
the nail, which interfered with the horizontal coarse of the papillary
ridges, and caused those near the tip to run in arches, leaving an
interspace between them and the horizontal ridges below.                This
interspace was filled with various scrolls which formed the patterns.
The points or point at which the ridires diverged to enclose the inter
space were cardinal points in the classification.      It was shown that
there were in all only nine possible ways in which the main features
of the inclosure of the interspace could bo effected.        In addition to
the 9 classes there was a primary     form, occurring in   about 3 per cent,
of all the cases, in which the interspace was not clearly marked, and
from this primary form all the other patterns were evolved. The
forms of the patterns were easily traced in individual cases by follow
ing the two pair of divergent ridges, or the one pair if there was only
one pair, to their terminations, pursuing the innermost branch when
ever the ridge bifurcated, and continuing on an adjacent ridge when
ever the one that was being followed happened to come to an end.
25 of the principal patterns were submitted, and a few varieties
of some of them, making a total of 40.      They are by no means equally
frequent.
   The data as to the permanence of the patterns         and of the ridges
that compose them were supplied to the author by       Sir W. J. Herschel,
 who, when in the Indian Civil Service, introduced in his district the
practice of impressing finger marks as a check against personation.
 Impressions made by one or two fingers of 4 adults about 30 years
 ago, and of a boy 9 years ago, are compared with their present,
 impressions. There are eight pairs of impressions altogether, and it is
 shown that out of a total of 296 definite points of comparison
 which they afford, namely the places where ridges cease, not one failed
to exist in both impressions of the same set.       In making this com
parison,  no regard  was paid  to  the  manner in which   the several ridges
appear to come to an end, whether abruptly or by junction with
another ridge.     The reas >n was partly, because the neck where junc
tion takes place is often low and may fail to leave a mark in one of
the impressions.
   Lastly, the various patterns were shown to be central typical forms
from which individual varieties departed to various degrees with a
diminishing freqnency in each more distant degree, whose rate was in
fair accordance with the theoretical law of frequency of error. Con
sequently, wide departures        were extremely rare, and the several
patterns corresponded to the centres of isolated groups, whose isola
tion was not absolutely complete, nor was it due to any rounding off
by defined boundaries, but to the great rarity of transitional cases.
This condition was brought about by internal causes only, without
the least help from natural selection, whether sexual or other.          The

 1890.]     Transplantation and Growth    of Mammalian    Ova.       457
distribution of individual varieties of the same patterns about their
respective typical centres was precisely analogous in its form, say, to
that of the Shrimps about theirs, as described in a recent memoir by
Mr. Weldon (' Koy. Soc. Proc.,' No. 291, p. 445). It was argued from
this, that natural selection has no monopoly of influence either in
creating genera or in maintaining their purity.
III. "   Preliminary Note on the Transplantation and Growth of
       Mammalian Ova within a Uterine Foster-Mother."                 By
       Walter IIeape,     M.A., Balfour Student at the University of
       Cambridge.       Communicated      by Professor M. FOSTER,
       Sec. R.S. Received November 12, 18(J0.
    In this preliminary note I wish merely to record an experiment by
which    it is shown that it is possible to make use of the uterus of
one variety of rabbit as a medium for the growth and complete foetal
development of fertilised ova of another variety of rabbit.
    Briefly, the experiment made was as follows : — On the 27th April,
1890, two ova were obtained from an Angora doe rabbit which had
been   fertilised by an Angora buck thirty-two    hours previously ; the
ova were undergoing segmentation, being divided into four segments.
   These ova were immediately transferred into the upper end of the
fallopian tube of a Belgian hare doe rabbit which had been fertilised
three hours before by a bnek of the same breed as herself.
   It may be well to mention here,      I bought this Belgian hare doe
some three months before ; the man from whom     I bought her bred her,
and guaranteed her to be a virgin doe of about seven months old.
During the time I had her, until the 27th April, she had never been
covered by a buck of any breed, being kept always isolated from the
various bucks in my rabbitry.
   In due course this Belgian hare doe gave birth to six young — four
of these resembled herself and her mate, while two of them were
undoubted      Angoras. The Angora yonng were characterised by the
possession of the long silky hair peculiar to the breed, and were true
albinoes, like their Angora parents.
   As a proof of their parentage, I would add they inherit a habit
which nearly all the Angoras I have kept affect — it was marked in
their Angora mother and especially pronounced in their father- — a
habit of slowly swaying their head from side to side as they look at
yon.    I mention this fact because I have never observed the same
habit in any breed of rabbits except Angora.
                                                          I
   It should be remembered also as a further proof that put into the
Belgian hare doe two fertilised ova from the Angora doe, and that two
Angora young were borne by the former.

458      Mr. V. H. Veley.     The Conditions of Chemical      [Nov. 27
   Three of the Belgian hare young unfortunately died during the
months of September      and October, from some undetermined cause
(alimentary ?) ; one of the Belgian hare young — a doe — and the two
Angoras — both bucks — survive, and appear fairly strong and hearty.
   At the date on which I am writing, 7th November, 1890, the sur
viving young ones are twenty-three weeks old, having been born on
the 2yth May, 1890.
   All the young at "the time of their birth suffered more or less from
some skin disease, which, however, disappeared under treatment, and
one of the Angora young, who suffered the most from the skin disease,
has been remarkably scantily supplied with hair, but this defect is
becoming less and less obvious.
   Both the Angora young when born were bigger and stronger than
any of the other young, and they have all along retained their
supremacy in this direction.
   I can see no sign  in the Angora young of any Belgian hare strain,
and the Belgian hare young have not shown any likeness to their
foster-brothers.    The surviving Belgian hare inherits a white left
fore-foot from her father, and one of those which died was similarly
marked.
   The peculiarities of the Angora young have been already noted.
   The experiment described above wns undertaken to determine intho
first place what effect, if any, a uterine foster-mother would have
upon her foster-children, and whether or not the presence and develop
ment of foreign ova in the uterus of a mother would affect the offspring
of that mother born at the same time.
   So far as this single case goes, the evidence is negative.
   Before long,  I propose to continue   my experiments and to extend
them.
   In concluding this note, I would record my great indebtedness to
Mr. Samuel Buckley, M.D. (Lond.), F.R.C.S. (Eng.), of Manchester,
who has most kiudly given me his valuable assistance in the necessary
operative portion of the experiment.
IV. " The Conditions of Chemical Change between Nitric Acid
      and certain Metals."        By V. H. Veley, M.A., the Uni
      versity Museum, Oxford. Communicated                by Professor
      Odling, F.B.S. Received October 23, 1890.
                               (Abstract.)
   This paper is in continuation of a preliminary communication on
the same subject; the main points contained in it are as follows : —
   I, The metals copper, mercury, and bismuth do not dissolve in

  1890.]       Change between   Nitric Acid and certain Metals.          459
 nitric acid of about      30 per cent, concentration  (the acid commonly
 employed for the preparation of nitric oxide gas) and heated to a
 temperature of 30° C, provided that nitrous acid is neither present
 initially nor formed subsequently.       To prevent this, it is necessary in
 the cases of -copper and bismuth to add a small quantity of some
 oxidising substance, such     as hydrogen peroxide or potassium chlorate,
 or, as less efficacious, potassium permanganate, or to pass a current of
 air or, lastly, such a substance as urea, which destroys the nitrous
 acid by its interaction.
    II. If the conditions are such that these metals dissolve, then the
amount of metal dissolved and the amount of nitrous acid present are
concomitant variables, provided that the nitric acid is in considerable
excess.     Change    of conditions, such as concentration of acid and
 variation   of  temperature, which increase the former increase also the
latter.
    III. If   the conditions are such that these metals dissolve, it would
 appear that the metallic nitrite is at first formed, together with nitric
oxide; the former is decomposed by the excess of nitric acid to
liberate    nitrous acid, while the latter reduces the nitric acid to form
a  further quantity of nitrous acid.
    Eventually the net result is the product of two reverse chemical
changes represented by the equations       —
                     (i.) 2NO + HNO;i + H„0 = 3HNO,,
                    (ii.) 3HN03 = 2NO + HN03 + H3d.
    The nitrous acid is thus destroyed as fast as it is generated.
    IV. If the conditions are such that metals dissolve in nitric acid,
then nitrous acid is invariably the initial product of reduction.
    V. The metals copper, mercury, and bismuth dissolve very readily
in  a 1  per cent, solution of nitrous acid ; under these conditions nitric
acid present in slight excess interferes with, rather than promotes, the
chemical change.        This result is probably due to the greater stability
of nitrous acid in the presence of nitric acid.
   VI. Hydrogen gas reduces nitric to nitrous acid in presence of
cupric or lead nitrate ; it also converts mercuric into mercurous
nitrate, but does not produce any chauge in solutions of bismuth and
zinc nitrates dissolved iu nitric acid.

460             Variation*  of Electromotive Force of Cells.     [Nov.    27,
V. " The Variations of Electromotive Force of Cells consisting
      of certain Metals, Platinum, and Nitric Acid."              By G. J.
      Burch, B.A., and V. H. Velet, M.A., the University-
      Museum, Oxford. Communicated by Professor Odlixg,
      F.R.S.      Received October 23, 1890.
                                  (Abstract.)
   The description of the apparatus, the capillary electrometer, and
the method of working are given fully in the paper. The following
conclusions are drawn from the results of the experiments : —
   I. When the metals copper, silver, bismuth, and mercury are intro
duced into purified nitric acid of different degrees of concentration,
and a couple made with platinum, the electromotive force of such a
cell increases considerably until it reaches a constant and (in most
cases) a maximum value.          The rise of E.M.F. is attributed to the
production   of  nitrous acid by the decomposition of the nitric acid, and
the final value is considered to be due to the former acid only, while
the initial value is due for the most part to the latter acid, though it
is affected to a remarkable        degree by the amount of impurity of
nitrous acid, either initially present or produced by minute and
unavoidable uncleanliness of the metallic strip and the containing
vessel.
   II. If nitrous acid has   been  previously added to the nitric acid, then
the maximum       E.M.F. is reached at once.
   III. If the conditions, namely, increase of temperature, of impurity,
and of concentration of acid, are such as would favour a more rapid
solution of the metal, and consequently a more rapid production of
nitrous acid, then the rise of E.M.F. is concomitantly more rapid.
   IV. Conversely, if the conditions are unfavourable to the produc
tion of nitrous acid, the rise of E.M.F. is less rapid.
   V.  If any substance, such as urea, be added which would tend to
destroy the nitrous acid as fast as it may be formed, then the rise of
E M.F. is extremely slow, being dependent upon the number of mole
cular impac s of the nitrous acid upon the surface of the metal.
   Thus the results obtained by the electrometer and by the chemical
balance are in every way confirmatory the one of the other.
   The authors propose to conduct further investigations on cells con
taining other acids, to determine whether the action of them upon
metals is conditioned by the presence of their products of electrolysis.

1890.]                             Presents.                               461
                        Presents, November 27, 1890.
Transactions.
   Cracow   : — Academie   des Sciences.   Bulletin International. Comptes
        Rendus    des Seances.   Annee 1890,   Mai — Juillet.    8vo. Cracovie.
                                                                The Academy.
          —
   Delft: Ecole Polytechnique. Annales. Tome V. Livr. 3-4. 4to.
        Leide 1890.                                                The School.
                 —
   Devonshire : Devonshire Association.           Report and Transactions.
        Vol. XXII. 8vo. Plymouth 1890 ; The Devonshire Domesday.
        Part 7. 8vo. Plymouth 1890.                           The Association
   Edinburgh : — Geological Society. Transactions.           Vol. VI. Part 1.
                                                           -
        8vo. Edinburgh 1890.                                      The Society.
     Royal Society.      Proceedings.    Vol. XVI. (Pp. 385-448.) Vol.
        XVII. (Pp. 1-128.) 8vo. Edinburgh 1889-90. The Society.
   Falmouth : — Royai Cornwall Polytechnic Society.'           Annual Report.
        1889.    8vo. Falmouth [1890].                            The Society.
                          —
   Frankfort-on-Main : Senckenbergische            Naturforschende Gesell-
        schaft.    Bericht.   1890.    8vo. Frankfurt.            The Society.
   Gloucester:   —  Cotteswold    Naturalists'  Field   Club.     Proceedings.
        Vol. IX. Part 4. Vol. X. Part 1. 8vo. Gloucester [1890],
                                                                     The Club.
   Helsingfors : — Society de Geographie de Finlande. Bulletin. Nos.
        2-3.     8vo. Helsingfors    1890; Statuts de la Societe.          8vo.
        [Sheet.] Helsingfors 1890.                                The Society.
   Hobart: — Royal Society of Tasmania.            Papers and Proceedino-s.
        1889. 8vo. Tasmania 1890.                                 The Society.
   London : — Anthropological Institute. Journal. Vol. XIX. No. 4.
        8vo. London 1890.                                        The Institute.
      Odontological Society of Great Britain.            Transactions.     Vol.
        XXII. IS os. 7-8. 8vo. London 1890.                       The Society.
      Photographic Society of Great Britain. Journal and Transac
        tions.    Vol. XV. No. 1. 8vo. London 1890.               The Society.
      Quekett Microscopical Club. Journal.            Ser. 2. Vol. IV. No.
        27. 8vo. London 1890.                                        The Club.
      Royal Agricultural Society      of England. Journal. Ser. 3. Vol. I.
        Parts 2-3. 8vo. London 1890 ; General Index, 1865-89.              8vo.
        London 1890.                                              The Society.
      Royal Horticultural Society. Journal. Vol. XII. Part 2. 8vo.
        London 1890.                                              The Society.
      Royal Meteorological Society. The Meteorological Record. Vol.
        IX. Nos. 36-37. 8vo. London [1890].                       The Society
      Royal Microscopical Society.        Journal. 1890.         Part 3. 8vo.
        London.                                                   The Society.

402                                 Present*.                           [Nov. 27.
Transactions     (continued).
      Royal Statistical Society."     Journal.    Vol.  LIII.   Parts 2-3. 8vo.
          London 1890.                                               The Society.
      Roval United Service Institution.             Journal.      Vol. XXXIV.
          No.  153.   8vo. London 1890.                          The Institution.
      St. Bartholomew's       Hospital.    Statistical Tables of the Patients
          under Treatment during 1889.         8vo. London 1890.
                                                                   The Hospital.
      University College.       Calendar.    1890-91.      8vo. London 1890.
                                                                     The College.
      Victoria Institute. Journal of the Transactions. Vol. XXIV.
          Nos. 93-94.    8vo. London [1890].                       The Institute.
      Zoological Society.      Proceedings. 1890.        Part I. 8vo. London.
                                                                     The Society.
                    —
  Manchester: Geological Society.*           Transactions. Vol. XX. Parts
          18-21.                                                     The Society.
      Literary and Philosophical Society.          Memoirs and Proceedings.
          8vo. Manchester 1890.                                      The Society.
      Owens College. Studies from the Biological Laboratories. Vol.11.
         8vo. Manchester 1890.                                       The College.
                  —
  Melbourne : Royal Society           of  Victoria.      Transactions.      Vol. I.
         Part 2. 4to. Melbourne 1889.                                The Society.
  Moscow : — Sociele Imperiale des Naturalistes.               Bulletin.     1889.
         No. 4. 1890.      No. 1. 8vo. Moscou 1890.                 The Society.
  Munich : — Konigl.       Bayerische      Akademie       der   Wissenschaften.
         Abhandlnngen (Histor. Classe).            Bd. XIX. Abth. 1. 4to.
         Miinchen 1889 ; Abhandlungen (Mathem.-Phys. Classe).                  Bd.
         XVII.       Abth. 1.     4to. Miinchen      1889;     Sitzungsberichte
         (Philos.-Philol. Classe)   1890.    Heft  2- i.   8vo.   Miinchen 1890.
                                                                  The Academy.
  Newcastle-upon-Tyne : — North of England Institute of Mining and
        Mechanical Engineers. Report of the French Commission on
         the Use of Explosives in the Presence of Fire- Damp in Mines.
         Part 2. 8vo. Newcastle 1890.                      t      The Institute.
            —
  Tokio : Imperial University.            Calendar.      1889-90.      8vo. Tokyo
         1889.                                                  The University.
                                                                         Vol. III.
   '
     Imperial University.        College of Science.        Journal.
        Part 4. 4to. Tokyo 1 890.                               The University.
  Toulouse : — Faculty des Sciences. Annales. Tome IV. 4to. Paris
        1890.                                                       Tha Faculty.
             —
  Trieste : Museo       Civico   di  Storia  Naturale.      Atti.    Tomo VIII.
        8vo. Trieste 1890.                                         The Museum.
  Turin: — Accademia delle Scienze. Atti. Vol. XXV. Disp. 11-12.
        8vo. Torino 1890    ;  Osservazioni   Meteorologiche.         18s9.   8vo.
        Torino 1890.                                              The Academy.

1890.]                            Presents.
Beard (J.)      The Inter- Relationships of the Ichthyopmda.              8vo.
     Jena 1890.                                                  The Author.
Blanchard (E.) Les Preuves de la Dislocation de l'Extremite Sud-
     Est du Continent Asiatique pendant l'Age moderne de la Terre.
     4to. Paris 1890.                                           The Author.
Cross (C. R.)     On the Extent of the Excursion of the Electrodes of
     a Microphone Transmitter.        8vo. [Boston] 1890.        The Author.
Distant (W. L.) A Monograph of Oriental Cicadidoe. Part 3. 4to.
     London 1890.                                 Indian Museum, Calcutta.
Dobson (G. E.), F.R.S.       A Monograph of the Insectivora, Systematic
     and Anatomical.      Part 3. Fasc. 1. 4to. London 1890.
                                                                 The Anthor.
Foster (M.),   Sec. R.S.   A   Text  Book  of  Physiology.     Fifth Edition.
     Part 3. 8vo. London 1890.                                   The Author.
Francis (E. B.)     Customary Law of the Tahsils of Moga, Zira, and
      Ferozepore.   8vo. Lahore 1890.                       The India Office.
Giglioli (E. H.)       Primo Resoconto dei Risultati della Inchiesta
      Ornitologica in Italia. Parte 2. Avifaune Locali. 8vo. Firenze
      1890.                                                    Prof. Giglioli.
Helmholtz (H. von), For.           Mem.   R.S.       Uber atmosphaerische
     Bewegungen.       8vo. Berlin 1889.                         The Author.
Kops (J.)"    Flora  Batava.    Aflev. 289-290.     4to. Leiden   [1890].
                                                 The Netherlands Legation.
Limarakis (L. G.) L'fipidemie de Grippe-Influenza a Constantinople.
     8vo. Constantinople 1890.                                   The Author.
Lockyer (J. N.), F.R.S. The Meteoritic Hypothesis. 8vo. London,
      1890.                                                      The Anthor.
McCoy (F ), F.R.S.           Prodromus of the Zoology of Victoria.
      Decade 20.    8vo. Melbourne 1890.
                                             The Government of Victoria.
 Member (A.) Daniel Gabriel         Fahrenheit   (Vortra<r).   8vo. [Danzig']
      1887; Daniel Gabriel Fahrenheit.           Sein Leben und Wirken.
      8vo. Danzig 1890.                                          The Author.
Mueller (F. von), F.R.S. Second Systematic Census of Australian
      Plants. Part 1. Vasculares. Obi. 4to. Melbourne 1880.
                                              The Government of Victoria.
Ormay (A.)        Recentiora    Supplementa      Fauna) Coleopterorura      in
      Transsilvania. 8vo. Budapest 1890.                         The Author.
Rand (Rev. S. T.)         Dictionary of the Language of the Micmac
      Indians. 4to. Halifax 1888.               The Canadian Government.
Royer (Clemence)       La Constitution Moleculaire de l'Eau. 8vo. Paris
      [1890].                                                    The Author.
Riitimeyer (L.)       Uebersicht der eocanen Fauna von Egerkingen
      nobst einer Erwiederung an Prof. E. D. Cope.           8vo. Basel 1890.
                                                                 The Author.

464                        Anniversary Meeting.                    [Dec. 1,
Spencer    (J. W.) Ancient Shores, Boulder Pavements, and High-
     Level Gravel Deposits in the Region of the Great Lakes. 8vo.
      [New York] 1889.                                        The Author.
Stopes (H.)     Indications of Retrogression in Pre-historic Civiliza
     tion in the Thames.      4to. Leeds 1890.                The Author.
Vernon-Harcourt (L. F.) The Physical Conditions affecting Tidal
     Rivers ; and the Principles applicable to their Improvement.
     Folio. [Manchester] 1890. With French translation of the same.
                                                              The Author.
                             December   I, 1890.
                     ANNIVERSARY           MEETING.
      Sir G. GABRIEL STOKES, Bart., President, in the Chair.
   The Report of the Auditors of the Treasurer's Accounts, on the part
of the Society, was presented, by which it appears that the total
receipts, including balances carried from the preceding year, amounted
to £7,665 9s. 10<2. on the General Account, and £7,016 lis. 7d. on
account of Trust Funds, and that the total expenditure in the same
period amounted to £5,886 Is. lid. on the General Account, and
£4,457 7s. 8d. on account of Trust Funds, leaving a balance on the
General Account of £1,753 9s. 5d. at the bankers', and £'25 18s. 6d. in
the hands of the Treasurer, and, on account of Trust Fuiida, a balance
at the bankers' of £'2,559 3s. lid.
   The thanks of the Society were voted to the Treasurer and Auditors.
   The Secretary then read the following Lists : —
     Fellows   deceased  since the last Anniversary (Nov. 30, 1889).
                             On the Home List.
Beckles,      Samuel      Husbands,      Kane,   Sir Robert, M.R.I.A.
   F.G.S.                                Lefroy, Sir John Henry, General
Burt, T. Seymour, Maj., M.R.A.S.           R.A.
Davis, Sir John Francis, Bart.           Mylne, Robert William, F.R.S.E.
Duncan, James Matthews, M.D.             Napier of Magdala, Robert, Lord,
Ellis, Alexander John, B.A.                G.C.B.
Fischer, William Lewis Ferdinand,        Parker, William Kitchen, F.Z.S.
   M.A.                                  Perry, Rev. Stephen        Joseph,
Gull, Sir William Withey, Bart.,           F.R.A.S.
   M.D.                                  Smyth, Sir Warington Wilkinson.
Hood, Charles, F.R.A.S.                    F.G.S.
Jones, Charles Handheld, M.B.            Talbot, Christopher Rice Mansel.

 1890.]                     President's Address.                              465
                             On the Foreign List.
                        Rosenberger,    Otto August.
                                  Defaulter.
                       Twiss, Sir Travers, Knt., Q.C.
                        Change of Name and Title.
    Macdonalil, Right Hon. John Hay Athole,          to  Lord Kingsburgh.
                Fellows elected since the last Anniversary.
 Baker, Sir Benjamin, M.Inst.C.E.        Perkin, Professor William Henry,
 Bosanqnet, Robert Holford Mac-             F.C.S.
   dowall, M.A.                          Pickering, Professor Spencer Um-
Burbnry,      Samuel     Hawkesley,         freville, M.A.
   M.A.                                  Roberts, Isaac,     F.R.A.S.
 Gardiner, Walter, M.A.                  Sharp, David,      M.B.
 Kerr, John, LL.D.                       Teall, J.  J. Harris, M.A.
 Lea, Arthur Sheridan, D.Sc.             Thome, Richard Thorne, M.H.
MacMahon, Percy          Alexander,      Weldon, Walter Frank Raphael,
   Major R.A.                               M.A.
 Norman, Rev. Alfred Merle, M.A.
                            On the Foreign List.
                    Cannizzaro,   Stanislao.
                    Chauvean, Jean Baptiste Auguste.
                    Rowland, Henry A.
   The President then addressed the Society as follows          : —
   The proceedings of every Anniversary Meeting remind us of the
losses which the Society has sustained dnring the preceding year by
the deaths of several of its Fellows. Of those whom we have lost
during the past year, some were distinguished              for their scientific
labours, some were well known in the world at large.              Of several, full
obituary  notices  have  appeared   or  will  appear    in  the   '
                                                                    Proceedings,'
but it will, I think, be in accordance with tho wishes of the Fellows
that I should say a few words on the present occasion about some of
those whom we have lost.
   The Rev. Stephen J. Perry, S.J., whose name is well known in
connexion with his accurate magnetic observations, and his labours
in the domain of solar physics, was last year elected a member
of the Council. It was known that he could not attend the first
meeting, as he would be on his way to the West Indies to observe
the total solar eclipse of the 22nd of December, but we looked forward
   vol. xlviii.                                                        2 K

466                      Anniversary Meeting.                 [Dec. 1,
to having him at the meetings of oar Conncil after that was over.
In this we were doomed to disappointment, for a telegram which
arrived shortly after the day of the eclipse brought the sad intelli
gence of his death. His illness began shortly before the day of the
eclipse, but he did not suffer it to interrupt his preparations, but
worked on to the end as far as his failing strength would allow.   The
observation  of total solar eclipses was a branch of solar physics to
which he had paid special attention, and, considering the circum
stances of his death, we may regard him as a martyr to science, while
at the same time his kindly disposition ensured attachment from all
who knew him.
   Williiim Lewis Ferdinand Fischer, who was a friend of mine for
more than forty years, was a German by birth, and was edncated
in Germany.      He came to Cambridge later in life than most men
commence residence, entering at my own college, Pembroke.        At the
time when   he entered he was only imperfectly acquainted with the
English language.     He took his degree in due course, having come
out fourth wrangler. He obtained a fellowship at Clare College, and,
after some time, was elected Professor of Natural Philosophy in the
University of St. Andrews, at which town he continued to reside till
his death, and where his widow still resides. He was remarkably
well acquainted with what had been done in physical science.
   In the middle of January we lost, in Lord Napier of Magdala, a
man of world-wide reputation, who had been a Fellow of the Society
for more than twenty-three years. A Bketch of his life has already
                   '
appeared in the Proceedings.'
   The eminent physician Sir William Gull, who for some consider
 able time had been in failing health, was taken from us at the
 beginning of this year. The Fellows have already in their hands a
sketch of his life.
   In February there died, at an advanced age, our Fellow Sir Robert
 Kane, who was eminent among what we may regard as the last
 generation of chemists.   A biographical notice of him is already in
 the hands of the Fellows.
    Robert William Mylne, who died in July, was for thirty years a
 Fellow of the Society, to which also both his father and grandfather
 belonged.   He was twelfth in direct descent of a family of architects
 and engineers, his direct ancestor having had the erection of new
 buildings for Holyrood Palace in the reign of Charles the Second.
 He was himself a hydraulic engineer, and was frequently consulted as
 to water supply, both by the Government and by private companies.
 He was perhaps best known in the department of geology, and his
 geological map of London and the neighbourhood, a work of immense
 labour and expense, was long a standard authority among scientific
 men.

1890.]                   President     8   Address.                            467
   General Sir John Henry Lefroy, who died last April, combined the
duties of his profession and of his responsible offices as Governor of
Bermuda, and, for a time, of Tasmania, with active scientific work in
relation especially to terrestrial magnetism, with which he was con"
nected by his post as director of magnetic observatories at St. Helena
and at Toronto. He is the author of a treatise on the subject, and
has entered into some investigations bearing on a possible cause of
local magnetic irregularities, which       seem   well deserving of considera
tion.
   Sir Warington Wilkinson Smyth, who was       high an authority on
                                                      so
all that relates to mining, and geology as bearing upon     was one  it,
of our Fellows who repeatedly served on our Council and on varions
committees, and by his sound judgment aided us in onr deliberations.
Though his health had been failing for some time, his end came upon
us with startling suddenness.  It will be remembered by many of the
Fellows that he was present at our conversazione on the 18th of Jun?,
and next morning he breathed his last.  He was widely known as                  a
man of science, and was honorary Fellow of various societies on the
Continent. In him have lost one who was formerly a colleague of
                    I
my own as lecturer in the School of Mines.
  William Kitchen Parker held a very high place among biologists
in relation especially to the homologies of the vertebrate skeleton.
Notwithstanding the laborious nature of his profession, he managed
to find time for his scientific pursuits, and our Transactions   con
                                                           '               '
tain    alarge number of papers which came from his pen, and are
illustrated by elaborate drawings.     So highly were his biological
researches thought of, that for several years means were found,
through an application of a portion of the Government Grant, foi
enabling him to dispense with the laborious work of his profession,
and devote himself to science. His genial disposition and vivacity of
manner, and, curiously enough, his personal appearance, reminded
one of Faraday.
   Dr. James Matthews Duncan, who died suddenly from heart
disease, was eminent    as an obstetric physician, and was a man of
singular straightforwardness of character.
   Our Fellow Charles Handfield Jones died on the 30th of Septem
ber.  His chief scientific labours lay in the domain of pathological
anatomy.
   Alexander John Ellis, who died on October 28, devoted great
attention to philology and to the theory of the perfection of musical
sounds, and translated v. Helmholtz's work, " Tonempfindnngen."
He had, shortly before his death, received an honorary doctor's degree
from the University of Cambridge.
   During the last year we have lost two out of our three senior
Fellows, Christopher Rice Mansel Talbot, a Fellow also of the Lit
                                                                 2   k     2

 468                       A nniversary   Meeting.                 [Dec. 1,
 nean Society, who was elected our Fellow in 1831, and, still more
 recently, in fact only a few days ago, Sir John Francis Davis, who
 was elected as long ago as 1822, and died at the very advanced age
 of ninety-six.
     The number of Fellows elected before 1847 is now reduced to
 twenty- three, so that in any statistical calculations of the effect of the
 statutes of 1847 on the number of Fellows, the present condition of
 the Society may be taken as practically normal.
     The Committee appointed in 1888 to consider the best mode of
 administrating the fund, which was inaugurated in 1882, for founding
 a memorial to our late eminent Fellow, Charles Darwin, have now
 presented their report, which has been adopted by the Council. It
 has been decided that the proceeds of the Darwin Fund be for the
 present applied biennially in reward of work of acknowledged dis
 tinction (especially in biology) in the field in which Mr. Darwin him
 self laboured ; that the award consist of a medal in silver or bronze,
 accompanied by a grant of £100 ; that it be made either to a British
 subject or to a foreigner, and without distinction of sex ; and that the
 award should be conferred at the same time as other medals at the
 Anniversary.
    It was further intended, in accordance with Mr. Darwin's known
views, that, as a rule, the award should be made rather for the work
of younger men in the early part of their career than as a reward to
men whose scientific career is nearly finished.
    The Committee appointed at a meetirg of the Council held imme
diately before the last anniversary meeting of the Society, to set on
foot a memorial of our late Fellow James Prescott Joule, have natu
rally not got quite so far in their work.          They decided that the
memorial should take an international character, and should have for
its object the encouragement of research in physical science, and
should also have in view the erection of some personal memorial in
London.     The subject was accordingly brought to the notice of a
number of scientific men abroad, from many of whom favourable
replies have been received.       The Joule Committee have resolved,
" That the balance of the fund, after providing a suitable personal
memorial, be transferred to the President, Council, and Fellows of tho
Royal Society, and that the President and Council be requested to
undertake the administration of the proceeds in such manner as may
appear to them most suitable for the encouragement of research, both
in England and abroad, especially among younger men, in those
branches of physical science more immediately connected with Joule's
work ;" and, also, " That the treasurer be instructed to retain for the
present a sum not exceeding £300 for the expenses of the medallion,
and hand over tho balance to the President, Council, and Fellows of
the Royal Society."

  1890.]                     President's Address.                       469
     This offer of the Joule Committee was accepted with thanks by the
  Council, but the further consideration of the steps to be taken has
 not yet been entered on.      Meanwhile the treasurer of the fund has
 handed over to the treasurer of the Royal Society a sum of about
 £1,400.
    In  1663, when    the second charter was granted to the Society, a
 body of statutes    was drawn up for regulating various matters not
 fixed by charter.     Alterations have since been made from time to
 time, as provided for in the statutes themselves.       The last consider
 able alteration was made in 1847, when the present system was intro
 duced, according to which the Council select from the candidates,
 other than those who       have a special privilege as to coming on for
 ballot, a definite number whom they recommend to the Society for
 election, and the election takes place on one definite day in the year.
 A few changes, of less importance, have been made since that time,
 and experience has pointed out the desirability of some changes of
 detail, chiefly as regards the mode of dealing with papers.        A com
 mittee was appointed last session, and continued at the commencement
 of the present, to revise the whole body of statutes, with a view to
 bring them into stricter conformity with existing practice, and at the
 same time to propose further changes, should any such appear
 desirable.    The Committee have now reported ; but as the session
 was near its end, and the subject was one requiring full consideration
 by the Council, the report has been merely received and entered on
 the minutes, and it has been left to the Council that is to be elected
 to-day to take such further steps as may appear to them desirable.
    Some of the proposed alterations relate to the mode of dealing with
papers which are communicated to the Society, which is a matter of
practical business that may well be left to the judgment and experi
 ence of the executive body.      Bat some points have been raised which
it seems desirable to bring to the notice of the Fellows at large, in
 order that they may have an opportunity of considering them before
 a final decision is come to by the new Council.
    The question has more than once been raised whether, considering
the increase of population and the more general diffusion of scientific
knowledge which has taken place within the last forty years, the
number of candidates to be selected by the Council for recommenda
tion to the Fellows for election might not now, with advantage, be
made a little larger than fifteen, the number at which it was fixed in
1847. On this question there was considerable difference of opinion
in the Committee, but the majority were in favour of keeping the
number as it is at present.
    Connected, to a slight extent, with this question is another, whether
the Council should not have the power of recommending to the
Fellows for election, in addition to the fifteen selected from among

470                        Anniversary Meeting.                   [Dec.  1,
the candidates on the ground of scientific merit, a strictly limited
number of men of very high eminence in other ways. The Committee
recommend that such a power be entrusted to the Council, the
number of Fellows who have been thus elected, existing at any time,
being limited to a maximum of twenty-five, and the number elected
in any year to a maximum of two.
   The question was also discussed whether the maximum number of
foreign members, which at present stands at fifty, should be increased,
and was decided in the negative.
   Another recommendation of the Committee which, perhaps, it may
be as well to mention, is one enabling the Council, in any year, to
regulate for the ensuing year the length of the Christmas and Easter
holidays.    At present the weekly meetings are resumed in the second
week after Christmas week, and there is then no intermission till Passion
week, although the earlier portion at least of this interval is a time
during which papers intended for reading do not usually come in so
frequently as towards the end of the session. According to the
statute in force till 1888, three of the ordinary weekly meetings
between Whit-Sunday and the last meeting in June were cut out, by
the Whitsun holiday, Ascension Day, and the annual election of
Fellows ; and as at that time of year papers commonly come in
pretty frequently, there was a considerable congestion of papers
towards the close of the session. This congestion was partially
relieved by an alteration of the statutes, which came into force iu
1888, enacting that an ordinary meeting should be held at the con
clusion of the Annual Meeting for the election of Fellows ; but the
fact that the proportion between the number of meetings held and
the number of papers that come in varies a good deal with the season
seems to render it desirable that the regulation of the number of
meetings should be rather more elastic, and should, to some extent,
be left in the hands of the Council.
   Since the last anniversary twenty-five memoirs have been published
in the ' Philosophical Transactions,' containing a total of 10G8 pages
and 72 plates.       Of the ' Proceedings,' eleven numbers have been
issued, containing 1165 pages.
   In the library, the work of making room for growing series, and of
obtaining volumes or parts to complete series that were imperfect,
has been oontinued.      In the course of this work the Council have,
upon   the recommendation    of the Library Committee, distributed some
 1500 volumes, consisting partly of duplicates and partly of works of
small scientific value, among various public institutions.       The cata
logue of the manuscripts,       which    I  mentioned in my last year's
address as about to be commenced, has been completed during the
past session. The maps and charts, the pictures and busts, have also
been catalogued    ;  and the collection   of the manuscripts of memoirs

1890.]                      President's  Address.                    471
           '
in   the      Philosophical Transactions,' the ' Proceedings,' and the
1
  Archives,' having been completed, the binding of them is now going
forward.
   The Royal Society has always been ready to assist the Government
of the day wheu requested so to do, by expressing its opinions or
offering its advice on questions involving special scientific knowledge.
Last year I received, as your President, a request from the President
of the Board of Trade that I should, in conjunction with two Fellows
of the Royal Society nominated by me in consultation with the
Council, examine a report in two parts presented by the Corporation
of the Trinity House to the Board of Trade, relative to Lighthouse
Illuminants, and express our opinion whether the conclusions of the
Trinity House, as set forth in their Reports, are justified by the
records of the experiments contained therein.        Lord Rayleigh and
Sir William Thomson were           asked,  and consented, to join me as
referees, and our Report was some time ago sent in to the Board of
 Trade, and is now in the hands of the public.
    Another subject in which scientific principles are blended with
practical application, is that of colour blindness in its relation to the
correct perception of coloured signals uRed at sea and in the railway
service.     It is easy to understand what serious accidents might be
occasioned, for instance, by confusing red with green ; and so well is
the liability to such confusion, arising from a not very rare abnormal
condition of colour perception, understood at the present day, that
persons who propose to engage in service at sea or on the railways
are now, as a matter of course, examined as to their perception of
colour.    But, glaring as the difference between red and green appeai-s
to persons whose vision is normal, the detection of those who are
liable to confound them, and who, for the most part, are quite un
conscious that they see colours differently from people in general, is
by no means so easy as it might appear at first sight ; and there
appeared reason to think that sometimes the tests applied are defec
tive, and let pass persons who are afflicted with this peculiarity of
vision, while, on the other hand, they may lead to the rejection of
persons whose vision is normal, perhaps, after thoy have engaged as
they hoped for life in an employment for which normal vision is
demanded.       Mr. R. Brudenell Carter wrote a letter to us suggesting
that we should appoint a committee to investigate the subject of
colour blindness, and after discussion of this proposal I was requested
to write a letter to the President of the Board of Trade informing
him that, should the Government desire it, the Conncil will be pre
pared to appoint a committee to consider the whole question of colour
blindness.      A reply was received from the Board thanking us for the
communication, and saying that they regarded with satisfaction the
proposal of the Council to appoint such a committee.         A committee

472                      Anniversary Meeting.                   [Dec. 1,
has accordingly been appointed, and     has held several meetings, and
examined several witnesses ; but the     subject is a wide one, and the
committee have not yet brought their    labours to a close.
   The proceedings of to-day bring to   an end my long tenure of office
in the Royal Society, which has extended now over thirty-six years,
during the last five of which I have held the honourable office of
your President.     I am deeply sensible of the kindness which I have
always experienced from the Fellows, and of the indulgence with
which they have overlooked my deficiencies, due, in part, to the
pressure of other work.      It cannot be without a strong feeling of
regret that I come to the close of an official connexion with the
Society that has now extended over full half my life. But I feel
that it is time that I should make way for others, and that I should
not wait for those infirmities which advancing years so often bring in
their train ; besides which there are personal reasons which led me
to request the members of the Council not to vote for my nomination
for re-election as your President.
   And now it only remains to me, as virtually my last official act as
your President, to perform the pleasing duty of delivering the medals
which the Society has to award to the respective recipients of those
honours.
   The Copley Medal has been awarded to our Foreign Member, Pro
fessor Simon Newcomb, who has been engaged during the last thirty-
years in a series of important researches, which have contributed
greatly to the progress of gravitational astronomy.         Among his
labours in this field may be mentioned his able discussion of the
mutual    relations of the orbits of the Asteroids, with reference to
Olbers' hypothesis, that they were formed by the breaking up of a
ring of nebulous matter, his discussion of the orbits of Uranus and
Neptune, and of the orbit of the Moon.      Rocently he has turned his
attention to Saturn's satellites, and has investigated the remarkable
action of Titan on Hyperion.      For many years back he has chiefly
been engaged in perfecting the tables of the Moon ; and in his
important work, " Researches on the Motion of the Moon," he
has discussed observations of eclipses and occultations previous to
1750. with the important practical result that by the removal of an
empirical term of long period from Hansen's lunar tables, and by an
empirical alteration of another term of long period, he is enabled to
represent satisfactorily the observations    of the Moon from    1625 to
the present time.
   The Rumford Medal has been awarded to Professor H. Hertz for
his work on Electro-magnetic Radiation.
   One of the most remarkable achievements of the late Professor
Clerk Maxwell was his electro-magnetic theory of light, in which it
was shown that a certain velocity, determinable numerically by purely

   1890.]                      President's A ddress.                    473
  electrical   experiments, and expressing theoretically tlie velocity of
  propagation of an electro-magnetic         disturbance, agreed within the
  limits  of  error  of  experiment  with the known velocity of propagation
  of light   ; and accordingly that we have strong reason for believing
  that light is an electro-magnetic phenomenon, whatever the appro
  priate physical idea may hereafter prove to be which we ought to
  attach to the propagation of an electro-magnetic disturbance.      But as
  yet no means existed by which phenomena, such as those of inter
  ference, which are bound up with the propagation of undulations,
  could be exhibited by purely electrical means. Professor Heitz was
  the first to detect electro-magnetic waves in free space by his inven
  tion of a suitable receiver, consisting of what may be called a
  resonating circuit, which gives visible sparks when immersed in a
 region of sufficiently intense electric radiation.
     By reflection, refraction, and interference experiments, he has
  further verified the undulatory nature of the disturbance near a quick
  electric oscillator, such as had been suggested by Professor Fitzgerald,
 on the basis of Clerk Maxwell's electro-magnetic theory of light, and
  Sir W. Thomson's theory of the oscillatory character of a Leyden jar
 discharge.
     These important researches contribute powerfully to the induce
 ments we have to refer the phenomena of light and electricity to a
 common cause, different as hitherto their manifestations       have been  ;
 and by this means the theory of each may be advanced through what
 we know of the other.
     One of the Royal Medals has been awarded to our Fellow, Dr.
 David Ferrier, for his researches on the localisation of cerebral
 functions.
     We owe to his experiments on monkeys, animals which he was the
first to use for this purpose, the beginning and indeed the greater
part of our knowledge of cerebral localisation in man. From patho
logical observations, Broca located the centre for speech in the third
left frontal convolution,      but with this exception nothing was known
of cerebral      localisation  in man until Dr. Ferrier commenced his
experiments in 1873.
     Fritsch and Hitzig in 1870 had observed that definite movements
could be obtained by electrical irritation of the cerebral cortex in the
dog, and this indicated the existence of localised motor areas in the
brain.     They did nothing, however, towards localising sensory centres,
and even in regard to the motor centres their observations were very
limited.      Their experiments, moreover, were confined to dogs, and it
may be doubted whether any great or rapid advance would have been
made had not Ferrier hit upon the happy device of experimenting
upon monkeys, whose brains present a great similarity in the arrange
ment of the convolutions to those of man.              By employing these

474                      A nniversary Meetinp.                    [Dec. 1,
animals, he was able to map oat the most important motor areas with
great precision ; but, not content with the investigation        of motor
centres, he experimented on the localisation of sensory centres in the
brain, and not only showed the existence of such centres, but deter
mined their position.     And if in the numerous observations which
have been subsequently made by other inquirers results somewhat
differing from his own have been obtained, the main outlines of
his conclusions have been confirmed.           As so often happens, these
researches, purely scientific   in the first instance, have been turned to
practical account.    Dr. Ferrier himself predicted the application of
cerebral localisation to cerebral surgery. This application others have
already made, and his prediction is now being fulfilled with brilliant
results.
   The other Royal Medal has been awarded to our Fellow, Dr. John
Hopkinson, for his researches in magnetism and electricity.
   Dr. Hopkinson's researches in magnetism comprise investigations
of the effect of temperature upon the magnetic properties of iron,
nickel, and various alloys of these metals (' Phil. Trans.,' 1889, A,
p. 443).    It was known that for small magnetising forces the mag
netisation of iron, nickel, and cobalt increases with increase of
temperature until we approach a certain temperature, which may be
called the critical temperature, on passing which the magnetism almost
suddenly disappears. Dr. Hopkinson's experiments show that for small
magnetising forces not only does the magnetisation increase with ri^e
of temperature, but on approaching           the critical temperature the
increase becomes extremely rapid, and then, on still further increase
of temperature, the magnetism suddenly almost entirely disappears.
He has further determined the critical temperature for various
Bam pies of iron and steel.      He has also measured the rapid change
which takes place in the temperature coefficient of electrical resistance
in the neighbourhood of the critical temperature, and has shown that,
as had been conjectured, it is really at the critical temperature that
the phenomenon of recalescence takes place.
   Dr. Hopkinson's contributions to the theory of dynamo-electric
machinery are most important. The method, now so extensively
used,  of solving problems relating to dynamos by the use of what
M. Deprez has called the " characteristic curve," is due to him.
   He has also made a series of determinations of the specific induc
tive capacities and refractive indices of a large number of transparent
dielectrics, the results of which are of great importance           in the
theories of electricity and light.
   The Davy Medal has been awarded to Professor Emil Fischer for
his discoveries in organic chemistry, and especially for his researches
on the carbo-hydrates.
   To him, in conjunction     with Otto Fischer, we owe the determina

1890.J                     President's Address.                        475
tion of the constitution of rosaniline, a most valuable     dye-stuff, and
the typical member of a very large group of important      dyes.
   He is the discoverer of phenylhydrazine, one of         the most im
portant of the reagents placed at chemists' disposal       within recent
years, and he has most exhaustively studied the behaviour of this
substance and its congeners. The hydrazines have also been employed
by Fischer in preparing indole derivatives, among others, skatole,
and the study of a class of substances of considerable physiological
importance has thereby been rendered possible.
   During the past seven years Fischer has devoted his attention to
the study of the sugars, and has obtained most marvellous results,
having succeeded in preparing, by purely artificial methods, the
known sugars dextrose and levulose, as well as other isomeric sugars,
and having established the relationship of the various members of the
glucose group.     He has, in addition, determined the constitution of
milk-sugar and of starch-sugar — the isomer of cane-sugar formed on
hydrolysing starch.      He has also prepared " glucoses" containing
seven, eight, and nine atoms of carbon, and has established the
remarkable fact that only those which contain three, six, or nine
atoms of carbon are fermentable by yeast.         His researches are not
only of the highest value to chemists, but also of extreme importance
to physiologists, on account of the insight which they promise into the
processes concerned in the natural formation of sugars.
    The Darwin Medal has been awarded to Mr. Alfred Russel Wallace
for his independent origination of the theory of the origin of species
by natural selection.
    It was natural that this, the first, award of the Darwin Medal
should have been made to one who independently            originated the
theory,   since named   that of natural selection, which, in conjunction
with his other numerous and important contributions in the domain
of natural history, has made the name of Darwin so famous, and
who made known a large series of important and novel observations
in support of that theory, the result of many years' work in the Malay
 Archipelago.    These views Mr. Wallace has subsequently most ably
advocated in various published works, among others his laborious
 volumes on the ' Geographical Distribution of Animals,' his brilliant
'
  Island Life,' and more recently his ' Darwinism,' which was
published only last year.
    The Statutes relating to the election of Council and Officers were
then read, and Mr. Common and Mr. Symons having been, with the
 consent of the Society, nominated Scrntators, the votes of the Fellows
 present were taken, and the following were declared duly elected as
 Council and Officers for the ensuing year : —

476                  Election of Council and  Officers.      [Dec. 1,
  V resident. — Sir William   Thomson, D.C.L., LL.D.
  Treasurer. — John Evans, D.C.L.,    LL.D.
            .      f Professor Michael Foster, M.A., M.D.
  Secretaries.—
                  |Tho Lord Rayleigh> M A> D c L
  Foreign Secretary. — Archibald Geikie,   LL.D.
                       Other Members of the Council.
  Professor William Edward Ayrton ; William Henry Mahoner
Christie, M.A. ; Professor W. Boyd Dawkins, M. A. ; James Whitbread
Lee Glaisber, D.Sc. ; Hugo Miiller, Ph.D. ; Professor Alfred Newton,
M.A. ; Sir William Robert*, M.D.; William Chandler Roberts-
Austen, F.C.S. ; Professor Edward Albert Schafer, M.R.C.S. ; Sir
George Gabriel Stokes, Bart, M.A. ; Lient.-General Richard Straohey,
R.E. ; Professor Joseph John Thomson, M.A. ; Professor Thomas
Edward Thorpe, B.Sc. ; Sir William Turner, M.D. ; Professor Sydney
Howard Vines, M.A. ; General James Thomas Walker, C.B.
  The thanks of the Society were given to the Scrutators.

                                                                                                               wu»2»fif                                   '0(381
                                                    )iout»)v/g          fo     »fdtj04j[          puv        puidxR         <u»; iooj/   JtXfmnoji            'T»ZT     '6881        Of   ¦t»qut*«ofi         ''11ZI     '0681
                                                                                                                      3F                                                                                                                                       3F          •»
ox     aouBjBg       ?b     'nuBg        q?gl '-laqmaAOji    6881                                                     t6                             'sauBiBg          'bbSb^   puB             uoisuaj                                                     ssi'i         zi
"    9onB]Ba        at     'puBij     anSopfjBj     !(anooay                           Z     il         li                                           enSopjjBQ           jo nnpuaiop                ejadflj                                                    9SI        TI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ?o0
                                                                                                                      ...   11   11
                             "       £w&
                                                8tl
                                                    <P»g
                                                        V* t?                      Z6S
                                                                                      I      tl         ft
                                                                                                        10                   0
                                                                                                                                                     s^ooff  joj            aqj    A.iu.iqt'[
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3F        '*    'P
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              stz         I     I
" [Bnuny           'suonnquinoo                                                                                1  -1U        0                       pnBSuijiiw^    'eiioT^OB8utux9u!<!!'t-,3APV
                                                                                             00                 __,<T                                                                           pu«
                                                   8.T1«I3T                                             fO                                             puB ajtundag     saido3  oj saoqiny
                                                                            Est'
"    ea_j uoiianpag             'ptmj         ui    rial]     jo   uoisstmpy               gaaj     puB                                                  »q«iq"j                                                                      est       ot
        pjnuuy           euotinqutuoo                                                                              108       0    0                  oWa         'sSuipaaoojj              •<!°K 08Z          °1 t6Z                  9Z8       81
:s;aa^"
                                                                                       JF   *       p                                                o»m         snoauiqiaDsij^                 "                                     SIT       6T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     160
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Z   961        91     Z
     aa_j       'oijbj      sajnai                                                    81     tl         IS                                           JsdflJ           *°}         anoifamuurx                 puB      -oj,j
                                                                                                                   mr       tl
        adioqiaiqBj^              9Wsg                                                88     0          fO                                               s8uipaao                                                                                g0
                                                                                                                            81
                                                                                                                                  S 6                                                                                                            9
" pnnoaf)    Rtn8a                                                                                                 883                               Smpuig      °W!P               '""                                                8t       tl
" spuapiAifl    OAwnpxB)                     jo
                                              iibo^i
                                                    1<""I      («punj                                          fteo'Z
                                                                                                                  ggg
                                                                                                                                                     SniiBjSujf             pu«      XqdejSoqiiq                                  Z89           tl   I                     L      Z
"    ^9ajaiaj      uo  bSsSijojj                                                                                                                     aaaiog puB         noiidaaag               sasaadxg                                                        191
" apst; jo       enoijaBtiuBJx               ptro     eSuipaaaojj                                                  gcg      81                       '[Bog      'SuijuShi     Dig                                                SSI                 6
•' apig     jo     anSopuBg
                                                                                                                       g    s     9 0                aagjo       sasuadxg                                                         St
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I0
" ap>g jo bo?B3(Bjx               qjodaa              SuiABaj)          t6SF     »U         pz     -13                                               asnojj      sasuadxg                                                        981        IT
        ajnjipnad          ui ssaaxa   jo           (s^diaoag
                                                                                                                        g                        flax      sasuadxjj                                                                  61    81
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S                                9
"    jajeuBjj,    mojj           yCajpuBjj         pnnj   uo ijunooafl            jo   anSopjjB^                   £81                               aj;,} eannmsuj                                                               S3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I38 0      8*9        Zl
" Buoijisodraog                                                                                                    08J                           »»™X             "•                                                              tt        7.1      11
                           'i[dBj3onoK       eaiBg                              013F        3                                                        8ui«i}jaApy                                                                      a     11
" pjajuapuaq                                                                                       Lo                                                                                                                                           00T
"    uoijnquiuoj             mojj   uBijBJjeny     'tnnasnj\[                                           <,       OXJ        S     0                                                                                               t9        01
       Xaup.Cg                                                                   OOZ        0      fO                                                inorosfpoBijfl                 sasuadxjj                                     08              T
" jaSuapflqo              '^jodaa        ^uaiuujaAO^)              ^unO                                         Oog'i
                                                                                                                            0    0                   ppjnapaarj              qdnaSouopj               SuiqBui)   qjiAi mouaid                        xjl
" nlwj sjefiQ             papnnjaj        »j       saJiBq      I'n-'X                                              (5q      II   IT                   auniipuad             z&QZr •«)                 hi SS3.1I8 jo (K)dieo»g                                        9T    6
                                                                                                                                                     BOiBipug;          qaoday                                                                                       on
                                                                                                                                                     no|8aiuvQ            noi)cuo0                                                                               i8        OX    Z o0 0
                                                                                                                                                 jaSua'p^p     'jjodaa   ¦»uauiA*«d oj ujv                                ¦[ jCuojmjy                          009
                                                                                                                                                 ou}oa]3   '8ui5i]3;n[ 'iutiu                                                                                       S9
                                                                                                                                                 aoiiBpig  }B sj9^uu{j                                                                                       ESi'l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           096   fS
                                                                                                                                                     aoiiBpig         no     'pu«q        BnSojwjsj           innoooy            Z?        SI        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 SZ
                                                                                                                                                 <o«!n           *»»a         iisbj                                              ez         e        s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1r                   9*81
                                                                                                             S99'i3F        6    01
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           VS 999"         0    Ot

478                                                       Financial Statement.                                       [Dec.   1,
                                                                    30
                                                                    o
                                                                    -*
                                                                    -*
      t;'   3     ©   N          O         o         to   n   !D        o to             ¦* to    O O
      a,'   O O 00                                   00 OS -f           c o
                                 -*        CO        «    © *1                   Is*     or lO    —<   o
            to -h                                                       5f               _^       eo            to
                      8     a
                      §'*
                      O —
                      <~ *
                      o     £
                      -
            -               *r
                  If
                      a
            "g"              5"
                                      S
                                           bs        ?
                                      ¦u a  as            c   5H
                                           i.   C    S
                                                     £             .2
            2               Zi
                      = p
             '    s
            "5    »
                  5     *~
                      5-^"            ,2   ">
            aj    2X        S3        W         !>        OCG3               C
            pq
                            -
                                                     i-ioo         ooD^fflnnNCixto                         ^
                                                                   ¦-««CflM^»-ifl                          tO
                                                                                       OS -I rH            t-

1890.]                             Financial Statement.                                    479
                                -                               *„• O O    © M ¦* -3
                                                                              ^  -i
                               5                                                    oa
                                G
                                                                u n
                                                                ^       c  Q
                                                                           •*
                                                                              -  do s
                                                                              tC r- S
                                                                    C-_ ?1
 -3
 4                                                              OS
                               3
                                           3     fjoo
                                          rC
                                              jo 2  8 5; a.
                                            . g
                                                 w 68  §^
                         5                o    S| J
                               c
                                           gig s       £^
        3    |   =H
                                          -Poo"?
        a
        § a
             =    »
                 -3            i     s    3"3 § 3     r= 3
                                                    =  =»
                                     5
   8   -
       ©
            1
                 s
                  S3
                         S
                         5
                              1      I    o =h ¦* I
                                           Kii'gO
                                                        .
                                                       3 3
   »s
   o              c                        t£ u c3 ¦«O n
                      E 5"
                               t
          «. *
       ««-¦       OS
       «
            |    F
                      5< I    6
       «.   —
            —     *
                  8
   v.        tic  c
   4)       .9    o •A .2
                                     .
                                          55 5 E b
                                        . _^ -3 <2 t.
                                                      a
                                                      ^    «
                                     *    "2 -S «  £S      "'
  Oh        ¦°
        O                      ©O
             o    "
                 .5
                               3 I
   K
            £     £            «3 OS
                              rO X
   8
       H
             «    O M
                  o           (J  00 3    "        a       i:
             o   »    8  *         313COHCOlO              o
                 M       3
   8
                                       « « W» * «
                            3      *
                            3
                           5^
                                                           8
 3                       OS     .
                                                          IS
                                                           3
                                                          DO
       Id
       W O
             u        <U 3
                     Ph  o                                    5             «3
                                                                                       I 5

480 Financial Statement.               [Dec. 1,
                          =
                              5 Or,'1'  •
                          I:
                         -0   3
                          a   -
                          e
                          c a
                         % 3
                         1^
                         6s
                         t
                          »
                             B
                             s
                          c  *¦ 05 o
                                >j
                             _ ^Ha
                          l's   =ga
                          « ¦
                          3 g   ««
                          SOo
                          a, i)
                         ¦5-2
                         •s-g
                          II
                         £10
                             O

1890.]                                       Trust Fuiuh.                                                4*1
                                                                                       © »1          W
                                                                                       rH —*
                                                                                       ~ OS          g
                                                                                       .-5 X
                                                                                                     A
                                         en m
                                                                                c
                                                                               r/.
                      e    .
                      e
                           -   t-
                                             z   -J                       rf
                      fe   c   -
                                         1—1—
                                                                          -    X
                                                                          e    -7
   o
   CT.
                           .=                -
                      2                  — T
                                                 I
   CO                                    •
                                    pa
               ft*
                      °*       =<
                                                      -.OCX                                "*
                      6.*
                                                          i
                               g                                                     ¦te
                                                                                       S
                                         K                      ca
                                                  i   —         r
                                                                i—i
                                                                               ;s          3 X
                                                                      *
                                                                          is
                                         1-
                                         »
                      ¦8   g             i-l
                               =                                          J- c
                                                                          C    3
                      >J   O w           8
                                                                          « ^
                                                                               H
                                                                                       © S 4>
                                                                                       c a-
                                                                                       B "5
                                                                                             e 2
                                                          *<J
                                                                                       •51
                                                                kH
                                                                                       ©IS
                                                                                       H
 VOL.    XI, VI It.                                                                          2   L

                                                                                            pjofiunyr          •paiy
                                                                   OS8'Z3F      {g aad         -4ua,5     poiBp!ioscioo           •jjooig
                                                                                                                                                                                              Jf          s    •p
                                                                                                                       MBqojnj         jo   43? »I      po                 ?nao     jpojg           919
                                                                                                                i%                                              Jg   J9d                                       !T
                                                                                        8      T                                                                                              Zil        8T
     «P™P»!<I                                                                   Z9                                "    oounpiff
 "
                                                                                               8                                                                                            6H3F         91    £
                                                                             13F Of    91
                                                                       ttvuj.yiig           puv       fa/dog     ivjujY        'pimj
                                             "8                         'WO   999'l3r ss\                  p*     Jg jod iuoj    pojspnoenoo                       ¦]jD<r|g
                                                  Hdasof   »,^ld°0
                                                                      EOt?  '*6 7>8 -«8M                 U      jw1 -1«*n  ¦!(Ooi8
                                                                                3F     *                                                                                                            3f    •«
oj   eoireisff                                                                 6TT     f                                                                                                        f        ST
                                                                                6      91                              •ASg     jfi    -uouiiwg       J!S-    'f                  "WIO          09
 "   'spuapiiiy
     pnapiiiQ
                    J»9JJ
                  — jig
                             fg
                            'f
                                   4ad -%uaQ J)0O}g
                                                                                ft     BT
                                                                                                                  "
                                                                                                                  "    90IIU(T!;|
                                                                                                                                                                    8.Mrlo0
                                                                                                                                                                                              6IT
                                                                                                                                                                                                          0Z
 "                               >,Xa{dof) ptmjj
                                                                                       *T      9                                                                                            6IT3F        H     9
                                                                          8413?
                                                           0083F     pu«ip!K         aVuiiuh
                                                                                                      g  jad    11133        Mniuaq»(i       •^.iois
                                                                                 3T     ¦*        y                                                                                             j         t    'P
                                                                                8Z
                                                                                        o
                                                                                        8
                                                                                                       II        iji   icj    lusiii     01 hSiojoj
                                                                                                                                                                                                          fi   0
°I   ePu9P!AKI                                                                                                                                               .{jtijajaag
                                                                                                         jj

1890.]                     Trust Funds.                  483
                       co                sx^     t>
             ¦i CO     CM         « as j « ¦* o> CQ
                N
            «<i¦* CO
                    <N -+
                       1>                  CO1~  s
                       =«
                                            :  :
                 o
                 to
         m
                 S3
       £ -2
       3  o
         U
          a
          o
             « CO
                        >-
                               o
                               i
                               c
                               O
                                    s
                                    o
              H3                   K       SS
               o    .
              H                            H
                                                   2 L 2

484                 Trust Fund'.                               [Dec.   1,
        c a
            2
      „• O O r-l                  « 01                •iOJ
         i~ rj ?i
      5j
      *• *  •* w
                                                         --
                                    o           V.
                                                        2
                                    3           1
                            C
                            C-
                                          i
                                          =
                                                o
                                                O
                                  -
                                          I*.   *J
                          £3
                                          I
                                          1
                                                     "to ***
                                          -5    <N
                                                -5
                                                I.
                            c g
                                    C                   s -5
                                                        ¦3
                                      O
                                   H

1890.]                     Trust Funds.                               485
                                ^ O    «   j <o       ^  »X=       -H
             H- C iC -M          *• OS ¦+ |  k         . oi o o    eg
            •rt O *m o:         « ° S IS                     >' © ¦#
                                                           ¦+Di5
                                                                CO rH
        o
        c
       -t->
       «j
                t  5
       —
       —
               MS
               "S o
       ¦3
   tl           5 c                                          «   3
                                                         !3 fL« J^
                                     a  s
                                    X   a
                                     a ,3
                111                 T   03
                                                         Pi
                                                             m a
                                                            W O pq
               cH Ph CP             P* pq
                                         -          o         -
                                                          »>>- - - *-
 £  8.8.       p?       .-   mi     pq             O     pq
                            *
 I"    5P
            -            l
                         I   s?
                                                'I
                                -5 to  o        SI P3 ~
                                                            rH
                X 30
                         *
                        "S "3                CO       « «> »    o
                         £  a
   ^3 —
            ^3
               X rt
                        4   j       c  >o    CO
                                             !S
                                             CI
   si!
     "
        0
                             3
                             O
                                                   -3
                            Vj                      5
                                                    c
                                                    c
       a                    Sri
                                                   pa
       a

48(!            Appropriation of    the Government    Grant.      [Dec. 1,
   Tlie following Table shows the progress and present state of the
Society with respect to the number of Fellows : —
                       Patron              Com      £4       £3     Total.
                        and   Foreign. pounders.
                                                  yearly. yearly.
                       Royul.
  Nov. 30, 1889            5        47       17G     151      139     518
                                r                         +             18
                                                                    -
                                           +                        +
                                                          -
  Since Elected                                                12
                                           -
                                     3          3
                               -
                   . .
  Since Deceased                                  -"a                   18
                                                  -
                   . .                1        11               1
  Defaulter                       ..         ..         i           -      1
  Dec. 1, 1890     ..      5       49        1G8     145      150     517
Account of the appropriation of the sum of £4,000 (the Govern
       ment Grant) annually voted by Parliament to the Royal
       Society, to be employed in aiding the advancement of
       Science (continued from Vol. XL VI, p. 469).
                                1889-1890.
                                                                           £
    E. Nevill, for continuing his Deduction of the Corrections to
the Theory embodied in Hansen's Lunar Tables                               50
    P. Smyth, for further Researches in Spectroscopic; Measure
ment of Ultra Definition and Extreme Separation                          100
    J. N. Lockyer, for Astrophysical Observations, including
 Long Exposure Photographs of the Spectra of Nebula? with
Comparison Spectra                      '.                               125
    G. Higgs, for the Production by means of Photography of a
Map of a Normal Solar Spectrum from w. 1. 3,000 to 10.000. .                50
    C. Davison, for the Preparation of the Bibliography of
Seismology     (1800-83)                                                    10
    A. M. Worthington, for an Investigation of the Relation
between Tensional Stress and Strain in Liquids                              40
    Dr. J. W. Tripe, for further Aid in Providing Assistance
for the Discussion       of Observation       of Thunderstorms in
1888-89                                                                    30
    Prof.  W.   Ramsay, for an Investigation of the Ratio be
tween the Specific Heat at Constant Volume and at Constant
Pressure of (primarily) Ether-gas                                          60
                                         Carried forward              £465

1890.]           Appropriation   of the Government   Grant.           487
                                                                       £
                                     Brought forward                  4('5
   J. I.   Plammer, for Reducing and Publishing Observations of
Eight Comets and for further Observations                              50
    Profs. Riicker and Thorpe, for a further Magnetic Survey of
the United Kingdom                                                    600
    Colour-vision Committee of the Royal Society                      100
   J. B. Cohen, for a Research on the Constitution of the Com
pounds of Ammonia with Sulphuretted Hydrogen                            50
    W. H. Perkin, jun., for further Research on the Constitution
of the Alkaloid Berberin                                                50
    F. R. Japp, for an Investigation of the Reactions of Ketones,
Diketones, and Allied Compounds                                         75
    G. J. Burch and J. E. Marsh, for Continuation of their Re
searches on Amine Vapours                                               50
    A. Smith, for a Research on the Synthesis and Properties of
1  :  3- and I : 4-Diketones                                            10
    S. Pickering, for an Investigation on the Nature of Solutions,
and the Law of the Freezing Points of Solutions                         50
    Dr. F. S. Kipping, for an Investigation of the Action of
Phosphoric Anhydride on Fatty Acids                                    25
   A. P. Laurie, for Continuation of Researches on the Com
position of Alloys                                                     40
    Prof. W. R. Dunstan, for further Investigation of the Con
nexion between the Chemical Constitution of certain Organic
Nitrites and their Physiological Action                                50
     Dr. C. R. A. Wright, for further Researches on Ternary
Alloys                                                                 50
   T. R. Marshall, for a Research on the Constitution of
Diacetyl Tetramethylene Carboxylic Acid, and three other Re
searches                                                               15
   S. Ruhemann,      for a Research on Mucic and Saccharic Acids       20
   G. S. Turpin, for a Research on the Ignition of Explosive
Gaseous Mixtures                                                       50
   H. Gordon, for an Investigation of the Question whether
Direct Isomeric Change of Meta- into Para-compounds, or of
Ortho- into Meta-compounds, is possible in the Benzine Series          20
   Prof. Armstrong, for the Study of Naphthalene Derivatives
with the object of determining the Laws which govern the
Formation of Substitution Derivatives of Benzenoid Hydro
carbons                                                               100
     P. J. Hartog, for the Completion    of a Thermochemical   Re
search on the Sulphiiles                                                50
                                         Carried forward.          £1,920

488             Appropriation   of the  Government  Grant.       [Dee.   1,
                                                                        £
                                       Brought forward               1,920
   W. C.   Williamson,  for further Research on the Organisation
of the Fossil Plants of the Coal-measures                               50
   R. Kidston, for a Research on the Vertical and Horizontal
Distribution of British Palaeozoic Flora                                40
   Scientific Committee, Royal Horticultural Society (per I).
Morris), for an Inquiry into the Composition of London Fog,
with special regard to the Constituents of Fog injurious to
Plant-life                                                             100
   Dr. G. H. Fowler, for Researches connected with the
Bionomics of certain Lower Crustacea                                   150
   Prof. J. R. Green, for Continuation of Researches into the
Processes of Germination in Plants                                      30
   T. Johnson, for further Investigation of Obscure or Unknown
Points in the Florideae                                                 25
   F. E. Beddard, for a Research on the Structnre of the
Oligochaeta                                                             50
   E. R. Lankester, for further Investigation of Larval Develop
ment of Amphiox us                                                     100
   G. Massee, to prepare a Monograph of the Myxogastres, and
to investigate    the Life-history   of  Typical Members    of the
Group                                                                   50
   Liverpool Marine Biological Committee (per Prof. Herdman),
for the further Exploration of the Fauna and Flora of Liver
pool Bay                                                                50
   W. Deape, for an Investigation of the Phenomena of Men
struation and Ovulation, and of the Early Stages of Develop
ment of the Monkey                                                     100
   West Indies Committee       (per D. Morris), for further Aid in
Collecting and Describing Fauna and Flora in the less known
West India Islands                                                     100
   R. Irvine, for a Research on (1) the Solvent Power of Sea-
water upon Carbonate of Lime ; (2) the Secretion of Silica. . .        100
   J. T. Cunningham, for a Month in Norway to get Developing
Eggs of Myxine ijlutinona                                               40
   E. A. Schilfer, for Continued Investigations into the Func
tions of the Brain of Monkeys                                          100
   W. Hale White, for further Investigation of the Effect upon
Bodily Temperature of Lesions of the Corpus Striatum and
Optic Thalamus                                                          50
   Prof. P. P. Frankland, for further Study of the Chemical
Changes induced by Specific Micro-organisms                             50
                                        Carried forward            £3. 105

 1890.]           Appropriation       of  the Government        Grant.                 48!)
                                                                                         £
                                            Brought forward                         3,105
    W. MacLennan, for an Experimental Investigation into all
the Known and Isolated Alkaloids of Opium                                                15
    W. D. Halliburton, for further Researches on the Chemical
Physiology of the Animal Tissues                                                         50
    Dr. J. It. Bradford, for a further Investigation into the Func
tions of the Kidney                                                                      75
    Dr. Lingard, for further Researches as to the Relation exist,
ing between the Fretus and its Mother                                                    40
    Drs. Gulland, Edington, and Ritchie, for the Purchase of
two High-power Objectives for Research Purposes                                          50
    Prof. Tait, for Aid in an Investigation on the Duration of
Impact                                                                                   80
    W. T. Thiselton Dyer, to enable Mr. Gnstav Mann to
accompany, as Botanist, the Delimitation Commission                            in
Sierra Leone                                                                           100
    J. B. Farmer, to enable him to Proceed to Ceylon to Study
the Morphology of the Hepaticaj                                                        100
                                                                                  £3,505
Dr.                                                                                     Cr.
                                      £        ,/.                              £   a.    d.
To Balance, November    30, 1880 .    (>1        1 By Appropriations,     as
 ,,  Grunt from Treasury           4,000        0     above                  3,565   0
 ,,  Repayments                       88        !) ., Salaries,   Printing,
 ,, Interest on Deposit               36      It)     Postage,   Advertis
                                                      ing, and other Ad
                                                      ministrative      Ex
                                                      penses                   101   7
                                                   ,, Balance,   Nov.    30,
                                                      1800                     460  18
                                 £¦•1,1:10 5  11                            £4,130   5   11

490          Account   of Grants from   the Donation Fund.
      Account of Giants from the Donation Fund in 1889-90.
                                                              £  s. ,1.
   Prof. Schiifer, to assist Messrs. Bradford and Dean in a
Research on the Vasomotor Nerves of the Pulmonary
Vessels                                                       15  0  0
   Prof. G. H. Darwin, towards the Payment of Computers
for the Reduction of his Tidal Observations                   25 0   0
   The Astronomer Royal, to assist Mr. Downing in Com
puting the Orbit of the Minor Planet Juno                     10 10  O
   ti. J. Symons, in Aid of Expenses connected with the
construction of Ids Broatoraeter                             100  0   0
                                                           £150 10    0

       Report of the Keiv Committee              for  the  Year ending
                             October 31, 1890.
    The operations of The Kew Observatory, in the Old Deer Park,
Richmond, Surrey, are controlled by the Kew Committee, which is
constituted as follows :
                          Mr. F. Galton, Chairman.
    Captain   W. de W. Abney, C.B.,         The Earl of Rosse, K.P.
       R.E.                                Prof. A. W. Rucker.
    Prof. W. G. Adams.                     Mr. R. H. Scott.
    Staff-Commander E. W. Creak,           Lieutenant-General R. Strachey,
       R.N.                                   C.S.I.
    Prof. G. C. Foster.                     General  J. T. Walker, C.B.
    Admiral Sir G. H. Richards,            Captain      W. J. L. Wharton,
       K.C.B.                                 R.N.
    The work at the Observatory          may be considered     under   the fol
lowing heads : —
    1st. Magnetic observations.
    2nd. Meteorological observations.
    3rd. Solar observations.
    4th. Experimental,     in connexion      with any of the abcve depart
            ments.
    5th. Verification of instruments.
    6th. Rating of Watches and Marine Chronometers.
    7tb. Miscellaneous.
                         I. Magnetic Observations.
    Throughout the past year the maguetographs have worked in a
 satisfactory manner. In accordance with the usual practice, determina
 tions of the scale values of all the instruments were made in January
 last.
    The values of the ordinates of the different photographic curves
 then determined,    were as follows   : —
                                               '
            Declinometer   : 1 inch =    0° 22 04.    1 cm. =  0° 8'7.
    Bifilar, January  10, 1890,  for 1  inch SR = 0-0278 foot grain unit.
                                  „  1   cm. „ = 0 00050 C.G.S. unit.

                      Report   of the Kew     Committee.
   Balance, January 13, 1890 for      1  inch cV= O0296 foot grain unit.
                                  „   1  cm. „ = 0-00054 C.G.S. unit.
    In the case of the vertical force magnetometer, it was found neces
sary to re-adjust the instrument, and as at the same time its sensi
bility was slightly altered, the scale value was again determined, with
the following result : —
   Balance, January 21, 1890, for    1  inch cV=  0 0284 foot  grain unit.
                                 „   1  cm. „ =    0 00051  C.G.S. unit.
   With regard to magnetic disturbances, no very exceptional move
ments have beeu recorded during the year.
   The principal disturbances were on the following dates      : — November
1 and 26—28, 1889.
   The monthly observations of Horizontal Force, Inclination, and
Declination with the absolute instruments have been made in accord
ance with the usual practice.
   Information on matters relating to terrestrial magnetism and
various data have been supplied to Professors Thorpe and Riicker,
Dr. van Rijckevorscl, Dr. Atkinson, Professor Chistoni, and Captain
Schiick.
   Magnetic Sub-Comm!ttee. — Professors W. G. Adams, A. W. Riicker
and Captain Creak having been requested by the Committee to act as
a sub-committee to consider the form to be employed in framing the
Appendices to this Report, have held two meetings.             They decided
that in future the Magnetic and Meteorological            Appendices should
be presented to the Royal Society as soon after the 1st of January
as possible, instead of accompanying the Report itself, and therefore
closing with September oOHi as heretofore.            This arrangement will
take effect with the present issue.
   At the suggestion of Professor Rueker, the Kew Magnetical Decli
nation results for the years 1883, 1886, and 1887 have been recently
discussed in a paper published by the Physical Society of Loudon in
their Proceedings, entitled " On the Diurnal Variation of the Magnet
at Kew," by Messrs. Robson and Smith.            These gentlemen, students
in the physics class at the Royal College of Science, kindly gave their
assistance in the labour of tabulation and computation.
   At the request of Professors Thorpe and Riicker, facilities have been
afforded to Messrs. Gray and Briscoe, who are also attached to the
physical    laboratory in the Royal College of Science, South
Kensington, to make magnetic base observations from time to time at
Kew, with the view of their employment in the Magnetic Survey of
Great Britain and Ireland now in progress on a more extended scale
than that on which it has before been carried out.

                        Report   of the Kew  Committee.               493
                      II.  Meteorological   Observations.
     The several self-recording instruments for the continnous registra
 tion respectively of Atmospheric Pressure, Temperature, and Humidity,
 Wind (direction and velocity), Bright Sunshine, and Rain have been
 maintained in regular operation throughout the year.
     The standard eye observations for the control of the automatic
 records have been duly registered, together with the daily observa
 tions in connexion with the U.S. Signal Service synchronous system.
     The tabulations of the meteorological traces have been regularly
 made, and these, as well as copies of the eye observations, with
 notes of weather, cloud, and sunshine, have been transmitted      to the
 Meteorological Office.
     With the sanction of the Meteorological Council, data have been
 supplied to the Council of the Royal Meteorological Society, the
            '
 editor of     Symons's Monthly Meteorological Magazine,' Dr. Rowland,
 and others.
     Tables of the monthly values of the rainfall and temperatnre have
 been regularly sent to the Meteorological        Snb-Committee of the
 Croydon Microscopical and Natural History Club for publication in
their Proceedings.        Detailed information of all thunderstorms ob
served in the neighbourhood during the year has been forwarded
to the Royal Meteorological Society, soon after their occurrence.
    Electrograph. — This instrument has been in constant action through
out the        year, and comparisons with the portable electrometer
have been made from time to time.
               Weather Chart. — The supply of the chart exhibiting copies
    '       '
      Times
of the daily traces of the self-recording meteorological instruments at
the Observatory ceased by instructions from the ' Times ' office in
March last, after continuous publication for 14 years.
    The fog gauge set np on the north side of the Observatory in 1884
has    been   recently dismounted, as it has not been found possible to
measure the intensity of this phenomenon by its means.
    Fort William Observatory. — At the request of the Meteorological
Council, a barograph and a thermograph which have been stored at
Kew Observatory since their return from Armagh Observatory in
1886 have been thoroughly re-fitted, and, after a short experimental
trial, were re-packed and forwarded to the new Observatory at Port
William for use at the low-level station worked in conjunction with
the Observatory erected on the summit of Ben Nevis.
    In June last, on receipt of information from Mr. Omond, the super
intendent of the Ben Nevis Observatory, that the new building was
ready for the reception of the instruments, Mr. T. W. Baker proceeded
to Port William and set them np and put them in proper adjustment.
Having done this, and instructed Mr. Omond in their manipulation

4«4                   Report    of the  Kew. Committee.
and    the attendant photographic operations, he returned to Kew,
leaving the establishment in good working order on July 14.
   Owing to the cost of gas, mineral oil is used as the illuminant, as is
the case at Valencia Observatory also.
                           III.  Solar Observations.
   Sketches of Sun-spots have been made on 198 days, and the groups
numbered after Schwabe's method.
   Time Signals. — These have been received with great regularity all
through the year, failure in transmission having only occurred on
six days, on one of which the signal was duly received at the proper
time, but was not recorded, the chronograph clock having been
deranged by an accident.
   Transit Observations. — Solar and sidereal transits have been occa
sionally observed as a check on the signalled times.
   During the past summer 225 series of observations of the Sun's
actinic power have been made with Violle's actinometer, described
in the last Annual Report, upon the plan arranged by General
Strachey and Mr. Blanford.          Copies of the instrumental readings will
be transmitted to the Meteorological Office for discussion, the cost of
the experiments being defrayed by that establishment.
   By the kindness of Mr. C. Baker, of High Holborn, the Observa
tory has received the original sunshine record cards obtained by the
late Mr. Rand Capron, F.R.A.S., at his observatory near Guildford,
Surrey, during the years 1880 to 1887.
   The Winstanley radiograph, deposited at the Observatory in 1880,
was recently repaired at the suggestion of Mr. R. H. Scott, and set
up on the lawn.      Its action is, however, not considered satisfactory,
and it has   been  decided   to return it to the owner.
                          IV. Experimental Work.
   The Electrical Anemograph, after working on the staging erected
on the roof,    14 feet to the north of the Beckley instrument, and
recording by    means   of a battery composed of eighteen Fuller's cells,
was dismounted on July 22, and packed for storage.              During the
period   it was   at work,     the  traces  were  forwarded weekly to the
Meteorological Office.
   Oils. — At the request of the Meteorological Office, various speci
mens of lubricating oils have been applied to the gearing of the
anemograph with the view of determining the best for use under the
varying conditions to which it is exposed.
  Pendulums. — The swinging of the invariable pendulums at the
Royal Observatory, Greenwich, having been completed during the
past winter, the apparatus was dismounted and returned to Kew,

                       Report of the Kew  Committee.                  495
¦where  it is now stored awaiting farther disposal. A paper describing
the operations, and giving full details of the values of the vibration
numbers obtained at Kew and at Greenwich, has been contributed to
the Royal Society by General Walker (see 'Phil. Trans.,' vol. 181, A,
p. 537).      The result shows the number of vibrations made by a
seconds' pendulum in one day to be 0'64 greater at Kew than at
Greenwich.
   Cloud Photographs. — At the suggestion of General Strachey, Chair
man of the Meteorological Council, a new departure has been made in
the photography of clouds during the past year, with the view of
simplifying the operations of determining the height and velocity of
their movement.         Both cameras have been rigidly fixed on their
stands, with the axes of their lenses pointed directly to the zenith,
and photographs are now taken simultaneously of the area of the fiky
surrounding the zenith within a circle of a radius of about loJ.
 These photographs are superposed one on the other, so that the
two pictures shall appear to coincide, and a simple measurement of
 the  distance   between the images of the zenith points, which are
marked by intersecting lines, gives a means of readily determining
the height of the cloud above the surface of the ground.       A second
measurement made in like manner of the displacement of the zeniths
in a second pair of photographs taken after a given interval of time
serves to show the rate of travel of the cloud and the direction in
which it is moving at the instant of observation.      Twenty groups of
clouds, giving heights extending from l£ miles to 8 miles, and rates
of motion from 5 miles to 64 miles per hour, have been photographed
and measured in this manner during the past summer.
   A wooden frame, 12 feet in height, has been constructed, which is
occasionally erected above each of the cameras in order to verify the
position of their zenith points and the orientation of the cross lines on
the photographic plates.
                      V. Verification of Instruments.
   The following magnetic instruments       have been purchased on com
mission and their constants determined    : —
   1 Inclinometer, for Padre Denza, Rome.
   2 Collimator magnets for Professor Chistoni, Italy.
   1 Pair of dip needles for Hong Kong Observatory.
   1 Pair of small dip needles for Senhor Capello.
   A single dip needle repaired for Professor Mielberg.
   Sextant    Testing. — This branch of the work of the Verification
Department has been very active during the past year, 34G instruments
having been examined and certified, and tables of corrections
supplied.     Owing to the decay of the photographed scales of some of

496                    Hfjiort of    the  Kew Committee.
the collimators through damp, it was thought advisable to fit new and
improved scales to all of them.              On being furnished with the
necessar}- drawings,     Captain  Abney    kindly   had the set of photographs
made in his laboratory, and they were duly fittod to the collimators
by Mr. Adie.
   Care was taken       to replace them exactly in the same positions
as those occupied by the old scales, and after they were set up a re
determination of all the angles was very accurately made and recorded
for future  use.
   Steps havo recently been taken with a view of fitting electric lamps,
worked by a storage battery, to the instrument                  for testing the
parallelism of the dark shades, in order that this operation may be
performed in the absence of brilliant sunshine, a condition which
has hitherto rendered      it impossible to complete the examination          of
these shades in    cloudy weather.
   Sextant   Telescopes. — The Committee,         having had their attention
drawn to the low optical power of some of the telescopes supplied
with sextants submitted to them for examination, have given instruc
tions that no certificate of the highest class should be issued with anv
instrument if the telescope is not capable of distinguishing the
smallest angle exhibited by the division of the graduations on the are
of the sextant.
   The Hydraulic Press nsed for testing the behaviour of deep sea
thermometers under hydrostatic pressures of 3£ tons per square inch
is not capable of exerting the higher pressures now required by the
Admiralty for thermometers employed in the deeper soundings.
   The question of strengthening the press was submitted to Messrs.
Armstrong and Co., who reported that the cost of doing                so  would
exceed the sum the Committee              could  afford  to  expend   upon  the
apparatus.
   Normal Thermometers. — The Committee having considered the
desirability of having some thermometers accurately compared with
the hydrogen thermometer of the Conservatoire des Poids et Mesurea,
at Paris, instructed Mr. Whipple to convey to the director of that
office the  set   of  three   closely   graduated     mercurial  thermometers,
whose calibration errors were investigated             in 1879, by Professors
                                        '
T. E. Thorpe and Riicker (see British Association Report,' 1881,
p. 540), and also an alcohol thermometer graduated at Kew for the
special purpose of the comparison, its scale extending from —100° to
-J-90° Faht.     The examination of these thermometers lias now been
completed,    and   M. Benoit has sent his report upon them to Kew
Observatory.
   In addition to the usual instruments         submitted for verification, the
Committee have been called upon for special examination and reports
referring to the following articles : the Admiralty, for a Gun Directir

                      Report  of the Kew Committee.                497
Telescope, and new pattern Officer's Telescope ; the War Office for a
barometer supplied to the Netley Hospital ; and the makers for a new
Watkin's Clinometer, and Watkin's Aneroid with open scales ; as
well as various instruments for the Anglo-German Boundary Com
mission on the Gold Coast.
  List of Fees. — The Chairman of the Committee, with a view of
making the public more conversant with the systems of verification
and rating in use at the Observatory, prepared in the early part of the
                               " Tests and Certificates of the Kew Ob
year a pamphlet entitled
servatory." Of these 1,000 copies were printed, of which 200 have
been distributed to the principal opticians and instrument makers,
and others sold to the general public.
  The total number of other instruments compared in the past year
was as follows : —
          Air-meters                                            5
          Anemometers                                         14
          Aneroids                                            62
          Artificial horizons                                   3
          Barometers, Marine                                 134
                „        Standard                             44
                ,,       Station                               28
          Binoculars                                         336
          Compasses                                            17
          Hydrometers                                        364
          Inclinometers                                         1
          Magnets                                               2
          Navy Telescopes                                    152
          Rain Gauges                                          15
          Rain Measures                                       33
          Sextants                                           346
                      Shades                                  78
          Sunshine Recorders                                    3
          Theodolites                                           5
          Thermometers,     Arctic                            71
                   ,,       Avitreons or Immisch's           346
                   „        Chemical                          63
                            Clinical                       12536
                   „        Deep sea                          40
                   „         Meteorological                 4901
                   ,,        Mountain                         24
                   „         Solar radiation                  44
                   „         Standards                       100
          Unifilars                                             3
                                       Total               19770
  VOL. XI/VIII.                                               2 M

498                   Report   of  the  Kew Committee.
   Duplicate copies of corrections have been supplied in 63 cases.
   The number of instruments             rejected on account of excessive
error, or which from other causes did not record with sufficient
accuracy, was as follows : —
        Thermometers,     clinical                                  23
                „         ordinary meteorological                   20
        Various                                                    150
   3 Standard   Thermometers       have also been calibrated, and supplied
to 3 applicants   during the year.
   There are at present in the Observatory undergoing verification,
4  Barometers, 777 Thermometers, 51 Hydrometers, 14 Sextants, and
42 Telescopes.
   The increase in the number of sextants verified during the past
year has been considerable, 346 instruments of that kind having been
tested, whereas the greatest number in any previous year haa been
292.
                          VI. Rating of Watches.
   During the year 513 entries of watches for rating were made.
They were sent for testing in the following classes : —
  For class A, 450   ; class B, 49   ;  and class C, 9 ; subsidiary trial, 5.
Of these 128 failed to gain any award ; 10 passed with C, 41 with B,
329 with A certificates, and 34 of the latter obtained the highest,
class A  especially good.
   In the Appendix will be found statements giving the results of
trial of the 26 watches which obtained the highest numbers of marks
during the year, the highest position being attained by Mr. A. E.
Fridlander, of Coventry. His watch was a keyless double roller with
going barrel, which obtained       86*1  marks out of a possible  100.
   At the request of several watch makers, the Committee have slightly
modified the regulation for the granting of certificates for watches
which have been rated. The chief alteration is in the conditions
requisite for affixing the words especially good to a Class A certificate.
These are now simplified so that all watches which have 80 marks
and upwards awarded to them after trial are entitled to be charac
terised as especially good.
   Marine Chronometers. — Certificates showing the mean            daily rate
and the variations of rate at three different temperatures         have been
awarded to 3 marine chronometers after undergoing the 35 days' trial.
   An Astronomical Regulator for the Observatory at Akassa, Royal
Niger Company's Territory, has also been rated at temperatures of 60°
and 80° Faht.

                         Repoi-t of the Kew  Committee.                 499
                              VII.  Miscellaneous.
      Plans have been prepared and estimates obtained for the construc-
  tion of the necessary apparatus to enable the examination of photo
  graphic lenses for cameras to be prosecuted at the Observatory, with
  the view of granting certificates to the owners or purchasers of such
  articles.   It is in contemplation to adopt a system of examination of
  lenses, which shall provide, first, for a comparatively rough or cursory
  trial which will enable a person to form a general idea of the capabili
  ties of a lens, and, second, for a more lengthy and careful trial, for
  which a higher fee will be charged, which will give full particulars as
  to the various qualities an acquaintance with which is necessary to
  possess a full knowledge of the instrument. Captain Abney and other
  gentlemen have rendered the Committee much assistance in the
  practical arrangement of the details of this lens testing.
      Toronto University. — An appeal having been received from the
  librarian of this institution, recently destroyed by fire, for books to
  replace those lost, the Committee forwarded a parcel of such dupli
  cates as they could spare from the Observatory library, which has
  been duly acknowledged by the President of the College.
      On the occasion of the eleventh annual exhibition of the Royal
 Meteorological Society, which was devoted to illustrations of the ap
 plications of Photography to Meteorology, several instruments and
 photographs were exhibited, and Mr. Whipple read a paper on the
subject, illustrating it by means of the optical lantern.
      Building, 8fc. — A new window has been fitted to light the staircase
 leading into the Dome, a new stove fitted to the Library in place of
 the gas stove, and Fletcher's hot water heaters placed in both East
and West Rooms for use in verification operations.
     The West Room, Library, and Superintendent's rooms have been
painted and ceilings whitened.
     Prepared photographic paper has been procured and supplied to
 the Observatories at Aberdeen, Batavia, Colaba, Falmouth, Lisbon,
Toronto, Oxford, Mauritius, St. Petersburg, and Stony hnrst, as well
-as to the Meteorological Office for Valencia and Fort William.
     Anemograph sheets have been sent to Mauritius and Madras, and
blank forms for entry of observations, &c, distributed to various
applicants.
     Libranj. — During the year the library has received   as presents the
publications of —
    25   Scientific Societies and Institutions of Great Britain and Ire
          land, and
     118  Foreign and Colonial Scientific Establishments,    as well as  of
          numerous private individuals ;
                                                             2  m 2

500                  Report   of the Kew   Committee.
   The Librarian is still engaged in the preparation of a card cata
logue of the library, on the model of that of the Meteorological Office,
and has now completed over 1,400 cards, which contain the titles,
&c, of all works received by the Committee during the past eight
years, together with those of a like title which had been received
previously.
   The publications not yet catalogued formed part of Sir E. Sabine's
Magnetic Office collection, and are chiefly excerpts from foreign
publications and reports.
   Workshop. — The machine tools procured for the use of the Kew
Observatory    by grants from the Government Grant Fund or tho
Donation Fund have been duly kept in order.
                        Personal Establishment.
   The staff employed is  as follows : —
     G. M. "Whipple, B.Sc, Superintendent.
     T. W. Baker, Chief Assistant.
     H. McLaughlin, Librarian.
     E. G. Constable, Observations and Rating.
     W. Hugo, Verification Department.
     J. Foster        „             „
     T. Gunter        „             „
     W. J. Boxall, and seven other Assistants.
                   (Signed)          Fhancis Galton,
                                       Chairman of the Kew Committee.
   Novemler 29th, 1890.

Report of the Kew Committee. 501
502                                 Report of                 the         Kew Committee.
                         Total
                        Marka.                                    <2               35
                                                           Xi
                                                         <Xi           oooooo
                        0—100.
                             ¦uoijKStwd                  «    ec to Ci     ^   ao  ip        i. _                     r- in r- i» n x r* n i~                   -   p   I-   c    ^ "7*
      for
                       -moo aanjBJddiuax
      Ml
      award*
                                                            00 0DC300CM
                                                                  ip
                     ¦uoijisod jo eHirmp
                                                         IO X "f u- IC N   t
                                                         cocoeoeoeoeoeo eoeoeocoeocoeoeoeoeocoeoeoeoeoeoeoec so?**
      M                                                                                      o    — 00— cote—                          -                                —_ — ¦
                                                                               f"
                                                                                                                                                                                       '
                                  '09*1
                                                         m N pi O
      33               JO UOpVUUA A"[TBQ                 COCOCOCOCOCOCO
                                                                                             Sr2
                                                                                             •OCO                     r-CI-Or-r-OI-l-C XOXCI-C
                                                     ajh-0«)CO«iOi«                                                   o to CJ COCO <C      p     fI     -aONN                «S
                                                                                                                                                                              :
                     pun dn pup         >«  ii.
                                                     *+           +   ++
                                                                      1         1            +   7
                                                                                                        —
                                                                                                        "        -
                                                                                                                 +   T i       +7
                                                                                                                                       ©—©
                                                                                                                                       I
                                                                                                                                       I ++             I+      Mil
                                                                                                                                                       - -J _ _ ~ T-.
                                                     ,            — -~ •'. -~                eor*.                    £X AO                         _
                             lunpuad puo
                                                      ,
                       m,i}9{
                                                                                             oo -
                                                     z
                     dn iinipudd    u
                                    i-.u             SJ-OOO-NO
                                                     a
                                                                                                      !
                                                                                                      I m
                                                                                                      I               *N       O       ROC          —•      COO — CJ          C
      e2                                                               +       +             + +
                                            i                                                                                          +
                                                      I
                                                      I
                                                      I                    +    I                     t
                                                                                                      I                                I
                                                                                                                                       I
      O   g
                      iqSu javpudd          pu«                                                                                        r-
                                                                                                                                   I I 5    COOOltOr-      *Ort-
                     ¦InJUtlpUdd
                                     i;
                                     >
                                     >
                                     ,      w        oOOOO
                                                     *
                                                                         —— ©                                                      I   — © CO
                                                                                                                                       ^            notiio-:irtc -
                                    .(
                                                         +   1
                                                             I         +  ++    I                                                  I      +   ++    + ++    1                1
                             ¦dnrgip pun                      P   PI   « t- d       00                                                     • CO-tO^cox                  ——M —
                     dn jirepuad    >.\\
                                    u
                                    > jag
                                       i;' ¦>[v
                                                     y ©©o © ©©
                                                              >                 c        r       ?                                     ISC
                            JO oStroqo               KOOOOOOO                                ooooo                         ©o      o   © © © ©©o©o©ooo
                     .1
               JOJ   i
                                                                  —                          i^1n-s>iJo^^»'ifj©ioto<f;to^f,i^tp>p'Oi»:i^;c3
               jC[IT9PJO UOpWJJHA       I.
                                        '       *k   j   ©    oo o o           ©©            ©oooooooooooooooooo©
                     s >>
                        •      _    ¦*
                      oad
                        I      k   c >-Je            8?— © ©
                                                     z                         —i ©          0000«OOfJOON»0-'OtlOfJO«H
                                                     « + +        I    +
                                                                           +
                                                                           +      +       I        +  I          +    +
                                                                                                                           +
                                                                                                                           +
                                                                                                                           +           +   I    +   +   + +     +   +   I
                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                           :
                                                                           i
                                                                           iA
                                                                           i E 1         w
                                                                                    :ao
                                                                                                 g.b., bar-1 s
                                                                           : ! :
                                                                           :   :
                                                                                                             •
                                                             ¦„owiooo^oroooooooooooooo
                                                             — 4,— — O « 4)*S c.5 « ^ 8 O C 41« 0C*r,t»'3O.0.2        B
                                                         inftJ35QftJ33iZ«                     8         Q        SB  3     8
                                                                                                                           &
                                                                                                                           8
                                                                                                                           8               SB
                                                                                                                                            8    9
                                                                                                                                                 S      A       8 h 88™
                                                         ©-*-ooo»t-oot~oo                         to i« to     ci
                                                                                                  oi — c o>o * '
                                                                                                                      c-       »*¦ c.      NONftg        r~oo cc
                                                         to — — irco — —
                                                                                                        to CO                              'x; X- ©
                                                                                                                                                  ^    c~.~ ~ n CO^ —
                       5
                        E05
                               S
                                                         S??^P.w5!Siao2                           2
                                                                                                  ©S
                                                                                                  m
                                                                                                     ©S c» !2 -?. .i¦
                                                                                                               COtC .X
                                                                                                        - o ci u-:-i       1
                                                                                                                                           tM
                                                                                                                                           i
                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                    cc
                                                                                                                                                        :
                                                         B q C _ B r- v
                                                                           °°
                                                                                                                                                                        if |5
                                                                                        :
                                                         E    c   S3               R §
                       I|                            .    -            C C     g    D   «
                                                                                                                                                                        "
                                                                                                                                                                              ;,Rb
                                                                                                                                                       *. 9 >.               fl    -
                                                                                                                                                                                  ¦=
                                                                                                                                                ^== "i =
                                                                                                                                                Si fcS          =i:~-=s
                                                                                                                                                                 oil
                                                                                                                                                                5            s    5    .
                                                         l
                                                              •    .    .JoS

Report of the Kew Committee. 503
504                    Report   of the Kew      Committee.
                                APPENDIX II.
List of Instruments, Apparatus, Ac, the Property of the Kew Com
  mittee, at the present date out of the custody of the Superintendent,
  on Loan.
      To whom lent.                            Articles.
  Or.  J. Symons, F.E.S.  Portable Transit Instrument     .
  The Science and Art     The articles specified in the list in the Annual
      Department, South     Eeport for 1876, with the exception of the
      Kensington.           Photo-Heliograph,       Pendulum    Apparatus,
                            Dip-Circle, Unifllar, and Hodgkinson's Acti-
                            nometer.
  Lieutenant A. Gordon.   Unifllar Magnetometer        by Jones, No. 102,
      B.N.                  complete, with three Magnets and Deflection
                            Bar.
                          Dip-Circle, by Barrow, one Pair of Needles,
                            and Magnetizing Bars.
                          One Bifilar Magnetometer.
                         One Declinometer.
                         Two Tripod Stands.
  Professor W. Grylls     Unifllar Magnetometer, by Jones, No.         101,
      Adams, F.E.S.         complete.
                          Pair 9-inch Dip-Needles with Bar Magnets      .. .
  Professor  O.J. Lodge,  Unifllar Magnetometer, by Jones,        No. 106,
      F.E.S.                complete.
                          Barrow Dip-Circle, No. 23, with two Needles,
                              and Magnetizing Bars.
                          Tripod Stand.
  Captain W. de W.        Mason's Hygrometer, by Jones
      Abney, F.E.S.
  Prof. T. E. Thorpe,    Tripod Stand   .
      F.E.S.
  Lord Eayleigh, F.E.8.   Standard Barometer (Adie, No. 055)

                On  the Magnetic Permeability  of Rocks,  8fc.         505
 " On    the   Relation between the Magnetic Permeability of
       Rocks and Regional Magnetic Disturbances."              By A. W.
       ROcker, M.A., F.R.S. Received May 30,— Read June 19,
       1890.
    The investigation, of which an account is given in this paper, was
 undertaken with the object of throwing light on the causes of local
 magnetic disturbances.     The two main theories which have hitherto
 been proposed attribute local perturbations     of the needle to earth
currents and to magnetic rocks respectively.
    In the Bakerian Lecture for 1889 (' Phil. Trans.,' A. 1890, p. 53),
Dr. Thorpe and 1 compared the directions of the disturbing magnetic
forces found by us to exist near Melton Mowbray and Reading with
the results of a survey of the local earth currents made in the neigh
bourhood of those places under the direction of Mr. Preece, F.R.S.
No connexion could be traced between either the intensities or the
directions   of the currents and the magnetic forces, and the result of
the investigation was thus opposed to the view that they are cause
and effect. As far as I am aware, however, no attempt has hitherto
been made to determine       whether the mere presence in the earth's
magnetic field of such iron-bearing rocks as actually exist, and which
must certainly produce magnetic disturbances, suffices to account for
such disturbances as are actually observed. This enquiry is obviously
complementary to the comparison of the disturbing forces with the
earth currents in the same neighbourhood, but the necessary data
have only lately been accumulated.      The recent magnetic survey has
tor the first time placed at our disposal facts as to the magnitude of
the disturbing magnetic forces in the United Kingdom, and the
measurements described      below give us some idea of the order of the
magnitude of the permeabilities of magnetic rocks.       The present in
vestigation is thus divided into two parte, viz. : —
    (1.) A determination of the magnetic susceptibility of a number of
rock specimens.
    (2.) An enquiry as to the order of the magnitude of the magnetic
disturbances which the presence of such rocks in the earth's maguetic
field would produce.
    The first part has been carried out by Mr. Hightield, Assoc.
N.S.S., and Mr. Jarratt, Scholar Elect of Trin. Coll., Cambridge,
both of whom are students in the Physical Laboratory of the Normal
School of Science and Royal School of Mines.         I am under a great
obligation to these gentlemen for their share in the work. They
constructed all the special apparatus required, and have made all the
measurements recorded in this paper, and I am indebted to them not
only for care and skill, but also for several very useful suggestions.

 506        Prof. Riicker.     On Hie Magnetic Permeability        of
   In  selecting  a method,    it was important to     be   able to deal  with
small fragments of rock, and also to avoid the necessity of having to
shape them into definite forms.         The magnetic properties of a dis
trict can only   be ascertained   by the examination of a large number of
specimens, and this would be practically impossible unless the above
 conditions were fulfilled.      Great accuracy, though desirable, is not
equally important. Different specimens of the same rock differ so
widely    in their magnetic       qualities that    a  comparatively rough
measurement is sufficient.       It will,  however,   be seen in the sequel
that the observations made are in satisfactory agreement.
   To meet these requirements the following scheme was devised. A
series of standard magnetic fluids were made by suspending magnetic
oxide of iron in various proportions of glycerine. The susceptibilities
of these mixtures were determined absolutely by the apparatus
described below, and specimens of the rocks were compared with
them by means of Professor Hughes' induction balance.                 For this
purpose,   equal  volumes   of a  mixture   were placed   in two  similar test-
tubes, which were inserted in the cups of the balance, and silence was
obtained by means of a compensator.             The rock to be tested
                                     Fig. 1.
now immersed in one of the mixtures, and an equal volume of liquid
having been abstracted, the zero was redetermined.              Two mixtures
were thus found, to the susceptibilities of which that of the rock
 under experiment was intermediate.          The compensator used, though
identical in principle, differed in form from that employed by Professor
Hughes. The primary current passed through two solenoids wound
in opposite directions about the two ends of a tube. Over these
another larger tnbe could be moved in either direction, and round it
another solenoid was wound which formed part of the secondary cir
cuit. The position of this secondary solenoid was read off on a milli
metre scale attached to the exterior of the inner tube.               The two
primary coils tended to produce induced currents in opposite direc
tions, and thus, by moving the secondary coil in one direction or the
other, silence could be obtained.
   If *j and xa are the distances (measured in opposite directions)
through which the compensator had to be moved to produce silence
when the specimen was introduced into the first and second liquid

                Bocks and Regional Magnetic Disturbances.                               507
respectively, and if k,   and     are the susceptibilities of the rock
                                   fcj,            k2
and the two liquids,    may be calculated from the formula
                              k
or                                 =
                              k           k1   +   --^-x(k,-k1).
     My thanks are due to Professor Judd, F.R.S., for the large number
of rock specimens which he has placed at my disposal.      Nearly all
which have been used have been provided by him. This aid has
been especially important from the fact that the attention which he
has paid to the geology of the West of Scotland has made his
collections  rich in basaltic rocks gathered from that district,
which     within the area of the recent magnetic survey, and
         is                                                        re                  is
markable for the magnitude, not only of the local, but also of the re
gional, magnetic disturbances of which     the seat. He has also been
                                                          it is
good enough to have sections made of a number of the rocks examined
by the induction balance.    Some of the results thus obtained are
referred to below, but we hope to extend this part of the enquiry in
the immediate future.
              Part    — On
                     I.            the Magnetic         Susceptibility   of   Bocks.
   The apparatus used for determining the absoluto susceptibilities of
the mixtures is shown in fig.                  2.
  Primarily     consisted of a magnet attached to a mirror which was
               it
delicately suspended in a glass case by means of a quartz fibre.  Two-
large solenoids wound upon glass tubes were placed at equal distances
east and  west of the needle.   A smaller tube, which could be filled
with any of the mixtures, was arranged so as to slide into and out of
either solenoid.  The deflections when the tube was inserted first
into one solenoid and then into the other were noted, and from these
the susceptibility of the mixture could be calculated when the strength
of the field in which the magnet was suspended was known. The
necessity for the determination of this datum was obviated by also
deflecting the magnet by a small solenoid, the moment of which was
calculated from the number of coils, the length, and the strength of
the current flowing through it. In the figure, M represents the
magnetometer, and SS the two large solenoids into which the tube
containing the liquid     capable of sliding. The ends of the solenoids
                              is
projected  for some    or 7 cm. beyond the ends of the tube, which was
                                  8
always brought up to the same position within the solenoids by means
of fiducial marks. The sensitiveness of the magnetometer was adjusted
by a control magnet placed above it, acting so as to reduce the earth's

508        Prof. Riicker.    On   the Magnetic Permeability  of
                                   Fio. 2.
field.  Iu this way   an oscillation-period of 25 seconds could be ob
tained, although it was found in practice to be unnecessary to increase
it beyond about 10 seconds. At k there is a key which divides the
current, part of which goes through the two large solenoids SS, flow
ing in the same direction in each, and thence through the galvano
meter G back to the battery. Another part goes through the
reversing key K to the small deflecting solenoid s and thence through
the Post Office bridge P back to the battery.    The resistance used in
the Post Office bridge was about 200 ohms, while that of the main
circuit was about 10 ohms, so that the amount of current shunted
was comparatively small ; nevertheless, to prevent any error being
thus caused, another shunt circuit, of resistance R, equal to that in
the Post Office bridge, was introduced, through which the current
passed when the small solenoid was not in use.
   As the effects produced by the two principal solenoids on the mag
netometer were not exactly balanced when they were placed at equal

                  Rocks and Regional Magnetic Disturbances.                 509
distances from it, it was found necessary to introduce another small
compensating solenoid (C) which could be so adjusted as to neutralise
the residual effect.
   The mirror was raised sufficiently above the horizontal plane
through the axes of tho two solenoids to permit a beam of light being
thrown upon it and reflected to a scale.               An experiment was per
formed as follows :        —
   The small solenoid circuit s was first thrown out of connexion, and
the main circuit, together with the shunt R, put in.             The zero read
ing, as given by the magnetometer, having been taken, the apparatus
was so arranged that the zero did not alter when the current was put
on, or off, or reversed.          The tube was now inserted into each of the
solenoids in turn, the deflections were noted, and afterwards the zero
was again taken to show that no change had occurred during the
experiment.          The shunt R was then thrown out, and the circuit con
taining    the   small     solenoid « put in, the resistance in the Post Office
bridge having been previously arranged so as to give a deflection of
much the same magnitude as that due to the introduction of the tube
containing the mixture of magnetic oxide and glycerine.                 Knowing
the deflection which is given by a solenoid of known moment, and
that produced by the introduction of a definite amount of mixture
under the same conditions as regards the sensibility of the magneto
meter, we are able to calculate the susceptibility of the mixture, as
follows : —
   Let   26 be the      length of the tube.
         f,  ?/, £" the co-ordinates    of the centre of the magnet referred
                        to   three   rectangular axes, passing through the
                        middle point of the axis of the tube, parallel to its
                        length, and perpendicular to its length in the hori
                        zontal and vertical directions respectively.
            a, ffj,  the distances from the centre of the magnet of the feet
                        of the perpendiculars let fall from the ends of the
                        tube on the horizontal plane through the magnet.
    It is then easy to show that if the length of the magnet is small as
 compared with a and </, and if p be the strength of the pole induced at
 the end of the tube,
                                             Y.d
                                 p ~
                                       (Md+2N   . v . D)'
 whore    F is    the strength of the field in which the magnet is placed,
          d the       deflection   produced by the introduction      of the tube
                 containing the liquid into the solenoid,
          D the distance of the scale from the magnet,

510         Prof. Riicker.          On tlie Magnetic Permeability of
                    1                   1
and       N
               («3+rs)»          (»is+ri2)}
With the distances actually adopted in one experiment,
             M = -0000273,                d-ClOcm.,
             N =    0 000170,         ,   =   17-0 cm.,    D = 103 cm.
Hence, the term      M . d is small, and may be neglected, and,          therefore,
                                                Fd
                                   P =    2 . N .v .D
   If I be the  intensity of magnetisation of the liquid,
      A the area of the tube,
      n the number of turns per cm. in the solenoid,
      C the strength of the current in absolute units,
      k the susceptibility of the liquid,
                             I                          V.d
                      4.7r.n.C             8.jr.n.C.N.jj.D.A
¦where  8.»-.n.N.ij.D.Ais               constant for any one position of the ap
paratus, and =     Nj say*   ;
 ,    ,                                   =
                                                F.d
                                                 —
therefore                               k
                                              ^
   The solenoids were practically identical in construction, and if
   — d2  be the algebraical difference of the deflections right and left
when the tube is introduced into the two solenoids,
                                     K~
                                            2.NX.C'
   To determine     F  the auxiliary solenoid was used.             It was placed
perpendicular     to the axis of the magnet, which bisected it.                 Its
length being   2a,  number of turns per cm. ri, area A', the distance of
its poles from the centre of the magnet it, and the deflections being
d\ and a"3 to the left and to the right respectively, when the current
C circulated through it,
                    _8
                    ~~
                           .  a . »'  .  C  . A'   . D
                                u\d\-d'3)
   itence,        *~         '                '      "   "               '
                       2r       (d\-d\)          C     n   A           N

               Rocks and Regional Magnetic Disturbances.                          511
or, since the currents varied inversely as the resistances of the princi
pal and shunt circuits,
                                   k  _= RB —dl—a\
                                              w      «-
                                                i— d„
                                             a 1"
where    B is a constant depending on the dimensions and resistances
of the various parts of the apparatus.
    In one series of experiments, chosen haphazard for illustration, the
values of the different quantities were as follows : —
       <r = 1716 cm.,             ffj  = 40-31 cm.,             £  =   37 cm.  ;
therefore   N =    0 0001696.
          The resistance of the principal circuit =              10'9 ohms,
                              „      shunt           „      =   141      „
                ri =  30-81,                     n  =   11-25,
               A' =     1-5836 sq. cm.,         A =      6 7424 sq. cm.,
                 a = 13   0  cm.,                if =   17'1 cm.,
                                   « =    22 61 cm.,
                (t^-dg) = 4-3 cm.,             (cZ'x-d's)    =.  8-5 cm.  ;
therefore                           k  = 0-00158.
    In each experiment     a deflection was the mean         of two readings taken
with the current direct, and reversed when the tube was in each
solenoid, and with the current direct and reversed in the case of the
auxiliary solenoid.      The effect of the earth's magnetic field was thus
eliminated.
    Various possible sources of error had to be investigated.                 In the
first place, the suspended magnetic oxide might gradually settle in the
tubes, or, under the influence of the current, the particles might tend
to set themselves with their axes parallel to the axis of the solenoid,
as in Sir William Grove's well-known lecture experiment.                        These
effects were most to be feared in the case of the strong mixtures. It
 was found that if the magnetic oxide were dried it caked and it was
impossible afterwards to suspend it in a state of fine and equal
 division in the glycerine. Hence the mixtures were made by ming
 ling known volumes of one standard mixture of magnetic oxide and
 water with glycerine.       Thus the stronger mixtures were the more
aqueous,    and  therefore   the   less viscous.       To investigate the possible
error due to settling, the following experiments were made : —
    The mixtures were allowed to remain in the tube for 30 minutes :
no difference in the deflection could be detected in the case of the
 weaker mixtures ; but for the strongest we obtained the following
 results.   The deflections are throughout measured in cm.

.512         Prof. Riicker.        On    the Magnetic Permeability         of
               Zero                                                   000
               Deflection with tube in                                7'31
                     „         „       „      after 30 mins..    .    7"00
               Zero                                                   000
               Deflection with tube        in                         8"38
                      „        „       „      after 30 mins..   .     8"11
   During the first few minutes no appreciable falling off was observed,
so that, as the time        required for an experiment does not exceed a
minute or two, any error arising from this cause may be neglected.
Care was also taken to rotate the tubes frequently, and to empty them
and pour the liquid in again at short intervals. In order to test the
accuracy of the whole arrangement, several series of experiments
were made with the apparatus set up in different positions, and the
values obtained were such as to show that no serious discrepancy
existed.     In the following table the fractions in the first column are
the ratios of the volumes of the standard                    mixture of water and
magnetic     oxide    to that  of  the    glycerine,     and they may therefore be
called the strengths of the mixtures. In the other columns are the
susceptibilities     obtained in each case with a completely different
arrangement of the apparatus.
            a =  Strength.          r.                K.              K.
                   *             0 00126          0-00115          0 00125
                   1                                    144            137
                    1
                   1                 158                153            155
                   \                                    174            168
                   i                 218                214            209
    Six weeks after the last of the preceding series had been taken,
another set of experiments was made in order to test the invariability
of the magnetic properties of the mixtures.                   No change whatever
could be detected, as will be seen from the following table of
 results : —
                           Strength = *.             K.
                                 *               0 -00120
                                 i                    137
                                 i                    159
                                                      163
                                 1
                                 1                    208

                liocks and Regional Magnetic Disturbances.                    513
If  now we take       the means of the           results of Ihese four series of
experiments as giving the values of the susceptibilities, and divide
each number by the strength of the mixture, the ratio is found to be
nearly constant.        It must be remembered that errors which cause
deviations from the mean value are in part, and probably in large
part, due to uncertainty as to the exact composition of each mixture.
As the magnetic oxide settles quickly in water, the amounts added to
the glyceiine were probably only approximately proportional to the
volumes used ; but, as the susceptibility of each mixture is absolutely
determined without reference to its supposed composition, this will
not affect the accuracy of the results.
                  Strength =   *.
                                  |
                                     Menu value of k.
                           i            0-001215         0 00607
                           |                 1303             627
                            1                1562             625
                           |                 1683             589
                           J                 2122             637
   The numbers in the last column are consistent with the view that
the susceptibility of any mixture varies directly as the percentage of
magnetic oxide which it contains.                  The matter may be further
tested by means of the sets of experiments described immediately
below, in which the susceptibilities of three of the liquids (including
the weakest and the strongest mixtures) were again measured.                  The
mean results are as follows :        —
                                                             K
                 Strength -*  ».    Menu vulnc of  <e.
                                                             7
                         i             0 00124           0- 00620
                        is
                        i                   159                tm
                        i                   204                612
   In this case the strongest mixture gives the smallest result. On
the whole, then, and for the purposes of this investigation, the values
of */« must be considered as independent of the strength of the
mixture. Any difference which exists could only be certainly de
tected by a very careful determination of the quantity of magnetic
oxide present in the unit of volume in each case.                  Since this law
holds good within the limits of the series of liquids the suscepti-
   vol. xlviii.                                                         2 S

514         Prof. Rucker.         On the Magnetic Permeability   of
bilities of which could be accurately determined, it may be safely
inferred that for weaker mixtures, at any rate, it will still be true,
and so a number of mixtures weaker than one-fifth were prepared,
and their susceptibilities calculated by proportion from those of the
stronger ones. Values so obtained will, however, be subject to the
error of mixing.
    Finally, a series of experiments, referred to above, was made to
 determine whether the permeabilities of the mixtures varied with the
 magnetic    force.       The susceptibilities obtained when 2, 3, and 0
 Grove's cells were used in turn are given in the following table:
                                                                      —
               Streugtli.     Six cells.  Three cells. Two eelU.
                    i         0-00122       000127      0-00123
                    i                           1(S2        150
                    i              209          19!)        203
    The sums of the significant figures in the three columns are 495,
 488, and 476 respectively, thus indicating a slight increase of per
 meability with the magnetic force. The differences between the in
 dividual observations are, however, too great to allow us to rely on
 this result, and the table can only be considered as proving that no
 serious error will occur if we assume that the permeabilities of the
 mixtures are independent of the magnetic force.
                                 — Experiments made afterwards confirmed
    [Added Sept. 12, 1830.
 this view and extended the range over which its accuracy was tested.
 The weakest field employed was about twice the earth's field in the
 United Kingdom ]
    It would have been difficult to obtain accurate results with a
 weaker field, but as the law of proportionality between the mag
 netic force and the induction appears to hold very approximately
 for forces between 5'0 and 1*7 C.G.S. units, it is probable that
 it is also valid for smaller values. It is true that Silow (' Wiede
 mann's Annalen,' vol. 11, 1880, p. 330) has stated that the
 susceptibility of ferric chloride is a maximum when the inducing
 force is about 0"4 C.G.S. unit, and that for that value it is between
 two and three times as great as for fields at strengths such as
 those at which we have experimented, but the change in a range
 of magnetic force much less thau l-0 to 5'0 was very marked.         Thus,
 between forces of about 1'4 and 2'5, the susceptibility altered by
  about 13 per cent.         An effect such as this could not possibly have
  escaped our notice, and there can be no doubt that for forces such as
  those with which we have dealt the susceptibility of magnetite changes

               Rock* and Regional Magnetic Disturbances.                     515
very slowly, and that tbe variation is not sufficient to affect seriously
the argument of this paper.
   We now turn to the method of comparing the susceptibilities of the
rock specimens with those of the liquid by means of Professor
Hughes' induction balance.
   In the first place it was necessary to make certain that the effects
observed were due only to the permeabilities, and not to the conduc
tivities, of the bodies under investigation. The weaker liquids were
practically non-conductors, but the stronger ones conducted feebly.
When, however, a solution of salt in water, of rather greater conduc
tivity than the strongest mixture, was introduced into the balance,
 which had previously been adjusted, no sound whatever could be
detected, thereby proving that the very different effects obtained with
the magnetic oxide were not, in any way, due to Foucault currents in
the mixture. Two of the rocks which produced the greatest effect in
 the balance were also chipped out into the form of horse-shoes,
 and by dipping the ends into two mercury cups or into two cups
 containing acid and water, they were used to complete circuits, in
 which a mirror galvanometer was included.            They appeared, as thus
 tested, to be non-conductors.      We are, therefore, confident that the
 experiments are not vitiated by Foucault currents set up within
 either the liquids or the rocks.
    The first test applied to the method was to measure by the aid of
 the balance the susceptibilities   of the different mixiures relatively to
 each other.    Thus in the case of three liquids a, b, and c, say, the sus
 ceptibility of b was found by using the values of tbe susceptibilities of
 a and c which had been obtained          by the absolute method.          In the
 following table the numbers thus obtained are compared with those
 given directly by the absolute method : —
                                     k measured by —
                             Magnetometer        Induction
                                method.           balance.
                       5        0-00139           0 00135
                           !
                                     lfi8              172
                       t   I         212               20S
                           I
    The agreement between the last two columns is sufficient to justify
 the induction balance method.          The strengths of the fields in the
 balance were different from those employed in the absolute method,
 and Foucault currents might affect the results.           It is clear, however,
 that neither of these possible         causes of difference       produces   any
                                                                    •I N 2

516          Prof. Riicker.       On       the   Magnetic Permeability       of
appreciable error.   Even if the magnetic force and the induction are
not strictly proportional, the ratio of the permeabilities of the liquids
is, to the degree of accuracy attained, the same in the balance as in
the solenoid.
   Finally, the method was    applied to a specimen of basalt which
Professors  Thorpe     ami         had brought from the Island of
                               Riiokcr
Canna, in the West of Scotland.   A piece of this had been cut into the
form of a rectangular bar, and its magnetic properties had been in
vestigatedby Dr. Hoffert.   His experiments are described in the
publishedaccount of the magnetic survey ("Phil. Trans.,' A, 1890).
The permanent magnetisation was determined by three methods, and
the susceptibility was found from the times of vibration when
the bar was suspended in a known magnetic field with the directions
of permanent and induced magnetisation alternately coincident and
opposed.  Dr. Hoffert found that the value of «c was about 0"0015.
Unfortunately, the particular bar used by him has been mislaid, but
we have measured the permeability of another fragment of the same
specimen, and find —
                                       k   = 000132.
Observations to be described below prove that differences such as this
exist between specimens of the same rock.       We do not therefore
regard these numbers as giving any test of the accuracy either of
Dr. Hoffert's or our own observations, but the agreement between
them is sufficient to prove that there can be no doubt as to the order
of the magnitudes of the quantities under discussion.
  The range over which the instrument could be employed was
between susceptibilities about five times greater and ten less than
that of Canna basalt, i.e., from about 000792 to 0-00013.       The
higher of these values could only be obtained by extrapolation, ns
liquids of such great permeability could only be formed by using so
small a quantity of glycerine that the magnetic oxide settled too
quickly to enable ns to obtain reliable results.    In the tables given
below, the statement that the magnetic susceptibility of a substance
is zero means only that it is distinctly less than that of the weakest
liquid employed, i.e., than about 0*00013.      The details of a single
experiment  are given by way   of  example.    The readings of the com
pensator scale are in centimetres.
                                       Experiment.
   Equal volumes of the liquid of strength 2/9 were placed in                     test-
tubes in the two arms of the balance.
                              {101
                                                    Meau = 10   11   = z,.
                                jy.Q
                          10-15

             Rocks and Regional Magnetic Disturbances.                                517
  A specimen of Canna basalt was placed in the left-hand test-tube,
and liquid abstracted until the volume was the same as before.
                       r    9-8
       Readings   ...I      9 9                      Moan =     9 83   = r,   ;
                       L    98
therefore                   x,    =   (zx
                                            — »-,)   = 028.
  Kqnal volumes of the liquid of strength 1/5 were now taken.
                        (-1015
                       J *99'                                           =
       Zero readinj*8<
                    °                                Mean = 10 06           Zo.
                          100
                       ]
                       Lio-2
  The same specimen of rock was now placed in the left-hand test-
tube, after having been carefully washed and dried.
                               jj^
                                                     Mean = 1008 = r,.
                             {10-0
                            101
                             Xi = (*,-»•,)            = 0-02.
  Hence, by the formula given above,
                                  K   = 0-001227.
   On the whole then, we think that the various tests which have
been   applied to it prove that the method employed fulfils the
required conditions very satisfactorily. It not capable of giving
                                                           is
results of the last degree of accuracy, but     enables us to measure
                                                           it
quickly and certainly, with only a small percentage error, tho per-
meabilitiiies of rock specimens without the labour and expense
involved in shaping them into definite geometrical forms.
   The method, too, has the advantage thnt, when once the permeabili
ties of the standnrd*Miquids are determined, the apparatus can be
used anywhere.    If therefor*     were desirable to institute
                                       it                       close             a
comparison   between    the magnetic disturbances and the magnetic
permeabilities of* the rocks in given district, and
                                      a              were important    it
that the investigator should become at once acquainted with his
results,it   would be quite practicable to transport the apparatus
required to the scene of the investigation, and to determine the mag
netic properties of tho specimens in any convenient room within a
few hours of their collection.
  Our observation*     on    rouk     specimens         may be divided into three

518        Prof. Riicker.     On the Magnetic   Permeability  of
groups, according as they were (a) non-magnetic,        (y9) magnetic but
not basaltic, (7) basaltic.
   Of the first group, we tried a number of specimens, many of which
were a priori certain not to be magnetic.        Some of them, however,
were just as likely to be conductors as the magnetic rocks; and the
fact, therefore, that they have been tried, and produce no effect,
strengthens the view that the measurement, of the permeabilities was
not affected by the conductivities of the specimens.         Among those
submitted to experiment were limestones, sandstones, mica- and horn
blende-schists, granite with tourmaline, red granite, trachyte, felsite.
rhyolite, gabbro, muscovite granite, luxullianite, various diorites, ami
haematite.
   Two specimens of Archaaan gneiss, brought by Dr. Thorpe from
Loch Maddy, in the Outer Hebrides, were found to be practically non
magnetic.
   We have also, through the kindness of Professor Jndd, had tin-
opportunity of testing the specimens of Silurian rocks and red
sandstones obtained from the Palioozoic ridge by deep borings near
London.      Fragments from Kentish Town, Richmond, Meux's
Brewery, and Ware were tried and found to be non-magnetic.
   Turning next to specimens of other than basaltic rocks which were
found to be magnetic, we obtained the following results : —
                                                        1
                                                K.
                                            0 -0007U
                                                   94
                                                   39
                                                   39
                      Tourmaline granite .         24
                                                  104
   It will be noticed  that several of these are rocks of the same kind
as those of which other specimens were found to be non-magnetic.
This is an example of the fact that the permeabilities of different
 portions of the same rock are very various, ahd that no conclusion
can be drawn unless a large number of specimens have been
examined.
   Special attention having boen given in the recent magnetic survey
to the magnetic disturbances produced by the Malvern Hills, it was
thought that a detailed investigation of their magnetic properties
would be interesting.       Mr. Highfield, therefore, paid a visit to
Malvern for the purpose of collecting specimens.           The position at
which any specimen was found was marked on the spot on an
Ordnance map carried for the purpose.        It is, perhaps, hardly neces

              Rocks and Regional Magnetic Divturbances.                             5 HI
sary to reproduce this map hero, but notes are               appended to the table
given below which indicate the point on the                 range from which the
specimen was obtained.          Care was taken that         the specimens should
not be weathered.         It may be well to add that        the Malvern Hills are
a range of  hornblendic rocks, bounded on the east by a great fault,
which divides them from the red marls of the Valley of the' Severn.
On the western side the igneous rocks emerge from under Wenlock
   No. of                                                                      Mean
                                 Position of station.
  specimen.                                                                 value of k.
      In
        b    Quarry at North Malvern, near, the tank      .
        c
             On the crest at the extreme north end of the range
      3',
        b    On the ridge between the peaks of the North        Hill.
      in
             Near to the summit of the North       Hill .
        b
      5a
             Near St. Ann's Well
        A
      6a
             Xenr to the lop of the Worcestershire      Beacon.
        £
      7a
             Ncnr to the footpath, considerably below and a little
        b
                to the south of the top of the Worcestershire Beacon
      8n     On the ridge about \ mile south of the top of the Wor
        b       cestershire  Beacon
      9a
             On the ridge above the railway tunnel
        b
    10a
             In    cutting through the ridge above Malvern Wells
        i        a                                                    . . .
     11a     On the ridge nearly due     east of Brand Hall (Ordnance
        b       map)
    12a
             On tho ridge on the north side of the Ledbury       Road..   .
        b
     13      On the Herefordshire Hencon, about a furlong south
                east of the encampment
     14      On the western side of the Herefordshire Beacon, about
                300 yards south of 13
     IS      At the south end of the Herefordshire Beacon, above
                 Hill Farm

520          Prof. Riicker.         On the ifagnetic Permeability        of
limestone and Silurian rocks, which are heut upwards on their flanks.
The collection of specimens was composed entirely of the crystalline
rocks: it was begun at the extreme north end of the range, and
continued      as  far south     as   the Herefordshire Beacon, a distance of
about    5  miles.    In most    cases two specimens were taken at each spot,
and in the table these are indicated             by the same number followed by
different letters.
    As the susceptibilities of the racks varied         so considerably,   Professor
Judd was good enough to have sections made of                  some of those whieh
differed    most widely.       The following report made by him shows :i
satisfactory      agreement between the indications of the induction
balance and microscopic          examinations     : —
  Specimen.         >c                                Remarks.
             '
      12a       0 '00139     Luirge  amount of magnetite, well crystallised ; much
                                pyrites.
             1
      10a             113  | Rather smaller quantity of magnetite, and in smaller
                               crystals.
      11a               30 i Magnetite, small in quantity, and sporadically dis
                                tributed.
       7c               12   Magnetite, Tery small in quantity (possibly only
                                titanoferrite present).
      126    ;     zero    I Magnetite, very small in quantity (possibly only
                                titanoferrite present).
    As was to bo expected, basio rocks proved to be the most strongly
magnetic ; but it is well at once to emphasise the fact that powerful
permanent magnetisation              affords no proof of high permeability.
Thus a specimen of rock from the Peak of the Island of Ascension,
kindly supplied to us for examination by Captain Creak, F.R.S..
strongly attracted and repelled the pole of a compass needle. Its
susceptibility, however, was only moderately large, being O00122.
    We have collected in the following table the results of our measure
ments on basic rocks       : —

                            Rocks and Regional Magnetic Disturbance*.                                           521
                                                                                                      Mean
         Specimen           of —                         Locality.                    it.
                                                                                                   value of k.
                                                                                 0-00113
        Eustatite-andesite                .                                              59
                                                                                        134
        Porphyritic         basalt       . .                                            109
                                                                                        110
                                                                                         47
        Basalt                                                                           45
                                                                                        118
                                                                                            27
                                                                                                      0 00024
    {     :;            ::::::::::::                                                        21    1
                                                                                        097
                                                                                        747
                                                                                        240
                                                                                                  1 0-00561
    |
        Fine-grained gabbro
                                                                                        553
                                               Deer Forest, Ardnamurehan   . .          660
                                                    II               II                 632
                                                                                                            00120
                                                    ii               ii                 307
                                                                                                      j>0
1       l                :::::::::::                ii               ii    •
                                                                           •             83
                                                                                 0   -00147
j       Porphyritic          basalt   .   .                                             231
        Olivine                 „        .
                                         .                                               74
               n                tt                                                      184
                                                                                        209
\       Porphyritic          basalt . .                                                  61
                   ,,        dolerite                                                   155           ¦0 00163
                                                                                        113
                                                                                        100
                                                                                        140
                                                                                        114
        Olivine gabbro               ....                                               429
                                                                                        156       J
    1   Basalt                                                                   0-00048
                                                                                                      0-00062
                                                                                             77   |
                                                                                 0-00049
                                                                                            164
                                                                                            028
                                                                                             27
                                                                                            362
                                                                                             82
                                                                                            153       0     00237
                                                                                            284
                                                                                             75
                                                                                            68
                                                                                             1
                                                                                             99
                                     M
                                            justify their employment
        These results are sufficiently numerous to
in the calculationswhich follow. They prove that, in spite of great
variations between individual specimens, the average susceptibility of

•r)i2      Prof. Riicker.     On   the  Magnetic Permeability      of
basic rocks is relatively very high.         The average of all the speci
mens from the west of Scotland and from Ireland is 0'00'24>.             If we
exclude the Giant's Causeway and Staffa, it is 0'00271, which is thus
the average of all the specimens tested from a district nearly 70
miles in length.     There would, therefore, be nothing absurd in the
supposition    that equally large values obtained over equally large
areas elsewhere ; but in the calculations the assumed susceptibility
is the much smaller value given by the Mull specimens, viz., O'OUlt?.
    An experiment was made on the effects of temperature on the
permeability of magnetite.       It was only of a rough preliminary kind,
but the result was quite clear, and further and more elaborate ex
periments on the same point are about to be undertaken in the
laboratory at South Kensington.
    The interior of one of the enps of the Hughes' induction balance
was lined with a-sbestos cloth, and a fragment of non-magnetic granite
which had been heated to incipient redness in the flame of a Bunsen
burner was introduced into it. The balance which had been pre
viously obtained was quite undisturbed. The same experiment was
then repeated with a piece of magnetite.              The introduction of the
rock at once caused the telephouo to " speak," but silence was
quickly obtained by turning the screw by which the parallelism of
t he primary and secondary coils is secured.           The compensator used
in the previous experiments had not sufficient range, and readings
 were taken by a paper scale of degrees attached to the screw head.
 As the magnetite cooled the zero altered, and, in order to maintain
silence, it was necessary to keep turning the screw in the direction
 which indicated that the permeability of the specimen was decreasing.
The stone was allowed to cool for half an hour, and the total altera
tion of the zero measured.       It was then removed altogether, and the
new position of silence found. In one experiment the following values
were obtained.     The figures in the second column indicate the number
of degrees through which the screw was turned from the first zero
obtained after the introduction of the hot magnetite : —
                                             ;  Reading.
                         Magnetite, hot             0°
                                    cold....      320
                              „     removed       790
    This result proves that,   as  in the  case  of iron, the permeability of
m-ignetite   increases  as the temperature       rises, the increase in the ex
periment    just described   being about 70 per cent.         A second experi

               Hocks and Regional Magnetic Disturbances.                 523
merit gave about      60 per cent.    It is, of course, probable that if the
temperature is raised sufficiently the permeability of magnetite,
like that of iron, will rapidly diminish, and that, after a certain
temperature is reached, it will cease to be magnetic.         This point also
we hope to investigate further.
               Part II. — On Regional Magnetic Disturbances.
    In attempting to  base  calculations upon the permeabilities measured
 by Messrs. Hightield and Jarratt, it is necessary to make some assump
tions as to tho magnetic state of the earth's crust.
    The average increase of temperature with depth is about 1° C. for
every 90 feet, and if this rate obtains for a depth of several thousand
feet, the temperature would be 700° C. at 12 miles, or about '20 kilos,
from the surface.       Iron ceases to be magnetic between 700° C. and
 800° C, and it seems, therefore, fair to assume that below this depth
 mngnetic matter does not exist.          Whether this be so or not, it is
 necessary  to suppose   that at some   given distance from the surface the
 earth may be regarded as magnetically uniform.            In selecting such
 a distance for purposes of calculation         the relations   between the
 magnetic properties of iron and temperature afford perhaps the most
 trustworthy guide.
    Let then a level surface be regarded as homogeneous.           It may be
 called the magnetic flour.    Let matter, magnetised by tho earth's in
 duction, be supposed to be placed upon it, and let all calculations be
 based on the hypothesis that the permeabilities with which we have
 to deal differ but little from unity.
     The disturbance produced by the magnetic mass will be the same
 whether the magnetic floor is magnetic or non-magnetic ; for the
 same coating of south hemisphere magnetism, which in tho latter
 case will represent the effects of the earth's induction on the lower
 surface of the mass, will represent the modification it produces in
 tho magnetisation of the floor if tho latter is magnetic.
     The disturbances which have to be explained are of two kinds, viz.,
 those in which a very great range of vertical force disturbance
 occurs within a limited area, and those in which a moderately high
 value of vertical disturbance occurs over a large area.
     In all cases the effects of the upper and lower surfaces of the dis
 turbing masses will bo opposed, and the force observed will be the
 same if the disturbance is produced by similar masses, tho distances
 of which from the attracting point are proportional to their linear
 dimensions.     Even supposing, therefore, the shape and tho magnetic
 properties  of  the  mass are known, we learn nothing as to its prox
 imity to the surface from the mere magnitude of the disturbing force
 at a single station.

524          Prof. Riicker.    On the Magnetic Permeability   of
   On the other hand, the absence of vertical disturbing force does
not necessarily prove that no magnetic matter exists between the
magnetic floor and the point of observation.         The upper and lower
surfaces of a plate, of which the horizontal dimensions are very large
compared with the distance of either from the surface, would produce
equal and opposite effects over the central parts.
   On approaching the plate from a distance the vertical disturbing
force would increase near the edge, and then die out as the centre was
approached, the phenomena so far corresponding with those which
occur when the observer crosses an underground ridge of magnetic
rocks.     The two cases, however, could be distinguished by the fact
that the direction of the horizontal forces would be the same on both
sides of the line of maximum vertical force if the disturbance were
due to the edge of a plate, but different if it were produced by a
magnetic ridge.
   I now propose, therefore (1), to describe the  distribution of vertical
force disturbance over England and Wales ;         (2) to show that the
presence beneath the surface of rocks which         possessed in situ the
same magnetic properties as basic rocks on the     surface would produce
disturbing forces of the same order        as those which are actually
observed.
   In discussing the first point, it will be convenient to measure dis
turbances or departures of the msgnetic force from its normal calcu
lated value as terms of 0-00001 C.G.S. or O'OOOl metric unit, which
may be regarded as the unit of disturbing force.      Vertical disturbing
forces are positive when they urge a north-seeking pole downwards.
   It is fully explained in the published account of the magnetic
survey that vertical force disturbances are measured from an arbi
trary datum, and that there is no proof that this is uniform all over
the kingdom.
   The largest area of positive disturbance occurs in the enst and
south-east of England.       It extends from the English Channel to the
north of Yorkshire, i.e., about 230 miles north and south, and in
parts   it is about 1 10 miles wide.
   It  is, however, deeply cut into by a narrow gulf-like region of
negative disturbance in the Midlands, and by others in Kent, Sussex,
and South Lincolnshire.
   Taking this into account, and also the fact that in the north it
is very narrow, it is fair to assumo that it may be approximately
represented by a rectangular figure 180 miles long and 108 miles
wide.     Tho regions of negative vertical force which bound it are
relatively small, say from 15 to about 50 miles wide in the west,
while to the north they aro wider.
   To the east and south the sea prevonts our determining the exact
limits of tho district. It may, however, be taken as a rough but

                  Rock* and Regional Magnetic Disturbance*.                       525
ndequate representation of the actual state of things to assume that
the district has no magnetic matter to the north and south ; but it is
separated from other similar regions on the east and west by a non
magnetic trench 36 miles wide.
     The difficulty in accounting for a high average difference of vertical
disturbing force increases with the size of the district, as has already
been explained.           We are, therefore, choosing regions which afford
the most severe test of the theory that the disturbing forces are due
to the magnetism induced in iron-bearing rocks.                If we confine our
attention to a line crossing the two trenches and the plateau half
way between their northern and southern boundaries, no important
error will be introduced if we consider the length of the trenches and
plateau to be indefinitely extended north and south.                     The values
obtained are, however, affected by the assumptions wo make as to the
magnetic character of the ground east and west of the district under
consideration.          The first hypothesis made is that the external
 lioundaries of the trench are narrow plateaux, and that beyond them
 t-'iere is no magnetic matter.        Afterwards, we will suppose that they
 extend to infinity at a uniform height above the magnetic floor.                 We
 may    also,  at  first, assume  that  the edges  of  the  magnetic masses are
 vertical, and that they are magnetised by the vertical component of
 t he earth's field only.      It will be convenient to express all distances
 in kilometres, and, as above stated, all disturbing forces in terms of
 0-00001 C.G.S. or 0-0001 metric unit.
     The mean values of all the positive and all the negative vertical
 force disturbances in England and Wales, recorded by Dr. Thorpe
 and myst'lf, are +.19 and —80 respectively, giving an average range
 of about 140.
     A difference of this order can       be obtained    if we suppose that the
 slabs of magnetic matter are 16 kilom. (or about 10 miles) thick, and
 that thus the upper surfaces are 4 kilom. (or about 2^ miles) from the
 surface of the earth.
     The components of the attraction exerted on a point by a plane
  rectangular plate consisting of an uniform layer of attracting matter
 of density a may be expressed as follows : —
      Let planes be drawn through the point perpendicular to the plate
 and parallel to its edges.          Let the points in which these meet the
  edges or edges produced of the rectangle be joined to the point, and
  let these make angles <p2 and <pv 03 and 01 with the normal.
      Then the components perpendicular to the plate and parallel to 't
  and to the plane of the (f>'s are —
      <r{sin_1 (sin 03 sin 02)— sin-1  (sin 02 sin 9{)— sin-1   (sin 0j sin  9.,)
                                                                   1
                                                           + siu     (sin 0! sin 0^},

526              Prof. Riicker.           On the Magnetic Permeability                          of
and                     (r{loge(cos0j sin03+ </\ — sin3 fcjsin3 0()
                        —                                                          sin-
                            log, (cos   02 sin 02+            ^/l—   sin2    U.2          03)
                        — Iog,(cos01           sin0j+                sin-'tf, sin20,)
                        + logf (cos      0.2   sin   0X   +   yi— siu2^            siu202)}.
  The component parallel to the plane of the rectangle and to that of
the 6's obtained from the last by writing
            is                               for   and vice versa.     0             0
  In the particular case for which 0j =       =    and     = jt/2, the      0X      0           03
expressions reduce to
                        o03    and      — fflog,. cos          02   = "log, soc02.
   In the case under consideration these must be doubled, as the plate
is supposed to extend both north and south of the point.
   If we assume the magnetic susceptibility of the mass to be O0016,
which     about the mean value of the Mull basic rocks, and take the
            is
vertical pomponent of the earth's field as 0'46 C.G.S. units, we
get—
                              2» = 2x0-46x0-0016                      = 0-00147,
so   that   if    03   is   expressed in degrees
                                         2«03        = 0-000025702-
also                          2a log, sec      0,    = 0-00338         log10 sec 02.
   Hence the disturbance produced        2'57 02 and 338 log10 sec 0j
                                                               is
units of disturbing fortre respectively.
   By means of these expressions we may calculate the attractions
exerted at points on the surface 10 kilom. apart by horizontal
plates of
                   " matter" of           kinds 60 kilom. wide, and of
           magnetic            opposite
indefinite length at depths of and 20 kilom. respectively.
                                                 4
   Subtracting the numbers given by the lower from those deduced
from the upper plate, we get the resultant vertical and horizontal
forces due         to the opposite              magnetisation               of the upper and lower
surfaces.
   The minor plateaux are supposed to consist of two such plates, the
principal plateaux of three plates side by side.
   The resultant force at any point   obtained by adding, algebraically,
                                                          is
the components due to each mass.
   Fig.     represents the two cases which have been submitted to
            3
calculation.    They differ only in that the magnetic matter outside
the central plateau     supposed, in the one case, to be limited, and in
                               is
the other, to be unlimited, in an east and west direction.
  The forces are determined for points on the surface 10 kilom. apart.

                                  Mocks and Regional Magnetic Disturbances.                                                    527
                                                             Fig.     3.
     WEST                                                   SURFACE                                              EAST
                                         *       '
                                                                 ,180"                    "I*
                                                                                                 63      *
                                                                                      %
                                                      MAGNETIC         FLOOR
                                                            SURFACE
                                                                           -   Tf-                                             •   -
                                                                                                             Mfc
                                                      MAGNETIC         FLOOR
Thus 0  being over the outer edge of the trench,.    over the middle                            3   is
of the trench, over the edge of the plateau, and 15 over its centre.
                                   6
The forces are expressed in terms of units of disturbing force or
0 00001 C.G.S. unit. Horizontal forces are positive which urge a
north-seeking pole towards the central plateau.   Vertical forces are
positive which act downwards as above stated.
                                                     Case   I.                                  Caee 11.
                                        VertieoL            Horizontal..             Vertical..          Horizontal.
                                                                 -209                 -                      -223
                                         -    21
                                                                 -                         41
                                                                                                             -
            9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
                                         -
                                         -
                                              9S
                                              90                 -    80
                                                                      23
                                                                                      -155
                                                                                      - 144                  -    93
                                                                                                                  34
                                                                                      -188
                                         -    87                      9                                            0
                                              94                      41              -144                        34
                                         -108
                                                 6
                                                                      99
                                                                     227              -
                                                                                      -155
                                                                                           41
                                                                                                                  93
                                                                                                                 223
                                             117                     102                   72                     99
                                             101                      49                   55                     46
                                              81                      20                   40                     20
            10                                73                      12                   30                     14
            11                                ee                                           24
                                                                      4 8
                                                                                                                   0 1 3 5 9
            12                                62                                           20
            13                                59                      1                    17
            14                                57                                           16
            15                                5(5                     0 0                  16
     Moan positive.                          + 64                                     +    32
      „   negative                           -95                                      -117                       •
                                                                                                                 •
       »    range                   .
                                    .        159                                          149
   Other disturbances may be imagined which give similar results.
If the central plateau stood alone, surrounded by non- magnetic
mutter, the mean range, as calculated above between the vertical
forces over    and those observed within the 60 kilom. (36 miles) of
                      it
its edge, would be 127. If the edge of the valley, instead of being
vertical, were verticHl for 10 kilom. only, and then sloped upwards
with an inclination of in 10, the range would be 107,
                                             1

 52X          I'rof. Riicker.            On the Magnetic Permeability                   of
   Although, therefore, the method of testing the theory is nece sarily
very rough, it is nevertheless evident that the range of the vertical
forces over a mass of magnetic matter of almost the same area as the
region of positive vertical force disturbance in England, and within
GO kilom. of its edge, might agree fairly with the facts if the edges of
the mass were steep, and if its magnetic properties were the same as
those of the Mull basaltic rocks.   The observed rnngo is 140. and
widely differing hypotheses give calculated values between 107 and
lo9.
   It     is not,     however,        sufficient       to account     for the differences of
vertical force over large areas. Within                          there are smaller but still
large districts in which the vertical force disturbance considerably
exceeds the mean, and the explanation of the phenomena by rock
magnetism would be imperfect if the calculated forces were insuffi
cient to explain the characters of these. It might easily be that, to
produce an average vertical force disturbance equal to that which
obtains over the whole plateau, it was necessary to bring the upper
surface so near to the surface of the earth that the remaining depth
was insufficient to accouut for the additional forces in play on the
area of greater disturbance "within it.
   The largest area of very high vertical force which has at present
been mapped in detail lies in Lincolnshire and South Yorkshire.
   The following table exhibits the names of stations within  and the                    it,
vertical force disturbance at each —               :
        Sutton-on-Dcrwent     .
                              .          22f)           Thome                            23(1
        Market Wcighton                  UN'.)          Hutterwiek . .   .               L".i-.
        Howden                    |      2io            Hrigg                            251
        DonrastiT                        225            Market Rasen                     277
                    Mean of all, 207.            Excluding     three highest,   23(i.
  If theseplaces are connected by straight lines, an irregular figure of
eight   produced, the area of which
         is                               about 425 square miles, or
                                                          is
1100 square kilom.
   It is, of course, unlikely that the stations are all close to the edge
of the attracting mass, but, on the other hand,        may be deeply cutit
into by valleys or regions   of less disturbance.   The latter hypothesis,
if correct, would make        easier to explain the high forces, whereas
                                  it
an extension of the district beyond the limits actually observed
makes any such explanation more difficult.         The distance between
the most northerly and most southerly stations (Sutton-on-Derwent
and Market Rasen)        4-3 miles, or 7o kilom.
                            is                     The distance east and

                  Rocks and Regional Magnetic Disturbances.                                529
west between Doncaster and Brigg, -which are near the centre of the
sonthern loop of the figure of eight is about 27 miles, or 45 kilom.
  It may, therefore, fairly be assumed that the order of the forces
within the district will be the same as that of those over a rectangle
60 kilom. in length and 30 in breadth. The linear dimensions of such
a figure are somewhat less than the extreme length and breadth of
the district, but its area is 1'6 times greater.  Let us then superpose
upon the plateau a rectangular mass, 60 kilom. long by 30 broad, and
3-5 deep, the upper surface of which is, therefore, at a depth of
0-5 kilom. or 1638 feet.
   The vertical disturbing forces due to this mass along a line passing
over its centre and parallel to its longer edge, are as follows.: —
   Distances are expressed in kilometres.
                                    Distance.            Force.
                               Middle.. ..       0          76
                                                10          79
                                                20          98
                                                25         123
                               Edge....                     37
                                                          -34
                                                40
                                                50        --   9
                                                60             4
   Taking the mean of the numbers at the edge and at a distance of
5 kilom. from it as applying to the district between them, the mean of
the positive vertical disturbances is 83.
   If this minor mass were placed on the larger one, so that their
longer edges were parallel, and that the median line of the smaller
mass was 20 kilom. from the edge of the larger one, thus correspond
ing with the position 8 in fig. 3, p. 527, and                 if,
                                                 lastly, the distribution
of magnetic matter were as         shown in that figure, then the mean
                                         is
vertical disturbance along the median line of the small mass would be
101 + 83      = 184.
  In comparing  the observed and calculated values                    it    is   convenient
to take the mean force in the negative districts as                  a   datum    ;   so   that
the   disturbance        as calculated    is    95   +   184   = 279, and    as    observed
80 + 236      =   316.
   This latter number     obtained by excluding the high values at
                               is
Market Weighton, Butterwick-on-Trent, and Market Rasen, but
these can easily be imitated by placing small masses on the upper
surface.
   A plate, kilom. square and 0-25 kilom. thick, approaching the
               5
surface to within 0*25 kilom., or 820 feet, would increase the force by
  vol.     xlviii.                                                                2
                                                                                  o

530           Prof. Riicker.          On   the  Magnetic Permeability         of
40.    A mass of magnetic matter in the shape of a frustum of a cone^
of -which the vertex was in the surface, and the angle between the
generating and median lines tan-1 \/2, and of which the upper plane
surface was 430 feet from the surface of the earth, would exert
at the vertex a vertical force 231, thus bringing the total calculated
disturbance up to 279 + 231 = 510, as against 384 + 80 = 464,
observed at Market Weighton.                 Such a cone gives a maximum effect ;
but it must be remembered that, although no magnetic rocks exist
near the surface at Market Weighton, yet the fact that the older
rocks approach the surface near that town led Professor Judd to
advise its being selected as a station, and it may well be that the
underlying magnetic masses rise steeply in its neighbourhood.
   It is a little difficult to summarise an argument of this kind, but if
we start from the near mean negative disturbance in the " valley" as
a datum, and distinguish the other stations as being over an under
ground plateau, mountain, and peak respectively, we get the                     following
results : —
                                                                  Mean vertical disturb
                                                                     ance in terms of
    Station.          Depth of nearest point of magnetio              000001 C.G.S.
                                      matter.
                                                                   Observed.   Calculated.
   Valley....      No large mass of magnetic matter above              0           0
                     the magnetic floor, i.e., within 20 kilom.,
                     o*r 12 miles, of the surface
   Plateau . . .                                                     140         159
   Mountain    .  0 5 kilom. — 1640 feet                             318         279
   Peak           0137 kilom. = 450 feet                             464         510 max.
    It is thus possible to imagine a distribution of magnetic matter at
depths between 450 feet and 12 miles, and of no greater permeability
than Mull basalt, the mere presence of which in the earth's magnetic
field would produce vertical disturbing forces of the same order as
those actually observed.
   The maximum calculated horizontal forces are larger than any of
those which have been measured in England or Wales.                                Case    I
 (see  Table,    p. 527)    has   been  adopted     as  the  basis  of  calculation,   and
the horizontal disturbing force at the edge of the plateau is thus 227.
Forces of this magnitude are found in Scotland, but the largest value
in England is 124 at Melton Mowbray.
   At the middle of the edge of the smaller mass, on the side on which

               Rocks and Regional Magnetic Disturbances.                531
 its horizontal attraction strengthens that due to the plateau as a
 whole, the resultant force would be about 450, a value which is sur
 passed only by such stations as Canna and Soa, which are islands in
 the West of Scotland.
     While, then, in order to account for the high vertical forces, we
 have been obliged to mako favourable assumptions as to the shape of
 the masses, as to the position of the smaller on the larger mass, and
as to the magnetic properties of the rocks, we now find that these
 lead to possible values of the horizontal disturbing force considerably
 greater than any which have been measured.
     The most obvious explanation of the discrepancy is the assumed
 verticality of the sides of the magnetic masses.       If the sides of the
 valley slope for half the height at      an inclination of one in ten, as
described above (p. 527), the largest horizontal force due to the
 plateau at any of the points for which the calculation has been made
 is 123, as against 227 when the sides are vertical. It must, however,
 be remembered that in this case the mean range of vertical forces is
 reduced from 159 to 107.      It is not, therefore, convenient to assume
 that the slopes are very gradual.
     The supposition that the main mass is surrounded by magnetic
 matter of less permeability than itself reduces the horizontal forces,
 but also reduces the vertical forces below the observed values.
    An irregular outline, on the other hand, might tend to increase the
 range of the vertical force at points near the edge, while it would
diminish the horizontal forces.
    It appears on the whole, however, that the gentle slopes or gradual
changes of permeability which would reduce the horizontal forces to
the observed values, would give vertical forces about one-third too
.small.
    I do not think that this can be considered an unsatisfactory result,
but   I will defer comment upon it in order to turn to another point.
So far, we have been discussing districts of widespread disturbance.
In Scotland the forces are more localised, but more intense. The
most rapid change of vertical force disturbance which has been
measured is in the Southern Hebrides, where it varies from — 736 at
Loch Boisdale to +369 at Bernera, which is only 20 miles distant.
    Dr. Thorpe and I have proved (' Roy. Soc. Proc.,' vol. 47) that a
very intense centre of disturbance exists in this neighbourhood, and it
is remarkable as being near the highly magnetic rocks of Mull, but, as
its effects appear to be more far reaching than those of that island,
it is legitimate to assume that it is produced by rocks of exceptional
magnetic power.      An equal range of force could, however, be pro
duced by the mean permeability of basalt in the west of Scotland,
i.e., 0-00271.
    If, as before, we take the  attracting   mass  to be the frustum of a

 532         Prof. Rttcker.    On  the Magnetic Permeubility     of
cone,    of which  the vertex is in the surface, the vertical angle is
 2 tan-1 \/ 2, and the upper and lower faces are y0 and y kilom. from
 the surface respectively, the force exerted at the vertex is
                            23nxx0-8871og10(j//y0)
 where a is the density on the horizontal surface.
    If y = 20 and y0 = 0*5 kilom., this gives a vertical disturbing
 force of 1110.     By thus assuming a favourable form for the rock
 mass, it is possible to account for the force by means of ordinary
 basalt, which nowhere approaches the surface nearer than a depth of
 500 metres, or about 1600 feet.
    Some difficulty may be felt about Ireland, over a large part of
which the vertical force disturbance is negative.
   If this be regarded as a real upward force, it could only (on the
hypothesis under consideration) exist in the neighbourhood of mag
netic matter, which would probably cause more widespread positive
disturbance than has been registered.
   I  am inclined to account for this by a shift       in the datum from
which the disturbances are measured.           If the   calculated   vertical
forces are all 0-00100 C.G.S. unit too large in Ireland, the vertical
disturbance would be nearly everywhere positive.          An error of this
sort would be accounted for by an error of 0-00040 C.G.S. unit in the
horizontal force, and this again would correspond to a displacement of
the lines of equal horizontal force through 6 miles.       If, however, the
error was due to an unfavourable combination of inaccuracies, both
in the lines of equal dip and equal horizontal force, this displacement
of the lines might be reduced, so that, on the whole, it is not impos
sible that the datum in Ireland may be 10© units of vertical force
disturbance different from that in England.        If this is so, and if the
change is gradual across England, the difference between the means
of the negative and positive vertical disturbance would be diminished,
and the calculated would be brought into closer accord with the
observed range of vertical forces.
   As the Malvern Hills have been so carefully studied, it seemed
worth while to see whether the observed deflections of the needle
towards the hills could be accounted for by their magnetic nature.
   It is, however, at once evident that the problem is beset with diffi
culties.    The permeability of the range appears to be different in
different parts, and a mean value will not give accurate results.
The visible mass of igneous rock, supposed to be of mean perme
ability, is certainly insufficient to account for the observed effects,
and if we attempt to base calculations on assumed underground
extensions of the mass, they are of course founded on pure hypo
thesis.
   The easiest way of attacking the problem is to calculate the sum of

               Rocks and Regional Magnetic Disturbances.               533
the two attractions     exerted on opposite   sides of the hills towards
them.
   Observations   have been made at four stations, two (Great Malvern
and Malvern Wells) on the eastern, and two (Mathon and Colw&ll
Green) on the western, side of the hills. Great Malvern and Mathon
are near the north end of the range, and the sum of the two attrac
tions is 0-00243 C.G.S. unit of force.       Malvern Wells and Colwall
Green are near the middle of the range, and the sum of the attractions
is O00118.      It will thus be seen that at what would, prima facie,
have appeared the most favourable position the forces are smaller,
but the result accords with the fact that the specimens collected at
the north end of the range contained the largest quantity of magnetite.
Sections across the range have been published by the Geological
Survey, and from these it seems that on the eastern side the wall of
igneous rock is nearly vertical, while on the western side it slopes
more gradually under the sedimentary rocks, and if continued as far
from the range as our stations (about a mile and a quarter, or 2 kilom.),
it must be at a depth of 2000 feet, or, say, 600 metres. Assuming,
then, that our stations were near the edge of the horizontal extension
of the igneous rocks, and that the latter extend north and south for
8 miles (13 kilom.),   I find that the sum of the attractions on opposite
sides of the range near its centre, and at points as distant from it as
our stations were, is 0'00291, 0'00154, or 0-00067, according as we
assume the mean permeability to be —
   (1) That of the three most favourable rock specimens ;
   (2) That of all the specimens which possessed measurable perme
         abilities ;
   (3) That of all the specimens obtained.
   If these are compared with the observed forces, viz., 0'00243 and
0'00118, it is seen that, while they are of the right order of magnitude,
an exact numerical agreement could only be obtained if we supposed
the mean permeability of the range to be somewhat greater than
that of its surface, as judged by the specimens collected by Mr.
Highfield.
   The results may,    I  think, be considered to support the view that
the igneous rock extends laterally at a moderate depth from the
surface, at least on the western side of the hills, to a distance of a
mile or a mile and a quarter, but probably not much more, from the
axis of the range.
   In conclusion, then,   I  am anxious that the purport of the calcula
tions above described should not be misunderstood.         In particular, I
do not attempt to specify the depth at which magnetic matter exists
where none appears on the surface, in the east of England or else
where.     But, in spite of this uncertainty about every detail, the

534           Prof. Riicker.     On  the Magnetic Permeability of
investigation,    I  think, supplies for the first time a definite answer to
the enquiry whether the mere presence in the earth's magnetic field
of concealed magnetic rocks, such as those which exist on the surface,
would suffice to account for the observed local or regional magnetic
disturbances     in districts where the superficial deposits are non-mag
netic.
    The question is not answered by pointing to the large disturbances
produced close to basic rocks, for these may be, and probably often
are, due to permanent magnetism.            But, as this is very irregularly
distributed in the surface rocks, we cannot regard it as a probable
cause of widespread disturbance, though locally it may produce very
intense effects.
    It is, I think,   answered in the affirmative by the above discussion.
    In gauging      the value of the answer,    it must be remembered that
only one of the various constants involved has been at our disposal,
and that it would not have been possible to imitate the observed
results by assigning to it appropriate            values, whatever arbitrary
assumption had been made as to the others.
    Thus, in the simple case of a rectangular magnetic slab, the average
vertical force produced over it in virtue of the earth's inductions,
depends on five variables, viz., its length and breadth, the distance of
its upper and lower horizontal surfaces from the surface of the earth,
and its permeability.       Of these, the first two have been defined by the
observed magnitude of the areas of high vertical force.            The depth
of the lower surface has not been fixed to suit the exigencies of the
argument, but deduced from the temperature at which iron ceases to be
magnetic.       The permeability is at most that given by experiment on
 the specimens of basic rocks from the west of Scotland.         Only one dis
 posable constant remained, viz., the depth of the upper surface, and by
shifting this we can do no more than raise the average disturbing
 force to a certain     maximum,    which might have been much less than
 the observed disturbances.        As a matter of fact, however, by choosing
suitable depths we are able to obtain forces of exactly the right order
of magnitude.         With the constants chosen there appears to be some
difficulty in obtaining correct relative values of the vertical and hori
 zontal disturbing forces, though even here the order of their magni
 tude is unaffected.      This is exactly the kind of difficulty which might
almost certainly be expected in calculations based only on more or less
 probable assumptions.        It will be diminished by any change which
 increases the intensity of the calculated forces, and there are several
 possible causes which might produce such an effect.
    Thus no account has been taken of the increase in the permeability
of magnetite with temperature.           This is certainly a vera causa, and
 will tend to bring observation and calculation into closer agreement.
    Again, the high specific gravity of the earth,      as compared with that

                Rocks and Regional Magnetic Disturbances.               535
of the surface rocks, makes it probable that the interior is largely
metallic, and it is possible that, even at depths less than that assigned
to the magnetic floor, iron may exist in large quantities with the very
high permeability it possesses at high temperatures.
    Lastly, the basic rocks of Hnll give a much smaller mean value of
«r than those of Skye and Ardnamurchan.          If the underground rocks
were as permeable as these, all difficulty would vanish.
    On the other hand, there are some considerations which point to the
opposite direction.     Thus, Professor Judd informs me that he leans to
the opinion that' in igneous magmas subject to the great pressures which
obtain at considerable depths iron tends to form silicates rather than
magnetic oxide.      If this is so, the permeability of the snrface rocks
may be a maximum rather than a minimum, unless native iron exists
in large quantity at great depths. The effect of pressure on perme
ability is an unknown factor, which might support or weaken the
argument.
    Points such as these are, however, outside the scope of this paper.
 But, though it is obviously unwise to be dogmatic on a question which
 is still surrounded by difficulties, I think that the result of the present
 enquiry is much in favour of the rock-magnetism theory of regional
 magnetic disturbances.


                             PROCEEDINGS OF
                 THE             ROYAL                  SOCIETY.
vol. XLvra.         *^?rf        •
                                                                                       No. 292.
                                         CONTENTS.
                                          May   1, 1890.
                                                                                           PAQB
    I. Magnetic Properties of Alloys of Nickel and Iron.             By  J. Hopkinsos,
         D.Sc., F.R.S                                                                          1
  II.  Photographic Determination of the Time-relations of the Changes which
         take place in Muscle during the Period of so-called " Latent Stimula
         tion."   By  J.  Bitbdon Sandebsoh, F.B.S.                                           14
III.   The Development of the Sympathetic              Nervous   System in Mammals.
         By A. M. Patbbson, M.D                                                               19
 IV. A    Note on an Experimental       Investigation    into the Pathology of Cancer.
         By Chables A. Ballaxce and Samuel (i. Shattock                .     .        .   .23
List of Presents                                                                             23
                                          May  8, 1890.
    I. On certain Ternary Alloys.        Part II.    By C. K. Alder Wbkjht, D.Sc,
         F.R.S., Lecturer    on Chemistry   and   Physics, and C. Thompson, F.C.S.,
         F.I.C., Demonstrator of Chemistry, in St. Mary's Hospital Medical
         School                                                                              25
  II.  Experiments on Vapour-density.            By E. P. Pebman,          B.Sc.,   Cloth-
         workers' Exhibitioner    at University College, London .            .      .     .45
III.   On Barometric Oscillations during Thunderstorms, and on the Bronto-
         meter, an Instrument designed to facilitate their Study.               By Or. J.
         Symons, F.B.S                                                                       59
IV.    On the   Heating   Effects of Electric Currents.        No.  IV. By William
         Henry    Pbeece, F.B.S                                                              68
List of Presents        .     .    .
                                                                                  '
                                                                                     .    .68
                 For  continuation   of  Content!   see 2nd page   of Wrapper.
                       Pi-ice Three Shillings and Sixpence.
    July    31, 1890.

                                  CONTENTS (continued).
                                          May   22, 1890.
                                                                                      PAOE
  L A      Contribution     to the Etiology of Diphtheria.        By E.  Klein, M.D.,
         F.RJ3                                                                           71
 II.   The Chemical Product* of the Growth of Bacillus anthracit and their
         Physiological Action. By Sidney Marti n, M.D., Pathologist to the
         Middlesex Hospital                                                              78
III.   On the Development of the Atrial Chamber of Amphioxut.             By Abthttb
          Willet, Student of University College, London               .         .    .80
IV. On      a Method    of determining the Value of Rapid Variations of a Differ
                                                                      ....
         ence of Potential    by means of the Capillary Electrometer.      By George
         J.  Bitbcii, B.A                                                                89
  V. A    Bacteria-killing   Globulin. By E. H. Hankin, B.A., St. John's College,
         Cambridge,     Junior   Georgo Henry Lewes Student                              93
List   of Presents                                                                      101
Obituary Notice      :—
       Kcdolp Jirc,rrs Emmanuel Clacsius                                                    i
                                 Published    by Triibner and Co.
                           Royal 4to. pp. xiv-326, cloth.     Price 21*.
  OBSERVATIONS              OP THE INTERNATIONAL POLAR EXPEDITIONS.
                                            1882-1883.
                                         Foil       R A E .
                             With  32  Lithographic Folding Plates.
                    A reduction of price to Fellows of the Royal Society.
                                 Published by Triibner and Co.
In   1  vol., 4to.   Pp.  500    With 6 Chromolithographs of the remarkable       Sunsets of
                                1883 and 40 Maps and Diagrams.
THE ERUPTION OF KRAKATOA AND SUBSEQUENT PHENOMENA.
                   Report of the Krakatoa Committee of the Royal Society.
                                Edited by G. J. Symons,     Fjt.S.
                                   Price 30*. To Fellows,    20».
        HARRISON         AND SONS,         45   & 46,  ST. MARTIN'S      LANE, W.C.
                                     AND   ALL B0OK8ELLKBS.

                 !   lego    PROCEEDINGS OF                             Jj^XjC
               THE                ROYAL                SOCIETY.
vol. xlviii.                                                                      No. 293.
                        ............
                                         CONTENTS.
                                         June  5, 1890.
                                                                                       PAGE
Election of Fellows                                                                     104
    I. Account of recent Pendulum Operations for determining the relative
         Force of Gravity at the Kew and Greenwich Observatories.                  By
         General    Walkeb,     O.B., F.R.S., LL.D                                      105
  II.  Observations on Pure Ice. — Part         II.    By Thos. Andbbws, F.R.S.,
         M.Inst.C.E.          .                                                         106
 III.  The Passive State of Iron and Steel.— Part I.            By Thos. Andrews,
         F.R.8S.L. and E., M.Inst.C.E                                                   116
 IV.   On the Superficial Viscosity of Water.         By Lobd Raylbigh,     Sec. U.S.   127
   V. Experiments with Lord Rayleigh's Colour Box.           fiy Abthur Schusteb,
         F.B.S                                                                          140
List of Presents                                                                        149
                                        June  12, 1890.
    I. On a Redetermination         of the principal Line in the Spectrum of the
         Nebula    in  Orion,   and  on the Character of the Line. By Wixxiam
         Huggins,     D.C:L.,    LL.D., F.R.S., and Mrs. Hugqins         .      .    .151
  II.  Note on the Photographic       Spectrum of the Great Nebula in Orion.       By
         William Hpggins, D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S.,            and Mrs. IIuggins        .  151
III.   On a new Group of Lines in the Photographic          Spectrum of Sirius.    By
         William      Huggins, D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S., and Mrs. Huogins               .  152
 IV. Preliminary      Note on the Development of the Tuatara (Sphenodon
         punctatum).      By Professor A. P. W. Thomas, MA., F.L.S., F.G.S.,
         University College, Auckland, N.Z                                              152
               For continuation of Content)        tee 2nd page of Wrapper.
                       Pi-ice Three Shillings and Sixpence.
   Aug. 8, 1890.

                                   CONTENTS (continued).
                                                                                            PAGE
   V. On the Position of the Vocal Cords in Quiet Respiration of Man, and
                                                                          ....
           on the Reflex-Tonus of their Abductor Muscles. By Felix Semon,
            M.D., F.R.C.P., Assistant Physician in charge of the Throat Depart
            ment of St. Thomas's Hospital, and Laryngologist to the National
            Hospital for Epilepsy and Paralysis, Queen Square                                156
  VI. A      Record of the Results obtained by Electrical Excitation of the
            so-called Motor Cortex and Internal Capsule in an Orang Outang
            (Simia salyrus). By Chables E. Bebvob, M.D., F.R.C.P., and
            Victor Hobsley, B.S., F.R.S.                (From the Laboratory of the
            Brown Institution.)                                                              159
 VII. A      further Note on the Influence of Bile and its Constituents on
            Pancreatic     Digestion.     By Sidney Mabtin, M.D., Pathologist to
            the Middlesex        Hospital, British Medical          Association   Research
            Scholar, and Dawson Williams, M.D., Assistant Physician to the
            East London Hospital for Children; Shadwell                                       160
VIII.   On the Spectra of Comet a            1890   and the Nebula     O.C.   4058.   By J.
            NOBMAN LoCKYEB,          F.R.S                                                    1C5
List  of Presents                                       ,                                     165
On    the Chief Line         in the Spectrum of the Nebula?.              By   J.   Nohmax
      Lockyeb, F.R.S                                                                          167
Note on the Spectrum of the Nebula of Orion.                   By J.  Noeman Lockyeb,
      F.R.S.       .     .     .   •
                                                                                              198
Preliminary Note on Photographs of the Spectrum of the Nebula in Orion.
      By J. Nobman Lockyeb, F.R.S                                                             199
                                  Published    by Trubner and Co.
                            Royal 4to. pp. xiv-326, cloth.       Price 21*.
  OBSERVATIONS               OF THE INTERNATIONAL POLAR EXPEDITIONS.
                                              1882-1883.
                                          F  O B T    R A E  .
                              With  32 Lithographic     Folding Plates.
                     A reduction of price to     Fellows of the Royal Society.
                                  Published by Trubner and Co.
In  1  vol., 4to.    Pp.   500    With 6 Chromolithographs of the remarkable           Sunsets of
                                 1883 and 40 Maps and Diagrams.
THE ERUPTION OF KRAKATOA AND SUBSEQUENT PHENOMENA.
                  Report of the Krakatoa Committee of the Royal Society.
                                 Edited by G.     J. Symonb, F.R.S.
                                    Price 30*.    To Fellows,   20*.
       HARRISON          AND SONS,          45  & 46,     ST. MARTIN'S        LANE,    W.C.
                                      AND ALL B00KSELLEB8.

                             PROCEEDINGS OF
                  THE             ROYAL             SOCIETY.
vol. xlviii.                                                                  No. 294.
                                       CONTENTS.
                                                                                    PAGE
On   a  Re-determination of the Principal Line in the Spectrum of the Nebula
       in Orion, and on the Character of the Line. By William Huggins,
       D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S., and Mrs. Huggihs                                       202
Note on the Photographic Spectrum of the Great Nebula in Orion.                 By
       William Uuggins, D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S., and Mrs. Huggihs .                 .  213
On   a new     Group of Lines in the Photographic        Spectrum of Sirius.    By
       William Huggins, D.C.L.. LL.D., F.B.S.,        and Mrs. IIugginb      .    .  216
On the Spectra of Comet a 1890 and the Nebula G.C. 4058.           By  J. Norman
       Lockyer, F.R.S.        .     .                                                217
                                             ........
                                       June 19, 1890.
      I. On   the   Determination of some Boiling and Freezing Points by means
            of the Platinum Thermometer. By E. II. Griffitiis, M.A., Sidney
            Sussex   College, Cambridge                                              220
    II.   On the alleged Slipping at the Boundary of a Liquid in Motion. By
            W.C. Dampier Whetham, B.A., Coutts Trotter Studentof Trinity
            College, Cambridge      .                                                225
  III.    Bc-detennination     of the True Weight of    a Cubic  Inch of Distilled
            Water.     By H.   J. Chaney                                             230
   IV.    On Wind Pressure upon an Inclined Surface.        By W.  II. Dines, B.A.   233
    V. On tho action of Oils on the Motions of Camphor on the Surface of
            Water. By Charles Tomlinhon, F.R.S                                       258
   VI.    On the Plasticity of an Ice Crystal.    (Preliminary Note.)    By James
            C. McConnel, M.A                                                         259
 VII.    Preliminary" Note on     a New Magnetometer.    By Professor W. Stbocd,
            D. So.                                                                   2(30
                   For continuation of Contents see 2nd page of Wrapper.
                         Price Seven Shillings and Sixpence.
September        20, 1890.

                               CONTENTS (continued).
                                                                                   PAGE
VIII.   On the Course of the Fibres of the Cingulum and the Posterior Parts of
          the Corpus Callosum and of the Fornix in the Marmoset Monkey.
           By Chables E. Beevob, M.D., F.B.C.P                                      271
  IX.   On the Changes produced in the Circulation             and Bespiration by
           Increase of the Intracranial      Pressure or Tension.    By Waltee
           Spbsceb,    M.S., Assistant-Surgeon     to Westminster   Hospital, and
           Victoe Hoeblet,      B.8., F.E.S                                         273
   X,   On the British Earthquakes of 1889.           By Chables Daviso>', M.A.,
           Mathematical Master at King Edward's High School, Birmingham .           275
  XI.   On the Harmonic Analysis        of Tidal Observations of High and Low
           Water.     By G.  H. Daewin,    F.E.S. , Plumian Professor and Fellow
           of Trinity College, Cambridge                                            278
 XII.   An Experimental Investigation of the Central Motor Innervation of the
           Larynx. Part I. Excitation Experiments. By Felix Semon, M.D.,
           F.E.C.P., and Victoe Hobsley, B.S., F.R.S. (From the Labora
           tory of the Brown Institution.)                                           341
XIII.   Contributions    to the Molecular    Theory    of Induced Magnetism.   By
           J.  A. Ewino, F.B.S., Professor of Engineering in University College,
            Dundee                                                                  342
XIV.    On the Relation      between the Magnetic Permeability of Rocks and
            Regional Magnetic Disturbances.       By A. W. RtJCKEB, M.A., F.R.S.     35^
 XV.    On the Causes of tho Phenomena of Terrestrial Magnetism, and on
            some Electro -mechanism for exhibiting the Secular Changes in its
            Horizontal and Vertical Components. By H. Wilde,, F.B.S.             .   35S
List of Presents                                                                     359
On the Germination of the Seed of the Castor-oil Plant (Ricinns commttnit).
     By   J.  R. Gbeen, M.A., B.Sc, F.L.S., Professor of Botany to the Pharma
     ceutical Society of Great Britain                                               370
A Note    on an Experimental     Investigation into the Pathology of Cancer.   By
     Chables A. Baixaxcb         and Samuel G. Shattock                              392
                                                    .......
On the Position of the Vocal Cords in Quiet Respiration in Man, and on the
      Reflex-Tonus     of their Abductor Muscles.         By Felix Semon, M.D.,
      F.R.C.P., Assistant Physician in charge of the Throat Department of St.
     Thomas's Hospital, and Laryngologist            to the National Hospital for
      Epilepsy and Paralysis, Queen Square                                            403
Obituary Notice     : —
      Sib William Gull                                                                viii
      HARRISON         AND SONS,       45   & 46,   ST. MARTIN'S     LANE, W.C.
                                  &ND ALL    BGOKSELLEBS.

                                                                     J.
                             PROCEEDINGS                   OF
                THE             ROYAL                 SOCIETY.
vol. xlviii.                                                                   No. 295.
                                        CONTENTS.
                                      November, 20, 1890.
                                                                                      PAGE
   I.  On tho Determination      of the Specific Resistance of Mercury in Absolute
         Measure.      By J. V. Jones, Principal and Professor of Physics in the
                                                          ......
         University   College of South Wales and Monmouthshire, Cardiff .           .  434
  II.  The   Spectroscopic Properties of Dust.         By G. D. Liyeing, M.A.,
         F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry, and J. Dewab, M.A., F.E.S., Jack-
         eonian Professor, University of Cambridge                                     437
III.   On tho Specific Heats of Gases at Constant           Volume.    Part I. Air,
         Carbon Dioxide, and Hydrogen.          By J. Jolt, M.A., B.E., Assistant Id
         tho Professor of Civil Engineering,     Trinity College, Dublin      .     .  440
 IV.   Magnetism and Becalcscence.        By   J. Hopkijtsox,  D.Sc., F.R.S.   .    .  442
List of Presents                                                                       440"
                                    ..........
                                      November 27, 1800.
    I. On   the   Homology     between    Genital Ducts     and   Nephridia in the
         Oligocheeta.     By Fbaxk E. Beddabd,            MA,     Prosector of the
         Zoological Society                                                            452
  II.  Tho Patterns in Thumb and Finger Marks : on their Arrangement into
         naturally distinct Classes, the Permanence of the Papillary Bulges
         that make them, and the Bescmblance of their Classes to ordinary
                                                                    ....
         Genera.     By Francis Galton, F.B.S                                          45&
III.   Preliminary Note on the Transplantution and Growth of Mammalian
         Ova within a Uterine Foster-Mother. By Waltku Heapk, M.A.,
          Balfour Student at the University of Cambridgo                               457
 IV.   The Conditions     of Chemical Chango between Nitric Acid and certain
          Metals.   By V. H. Vslet, M.A., the University Museum, Oxford             .  45S
                  For  continuation  of Contents tee 2nd page   of Wrapper.
                        Frice Four Shillings ami Sixpence.
     January     17, 1891.

                              CONTENTS (continued).
                                                                                  PAGB
 V. The Variations      of Electromotive Force of Cells consisting of certain
       Metals, Platinum, and Nitric Acid.         By G.  J. Buech, B.A., and
       V. H. A'eley, M.A., the University Museum, Oxford .          .   .           (60
List of Presents                                                                    461
                                   December   1, 1890.
                            ANNIVERSARY          MEETING.
Report of Auditors                                                                  464
List of Fellows  deceased since last Anniversary                                    464
                 elected                                                            405
Address of the President                                                            M55
Election of Council and Officers                                                    47h
Financial Statement                                                          477 —480
Trust Funds                                                                  481 — 485
Table showing Progress and present State of Society with regard to Fellows      .   480
Account of the appropriation of the sum of £4,000 (the Government Grant)
     annually voted by Parliament to the Royal Society, to be employed in
     aiding the Advancement of Science                                              486
Account of Grants from the Donation       Fund                                      490
Report of the Kcw Committee                                                         491
On the Relation    between  the Magnetic   Permeability of Rocks and Regional
     Magnetic Disturbances.      By A. W. Ruckbb, M.A., F.R.S.        .   .          505
Obituary Notices : —
     Stephen Joseph Peeby                                                             xii
     William Kitchen Pabkeb                                                           xv
     Robeet William Mylne                                                             xx
Index                                                                      .      . xxiii
Title, Contents,  &c.
                             Published by Triibner and Co.
                        Royal 4to. pp. xiv-326, cloth.  Price 21*.
   OBSERVATIONS OF THE INTERNATIONAL POLAR EXPEDITIONS.
                                        1882-1883.
                                    F  o b t Rax.
                          With 32 Lithographic Folding Plates.
                 A reduction of price to Fellows of the Royal Society.
      HARRISON        AND SONS,       45  & 46,   ST. MARTIN'S     LANE, W.C.
                                 AND   ALL BOOK8EIXEBB.

. r-
 i


    3 ^955
NOV
 ¦


