The philosophical magazine.
London, England : Taylor & Francis, 1798-c1977.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015035394157
                              Public Domain, Google-digitized
                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                              We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                              meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                              free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                              in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                              heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                              of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                              copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                              of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                              need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                              address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                              produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                              on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                              the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                              or used commercially. The images are provided for
                              educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.

6
3&7

t^^^^^^^H





      C  /('      0         )~/(f //sr/'-AJf'/t       :
               /;
        JhiitM*d 6yA Title Jk.Canr Street. ./utr /*«.
Sue*'

PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE:
                                COMPREHENDING
          THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF SCIENCE,
                 THE LIBERAL AND FINE ARTS,
              AGRICULTURE, MANUFACTURES,
                                          AND
                                COMMERCE.
               BY ALEXANDER TILLOCH,
HONORARY        MEMBER OF THE ROYAL IRISH ACADEMY,                      &C. &C. &C.
   "  Nee aranearum sane textus     ideo  melior quia ex se fila gignunt, nee noster
vilior quia ex alicnis libamus ut apes."    Just. Lips. Mon'tt. J'elii. lib. i. cap. i.
                                 VOL. XVII.
                                   LONDONt
                  Printed for Alexander' Tilloch,
                     By J. Taylor, Black- Hene-Cmrt, Flcet-ilreet :
And    sold by Messrs. Richardson,         Cornhill; Cadell and Davif.s, Strand j
       Longman      and Rt», Pater-noster Row;         Debrett, Piccadilly,-
            Murray, No. 32, Fleet-street; Svmonds, Pater-noster
               Row; Beil,        No. 148, Oxford-street;      Vernor
                  and Hood,       Poultry; Hardino, No. 36,
                    St. James's-street ; Eeli and Bradfute,
                      Edinburgh; Brash and Rem, Glasgow;
                            anil Gilbert and Hodcls,
                                         Dublin.


5          2-
                           CONTENTS
                                  OF THE
          SEVENTEENTH VOLUME.
   I. ON      the Modifications of Clouds, and on the Principles
       of  their  Production, Suspension, and Destruction ; being
       the Substance of an Essay read before the Askesian Society
       in the Session 1802-3. By Luke Howard, Esq. Page 5
   II. Account of the Kookies or Luncfas: written by John
      Macrae, Esq. and communicated to the Asiatic Society
       by J. II. Harrington, Esq                                  ,11
  III.    An Essay on the Feciila of Green Plants. By Pro
     fessor Proust                                                 22
  Iv. Account of a Journey to the Summit of the Peak of
       Teneriffe: in a Letter from L. Cordier, Engineer of
      Mines, to C. Devilliers, junior                              31
  V. On Mr. Arthur Woolf's improved Apparatus, ap
     plicable to Steam Engines and other Purposes of Art and
      Manufacture : including a Description of two Boilers ?iow
      erecting at Messrs. Meux's Brewery                           40
  VI. On the Motion of Bodies affected by Friction. By
      the Rev. Samuel Vince, A. M. of Cambridge .... 47
  VII. Observations on the Process of Tanning. By Hum
      ph rev Davy, Esq.,
                                Professor of Chemistry in the Royal
      Institution                                                  58
  VIII. An Account of some Experiments and Observations
     on the constituent Parts of certain astringent Vegetables ;
     and on their Operation in Tanning.            By Humphrey
     Davy, Esq. Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Insti
      tution.   . .                                                63
  IX. Eatract from          the  third  Volume  of the   Analyses   of
      M. Klafroth                                                  7(>
  X. Analysis of Ambeigris.           By Bouillon-Lagrange         88
  XI.    Proceedings of    Learned   and Economical Societies . .  92
  XII.    Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles                  94
  XIII. Essay on the Franklinian Theory of Electricity. By
     Samuel Woods, Esq. Read before the Askesian Society
     in the Session 1 802-3                                        97
  XIV. On the Motion of Bodies affected by Friction. By the
     Rev. Samuel Vince, A.M. of Cambridge                        1.13
  XV. Copy of a Letter to the Rev. Samuel Vince, Plumian
     Professor of Astronomy, &c. &c, Cambridge, from
     John Southern, Engineer, dated Birmingham, Janu
     ary 19, 1801                                                120
     Vol. XVII. No. 68.                  a             •
                                                           XVI. On

                          CONTENTS.
XVI.     On the Bite of a Snake cured by Volatile Alkali. By
  David Ramsay, M. D                                    Page 1 25
XVII. Letter to Dr. Ramsay, in consequence of his Ob
  servations on tlw Bite of a Snake cured by Volatile Al
  kali.     By Benjamin Barton, M.D                           128
XVIII.    Analysis of Ambergris.      By  Bouillqn-Lagrange
                                                               131
XIX.     Observations  oh tlw Employment     of Platina m Porce
  lain Painting.      By Professor Klaproth, of Berlin 135
XX.     Advantageous Method of preparing Red Oxide of
   Quicksilver.     By J. W. C. Fischer                        139
XXI. A Memoir concerning several indigenous Plants, which
  may serve as a Substitute for Oak Bark, and for certain
 foreign Articles in the Tanning of leather                    140
XXII. Process for Dyeing Nankeen Colour. By Mr. Richard
  Brewer        .'                                             149
XXIII.      On the Benzoic Acid in the Urine      of Horses.    By
  M. Ferdinand Giese, of Berlin                                151
XXIV.      On some Properties of the Phosphoric Acid not yet
  sufficiently known. By M. J. F. Guersen, Apothecary of
   Kiel                                                        156
XXV.       Description of    a  New Safety-?Piston for Papin's
   Digester,    with  the   Application of it to the Boilers of
   Steam-Engines,     and   also of an Apparatus for regulating
   the Heal of Furnaces.        By A. N. Edelcrantz, Knight
   if   the Swedish Order of the Polar Star, and Member of
   several Academies and Learned Societies                     162
XXVI. Description of Mr. Arthur Woolf's Steam-
   Valve                                                       164
XXVII. Description of a Portable Chamber Blast- Furnace.
   By C. R. Aikin, Esq                                         166
XXVIII.       On the Preparation    of tlw Fulminating Mercury
   of  Mr.   Howard,     by  Mr.  A.  S. Burkitt               169
XXIX. Tenth Communication from Dr. Thornton . . 1 7 1
XXX. Mr. Close's Communication to the Board of Agri
   culture                                                     178
XXXT. Proceeding1: of Learned Societies                        186
XXXII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles
                                                                 I
                                                               188
XXXIII. On Gems. By W. H. 1'epys, jun. Esq. P. R.
   Member of the Askesian Society. Read in tlw Session
    1 8o2-3                                                    193
XXXIV. Of the general Relation between the Specific Gra-
   7'ities and the Strengths and Values of Spirituous Liquors,
  and the Circumstances by which the former are influenced
                                                               204
XXXV. On the Preparation of Indian Ink ; presenting an
  easy and expeditious Method of providing a Substitute
                                                        possessing

                                 CONTENTS.
 possessing      all   its valuable Properties.               By Thomas          Gill,
  Esq                                                                          Page 210       .
XXXVI. An          Account          of'   some Experiments            and      Observa
                         Parts
  tions on the constituent         certain astringent Vege
                                                    of'
  tables;  and on their Operation in Tanning.     By Hum
 phrey Davy, Esq. Professor         Chemistry      the Royal
                                                      of                  in
 Institution                                             212
XXXVII. Of the Herring Fishery. Translated from the
 French ofM. Duhamel and others                          218
XXXVIII. Improved Method         preparing Black Oxide
                                                of'                                      of
  Mercury.           By   M. Schulze,                 of   Kiel                       225
XXXIX.          On the Stones said to have                   fallen from        the   At
  mosphere.          By   J. Delalande                                                228
XL. Extracts from                the   Third        Volume    of    the Analyses         of
  M. Klaproth                                             230
XLI,   Examination     the Red coloured Water
                               of                  hake near          of   a
  Lubotin, in South Prussia. By Professor Klapkoth 243
XLII. Explanation        the Inscription on
                               of             Brick from the      a
  Site     antient Babylon.
           of                   By   the Rev. Samuel Hen
  ley, M.A.F.A.S.                                         250
XLIII. Eleventh Communication from Dr. Thornton 254
XLIV. A Contribution towards the assaying Coins. By                   of
  Professor
             Klaproth                                     256
XLV. On Cinis; Kind       a   Alkaline Earth formed during
                                          of
  the Incineration    Wood, not yet noticed
                            of                    Chemists in         by
  their Nomenclature.     Addressed to George Pearson,
  M.D. F.R.S. &c.                   by    Samuel           L. Mitchill, M. D.
  Member      Congress, c$c. in
                of                 Letter, dated New
                                                a                                    York,
  September 20, 1803, and communicated to Mr.                                  Tilloch
  at the particular request   the Author   of            267
XLVI.      Account        of   a Shower
                                  Stones    in  Letter from
                                                of            ;       a
  the Prefect        of
                 the Department      Vaucleuse to the French
                                                      of
  Minister    the Interior, dated November 10, 1803 . 271
                 of                                                              ,
XLVII. An   improved Method        heating Boilers
                                                of   being an              ;
 Account     the Way in which (}ie Fire
                of                           applied to one    is                        of
 the large Boilers in Messrs. Meux's Brewery              275
XLVIII. Account       the Meteor seen on the Evening
                            of                                                           of
  Sunday, November \3th. 1803; with some Observations
 on the best Means      ascertain ing the Altitude, Bearing,
                               of
 Magnitude, Distance, and Velocity         such Phenomena.   of
  By Mr. T. Firminger                                                                 279
XLIX. Account         New Publications
                          of                                                          284
L. Proceedings       Learned and Economical Societies
                       of                                                        .    285
LI.
                                                                                  .
      Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles                                         286
LII.    Chemical Examination      an antient Speculum.
                                               of                                      By
  Professor Klaproth,    Berlin           of                                   289
LIII. An Account    some Experiments
                              of                                  and Observations
                                                                                       on

                                 CONTENTS.
      on the constituent Parts of certain astringent Vegetables ;
      ana,    on their Operation in Tanning.              By Humphrey
     Davy, Esq., Professor of Chemistry in                  the  Royal In
      stitution                                                   Page 295
 LIV.       Letter from 3. Hume, Esq. on the Formation of
     Nitrous Ether, by Means of Nitrate of Mercury, and on
      other Discoveries supposed to be modern                           305
 LV. A         Method of affording Relief' to Persons injured by
      Lightning. Communicated in a Letter from Mr. Isaiah
      Gilbert        to the Rev. Mr. Steele                             306
 JLVI. Extracts from the Third                  Volume of  the Analyses   of
      M. Klaproth                                                       307
 LVII.        Analysis of tlw Human Teeth.             By W. H. Pepys,
    jun., Esq., P.R.I. , Member of the Askesian and British
      Mineralogical       Societies                                     313
 LVIII.        On Sharks. By William Tatham, Esq. . . 317
 LIX.       On   Vegetation ; extracted from ,C. Hassenfratz's
     Paper      on  that Subject.       By G. J. Wright, Esq. . . 318
LX.        Observations    on  the  UseofSrAHL's alkalized Oxide of
     Iron    in  Calico   Printing. By J. M. Hausman              ....  323
JjXI     •  On   an   Improvement      in  the  Form of Spectacle Glasses.
     By Wm. Hyde Wollaston, M. D. F. R. S.                        ....  327
I^XII. Of the general Relation between the Specific Gravi
     ties and the Strengths and Values of Spirituous Liquors,
    #nd the Circumstances by which the former are influenced
                                                                        329
LXIII. Extract of a Memoir read in the French National
     Institute, on the Strength of the Flax of New Zealand,
    compared with that of the Filaments of the Aloe, of Hemp,
     Flax, and Silk. By C. Labillardikre                                341
LXIV. Sketch of a Geological Delineation of South Ame
    rica.       By F. A. Von Humboldt                                   347
LXV. Description of Mr. Richard Knight's Apparatus
   for preparing Fluoric Acid, and for Etching on Glass
                                                                       357
LXVI.         Description     (f   the    Vulture   of Pcndichcrry.     By
    F. M. Daudin                                                       35#
LXVIT. Twelfth Communication from Dr.                     Thornton, oh
     Pimumutic Medicine                                                360
LXVIII.          Notices respecting      New Publications and llie Fine
    Arts                                     '.
                                                                     .;364
JAIX.         Proceedings     of Learned and Economical Societies
                                                                       371
LXX.        Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles                    3J4

               TO      THE PUBLIC.
The    encouragement which the Proprietor of this work has
experienced from the public claims his warmest acknowledge
ments.    He therefore  embraces the opportunity afforded him
by the commencement       of  a seventeenth   volume, to return
his most grateful thanks for the favours conferred upon him j
and to assure his friends that the approbation bestowed on
his labours, while    it gratifies his utmost wishes, will     sti
mulate him to secure,     by new exertions,     a continuance    of
that patronage   which it shall always be his ambition to ob
tain.
   He  engaged    in the present undertaking       that he might
contribute   his mite towards the improvement of science,
by giving the earliest account of every thing new or curious
in those branches   of knowledge,     in particular, which form
the foundation   of  the most useful    of our arts,   and conse
quently of the riches and prosperity of this country        ; and
he has the satisfaction of reflecting that many things have
been communicated through the channel         of this work which
without   it might have still been buried in obscurity.         As
a proof that this has been the case, he will here only ob
serve,  that the editors  of   a  valuable scientific work, the
Encyclopaedia Britannica, have copied, in their supplement,
many articles from the Philosophical       Magazine,     and have
not been ashamed      to acknowledge the source       from which
ihey derived them.
                               A   2                          The

                                    [   4    ]
    The Conductor can, with some degree of pride, state also,
4hat this work has met with the most favourable recep
tion on    the continent,       in the principal journals        of which it
is frequently quoted       ;   and    that among the number of his
foreign correspondents he can mention the celebrated                  Vol-
TA, BllUGNATELLI,             PlCTET, VAN MoNS, LAMETHERIE,
and several other eminent men, who have occasionally sent
him   letters and articles       of information.
   If any further      testimony      of the   respectable   light in which
this journal is held were         wanting, it might be added, that it
has been honoured         with communications from              some  of the
most celebrated       philosophers and literary men of the united
kingdom,      to whom        the Proprietor considers himself under
great   obligations,     and whose         future favours he earnestly
solicits,
   The Philosophical          Magazine       being thus established       on
the firmest foundation,          its obvious utility and the favoura
ble opinion      entertained      of it by men of science, the Pro
prietor will close this short           address by assuring the public
that it is his determination           to spare no pains or expense to
preserve the reputation         it has acquired ; and that,       in conse
quence of some arrangements he has lately made with his
friends in different parts of Europe, he has reason to hope
that he shall be enabled to enhance its value by opening
new sources of information,              which    will  increase its  utility
and render     it still more worthy of protection.
                                                                       THE

                                    THE
   PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE.
I.   On the Modifications of Clouds, and on the Principled
   of their Production, Suspension, and Destruction ; leing
   the Substance of an Essayread before the Askesian Society
   in the Session l802-;3. By Luke Howard, Esq*
                     [Continued from vol. xvi.   p. 357.]
                  Of   the Formation       of the Cirrus*
It must      have been owing entirely to the want of distinc
tive characters For clouds, and the consequent neglect of
observing their changes, that the nature of this modification
more especially has not engaged the attention of electri
cians. The attraction of aggregation operating on solid par
ticles diffused in fluids does indeed produce a great variety
of ramifications in the process of crystallization : but these
are either uniform in each substance, or have a limited
number of changes ; and in no instance do we see the same
substance separating from the same medium, and, uncon-
fined in its movements, rival the numerous metamorphoses
of the cirrus.
   The great elevation of these clouds in their ordinary mode
of appearance has been ascertained both by geometrical ob
servations * and by viewing them from the summits of the
highest mountains, when they appear as if seen from the
plain.     A more easy and not less convincing proof maybe
had by noting the time during which they continue to re
flect the different coloured rays after sunset, which they do
incomparably longer than any others. The same configura
tion of cirrus has been observed in the same quarter of the
sky for two successive days, during which a smart breeze
from the opposite quarter prevailed below.
    It is therefore probable that this modification collects its
water in a comparatively calm region, which is sometimes
 incumbent on the current next the earth, and almost out of
 the reach of its daily variations in temperature and quantity
   *  "  The  small  white   streiks of condensed vapour which appear on
the face  of the sky in    serene  weather I have, by several careful obser
vations, found to be from three to five miles above the earth's surface."
 — Dalton.
    Vol. XVII. No.         65.          A  3                              of
         October    1803.

  6             On the Modifications    of Clauds, and
  of vapour; but at other times is interposed between th«
  latter and a supervening current from another climate, in
  which case it may be affected by both currents.
     The cumulus ha9 been just now considered as an insu
  lated body, consisting of perfectly moveable parts which
  accommodate themselves to the state of retaining electricity.
  We shall attempt to explain the nature of the cirrus by
  comparing it to those imperfect conductors, which being
  interposed between electrics and conductors, or between the
  latter in different states, serve to restore by degrees the equi
  librium of the electric fluid.
     If a lock of hair be properly fixed on the prime conductor
  and electrified plus, the hairs will be separately extended at
  as great a dis.tance from each other as possible ; in which
 state they will continue some time.         The reason appears to
  be, that the contiguous air is then minus ; and consequently
 these two moveable substances put themselves into the state
 most favourable to a communication which is but slowly
 effected between bad conductors.
     The same appearances will take place if the lock be elec
 trified minus, the contiguous air being plus ; and in each
 case the hairs will move from a body similarly electrified
 and brought near them, and towards one contrariwise elec
 trified, &c. Moreover, if we could insulate such a charged
 lock in the- midst of a perfectly tranquil atmosphere of
 sufficient extent, in which particles of conducting matter
 were suspended, the latter would be attracted by it so long
 as the charge continued; after which they would be at large
 as before.
     Dry air being an electric, and moist air but an indifferent
conductor, it is reasonable to suppose that an immediate
communication of electricity between masses of air differ
ently charged can scarcely happen to any great extent, ex
cept by the intimate mixture of such masses ; an occurrence
which may possibly result in some such cases, and occasion,
strong winds and commotions in the atmosphere.                If we
consider, how frequently, and to what an extent, the elec
tricity of the air is disturbed (as appears from numerous
experiments) by evaporation, by the formation and pas
sage of clouds, by elevation or depression of temperature,
(by friction upon surfaces of ice ?) it seems probable that
the particles of water floating in a calm space may be fre
quently converted into conductors, by which the equilibrium
is in part restored after such disturbance.
    Viewing the cirrus in this light, it becomes important for
those who are well versed in electricity to study its appear
                                                             ances.

         their Production, Suspension,    and Destruction.         J
 ances, and compare them with the changes that ensue in
  the atmosphere. A number of observations, made hitherto
 chiefly in one place, and without system or aid from con
 current ones in other places, have furnished the preceding
  data (see vol. xvi. p. 100), which may serve as hints for fu
 ture .investigation.
    At present we can only conjecture that the local detached
 cirri which ramify in all directions are collecting particles
 of water from the surrounding space, and at the same time
 equalizing their own electricity with that of the air or va
 pour.
    That when numerous oblique short tufts appear, they are
 conducting between the air above and that below them.
    That a decided direction of the extremities of pendent
or erected cirri from the mass they join towards any quar
 ter, is occasioned by the different electricity of a current of
air which is pressing upon the space they are contained in
 from thence. This is the most important point to attend
to, as these tails sometimes veer half round the compass
in the course of a few hours ; and many observations have
confirmed the fact that they point towards the coming wind,
and are larger and lower as this is about to be stronger.
    Lastly, that cirri in parallel lines stretching from horizon
to horizon denote a communication            of electricity carried
on through these clouds over the place of observation ; the
two predisposing masses of atmosphere being very distant,
and the intermediate lower atmosphere not in a state to
conduct it.     It is at least a circumstance well deserving in
quiry, by what means the clouds in stormy sea?.->ns become
arranged in these elevated parallel bars, which must be at
least 60 miles long, and are probably much more, considering
their elevation, and that both extremities are often invisible.
        Of the Nature    of the intermediate Modifications.
    The conversion of the cirrua into the cirro-cumulus is a
phasnomenon which at some seasons may be daily traced,
and serves to confirm the opinion that there exists some
what of the same difference between the cumulus and the
cirrus, as between a charged and a transmitting or an in
fluenced conductor among solid bodies. On this supposi
tion, the orbicular arrangement of the particles ought to take
place as soon as the mass has ceased to conduct from par-
licle to particle, or to be so acted on by a contiguous con
ductor as to have a plus and minus state within itself at the
same time : and as this sort of communication           in a cloud
may be as slow as in other imperfect conductors, the equi-
                                A   4                       hbnuin

6              On the Modifications        of Clouds, and
librium among the particles may be restored at one extre
mity some time before the other has ceased to transmit;
whence a visible progress of the change which may be traced
in a cirrus of sufficient length.
   That an extensive horizontal cirrus should become divi
ded across its ramifications,         that these divided parts
                                       and
should assume more or less            of
                                     round form, is also con
                                           a
sistent with the idea of a change of this sort*.      It is not
so easy to give a reason why these small orbicular masses
should remain in close arrangement, or even in contact, for
several hours, formirig a system of small clouds which yet
do not interfere with each other or run together into one,
but remain as it were in readiness to reform the cirrus,
which sometimes happens very suddenly, though they more
frequently evaporate by degrees.
   The same remark must be applied to the curious and
as it were capricious divisions and subdivisions, both lon
gitudinal and transverse, which happen in the cirro-stratus
when this cloud is verging towards the cirro-cumulus.        In
general, nevertheless, its appearance is sufficiently distinct
from that of the cirrus and cirro-cumulus.       The cirrus by
its great extent in proportion to its mass, its distinct lines
and angular flexures in all directions, and the cirro-cumulus
bv the roundness and softness of its forms, indicates an es
sential difference in the state of the containing atmosphere.
The cirro-stratus appears to be always in a subsiding state,
slowly diminishing bv evaporation or dispersion, and at the
same time more feebly acted upon by electricity than the
preceding modifications.     Indeed, the lower atmosphere is
usually pretty  much   charged with dew or haze at the time
of its appearance, and therefore in a state to conduct it to
the earth.
    Of   the Nature   of   the Compound     Modif cations, and      of     the
               Resolution    of   Clouds into Rain, cWc.
       From the theory of evaporation it appears that no per
    manent cloud can be formed in the atmosphere, however
    low the temperature, without a sufficient pressure from va
    pour previously diffused.  Hence, although in cold weather
    the breath and perspiration of animals, as also water at a
    certain excess of temperature, occasion a visible cloud, and,
   * A
         quickly evaporating cumulus so'iictimes leaves a regular cirrus
behind, formed out of the remnant of the cloud which in the interme
diate state, and just when it bcgfnr, to show the sky through        it,  ex
actly represents the pores and fibre of sponge.     This may be attributed,
to the quantity of electricity passing into or from the cluud. at that time.
                                                                           in

      their Production; Suspension,   and Destruction.         <J
in fact, from the same cause as heretofore stated, (the water
first condensed being followed by undiffused vapour j) yet
this cloud speedily evaporates again at all times, except when
precipitation is actually going on at large in the atmosphere
next the ground ; when it is only dispersed therein. By
comparing the different effects of a clear frosty air, and of a
misty though much warmer one, on the perspiration and
breath of horses warmed by labour, we may be assisted in
reasoning on the great case of evaporation, which, in some
sense, is the perspiration of the earth.
    The most powerful predispdsing cause of evaporation
appears to be a superior current in the atmosphere coming
from a region where the. low temperature of the surface, or
its dry state, occasions a comparative deficiency of vapour.
Hence, after heavy rain in winter, we sec the sudden evapo
 ration, first of the remaining clouds, then of the water on
the ground, followed by a brisk northerly wind and sharp
 frost.
    The very snow which had fallen on its arrival is some
 times totally evaporated again during the prevalence of such
 a wind.     On the contrary, the first appearance of clouds
 forming in cold weather gives us to expect a speedy remis
sion of the frost, although the cause is not generally known
 to be a change to a southerly direction already begun in
 the superior atmosphere, which consequently brings on an
 excess of vapour.
    This excess of vapour, coming with a superior current,
 may be placed next to depression of temperature among the
 causes of rain.     The simultaneous decomposition or the
 higher imported vapour, and of that which is formed on the
 spot, or already diffused in the inferior current, would ne
 cessarily produce two orders of cloud, differing more or
 less in electricity as well as in other respects.   To the slow
 action of these upon each other, while evaporation conti
 nues below, may be attributed the singular union which
 constitutes the cumulo-stratus.      It is too early in the pre
  sent state of the subject to attempt to define the precise
  mode of this action, or to sav by what change of state a
  cumulus already formed is thrown into this modification.
  That the latter phenomenon is an electrical effect, no one
  who has had opportunity to see its rapid progress during
  the approach of a thunder storm can reasonably doubt.
     To assert that rain is in almost every instance the result
  of the electrical action of clouds upon each other, might
  appear to many too speculative, were we even to bring the
  authority of Kirwan for   it,  which is  decidedly in favour of
                                                              this

 10           On the Modifications   of Clouds, &c.
 this idea: yet it is in a great measure confirmed by ob
 servations made in various ways upon the electrical state of
 clouds and of rain, not to insist on the probability that a
 thunder storm is only a more sudden and sensible display
of those energies which, according to the order observable
in the creation in other respects, ought to be incessantly
and silently operating for more general and beneficial pur
poses.
    In the formation of the nimbus, two circumstances claim
particular attention : the spreading of the superior masses
of cloud in all directions until they become, like the stratus,
one uniform sheet ; and the rapid motion and visible de
crease of the cumulus when brought under the latter.        The
cirri, also, which so frequently stretch from the superior
sheet upward, and resemble erected hairs, carry so much
the appearance of temporary conductors for the electricity,
extricated by the sudden union of its minute drops into the
vastly larger ones which form the rain, that one is in a
manner compelled, when viewing this phaenomenon, to in
dulge a little in electrical speculations.   By one experiment
of Cavallo's, with a kite carrying three hundred and sixty
feet of conducting string,       in an interval between two
showers, and kept up during rain, it seems that the su*
perior clouds possessed a positive electricity before the rain,
which on the arrival of a large cumulus gave place to a very
strong negative, continuing as long as it was over the kite.
We are not, however, warranted from this to conclude the
cumulus which brings on rain always negative, as the same
effect might ensue from a positive cumulus uniting with a
negative stratus. Yet the general negative state of the lower
atmosphere during rain, and the positive indications com
monly given by the true stratus, render this the more pro
bable opinion.    It is not, however, absolutely necessary to
determine the several states of the clouds which appear
during rain, since there is sufficient evidence in favour of
the conclusion, that clouds formed in different parts of the
atmosphere operate on each other, when brought near
enough, so as to occasion their partial or entire destruction ;
an effect which can only be attributed to their possessing
beforehand, or acquiring at the moment, the opposite elec
tricities.
    It may be objected that this explanation is better suited
to the case of a shower than to that of continued rain, for
which it does not seem sufficient. If it should appear,
nevertheless, that the supply of each kind of cloud is by
any means kept up in proportion to the consumption, the
           3                                          objection

                Account   of the Kookies or Lunctas.                11
 objection will be answered. Now, it is a well-known fact,
 that evaporation from the surface of the. earth and waters
 often returns and continues during rain, and consequently
 affords the lower clouds, while the upper are recruited from
the quantity of vapour brought by the superior current, and
continually subsiding in the form of dew ; as is evident both
 from the turbidness of the atmosphere in rainy'seasons, and
the plentiful deposition of dew in the nocturnal intervals of
rain.    Neither is it pretended that electricity is any further
concerned in the production of rain than as a secondary
agent, which modifies the effect of the two grand predis
posing causes —a falling temperature and the influx of va
pour.
    The theory of rain, however, was not intended to be dis
cussed in the present essay, which has already been ex
tended to the usual limits.           We may therefore conclude
with requesting, that those who possess the means, and
have acquired the habit of experimental observation, will
 take suitable opportunities to submit to this test the pre
ceding conjectures on the nature of several clouds. These
might have been extended further, but that the author was
unwilling to go beyond the line which the experiments
¦of several    eminent philosophers, and a few of his own,
seemed to point out as safe in the present state of the
subject.
    The author thinks he cannot more properly terminate
this essay than in publicly acknowledging the obligation he
lies under to his friend Silvanus Bevan jun. for his frequent
and zealous aid in his observations and drawings.
II.   Account of the Kookies or Lunctas         : written by John
    Macrae, Esq. and communicated to            the Asiatic Society
    by J. H. Harrington, Esq.*
 JL he Kookies are a race of people that live among the
mountains to the north-east of the Chittagong province,
at a greater distance than the Choomeeas from the inhabi
tants of the plains ; to whom therefore they are little known,
and with whom they very rarely have any intercourse, ex
cept when they occasionally visit the hauts, or markets, on
   * From the Asiatic Researches, vol. vii. Mr. Macrse, author of this
paper, is a surgeon in the honourable East India company's service ac
Chittagong, and received his information from a native of Runganeeah
who had king resided among the Cucis as their captive.
                                                                  the

12                Account   of the Kookies or Lunctas.
the borders of the jungles in the Runganeeah and Aurunga-
bad districts, to purchase salt, dried fish, and tobacco.
   The following account of them was taken from a native
of the Runganeeah district, who, when a boy, was carried
away, in one of their predatory excursions, and, after a
captivity of twenty years, found means to return to his
family.
   The Kookies, or Lunctas (as they are also called), are the
least civilized of any of the people we as yet know among
these mountains : like all mountaineers, they are of an ac
tive, muscular make, but not tall ; they are stouter, and of
a darker complexion than the Choomeeas*, and, like them,
have the peculiar features of all the natives of the eastern
parts of Asia, namely, the flat nose, small eye, and broad
round face.
   The tradition of the Kookies respecting their origin               is,
that they and the Mugs are the offspring of the same pror
gcnitor, who had two sons             by
                                     different mothers.      The
Mugs, they say,     are the descendants   of the eldest, and  the
Kookies of the youngest son. The mother of the youngest
having died during his infancy, he was neglected by his
step-mother, who, while she clothed her own son,                     al
lowed him to go naked and this partial distinction being
                             ;
still observed, as he grew up, he went by the name of
Luncta, or the naked. Upon the death of their father,                  a
quarrel arose between the brothers, which induced the
Luncta to betake himself to the hills, and there pass the
remainder of his days.      His descendants have continued
there ever since, and still go         the name of Lunctas
                                          by                           ;
though, properly speaking, the term           only applicable to
                                               is
the male part of them, as the females wear           short apron
                                                        a
before, made of cloth of their own manufacture, and which
falls down from the loins to the middle of the thigh         and ;
both sexes occasionally throw       loose sheet of cloth over
                                      a
their bodies to defend them from the cold.
   This tradition of their origin receives much support from
the great similarity of the Mug and Kookie languages, many
words of which are exactly the same, and their general re
semblance    issuch that Mug and Kookie can make them
                             a
selves understood to each other.
    The Kookies are all hunters and warriors, and are divided
into a  number of distinct tribes totally independent of each
   r Choomeeas arc- the inhabitants of the first
                                                 range of hills bordering
on the plains to the north ami cast of the province of Chittagong, and
are tributary to the honourable company their villages arc called cbcoms.
                                        ;
                                                                  other,

              Account   of the Kookies or Lunctas.            13
other, though all of them acknowledge, more or less, the
authority of three different rajahs, named Thandon, Man-
kene, and Halcha, to whom the various tribes are attached,
but whose power over them is very limited, except in that
tribe with which the rajah lives, where he is absolute. The
rajahships are hereditary, and the rajahs, by way of dis'tMie-
tion, wear a small slip of black cloth round their loins ;
and, as a further mark of superior rank, they have their
hair brought forward, and tied in a bunch, so as to over-
shade the forehead, while the rest of the Kookies have theirs
hanging loose over the shoulders. The females also of the
rajah's family wear an apron of black cloth with a red bor
der, which falls down to the knee, — a colour and fashion
             to the rest of the sex, black being the royal co-
        '
 our.
!>rohibited
   The rajahs receive a tribute in kind from the tribes to
support their dignity ; and, in cases of general danger, they
can summon all the warriors to arms ; but each tribe is
under the immediate command of its own particular chief,
whose word is a law in peace and war, and who has the
power of life and death m his tribe. The chieftainship is
not hereditary like the rajahship, but elective, though in
general the nearest relation of the last chief succeeds him,
if deemed by the tribe a proper person for the trust ; and
the rajah cannot remove a chief once elected, should he dis
approve of him.
   The Kookies are armed with bows and arrows, spears,
clubs, and daws, an instrument in common use among the
natives of this province, as a hand hatchet, and exactly re
sembling the knife of theNvarson the Malabar coast, which
is a most destructive weapon in close combat. They use
shields, made of the hide of the gyal, a species of cow pe
culiar to their hills ; and the inside of their shields they or
nament with small pendulous plates of brass, which make
a tingling noise as the warriors toss about their arms either
in the fight or in the dance.     They also wear round their
necks large strings of a particular kind of shell found in
their hills; about their loins, and on their thighs imme
diately above their knee, they tie large bunches of long
  oat's hair, of a red colour; and on their arms they have
f road rings of ivory, in order to make them appear the
more terrific to their enemies.
   The Kookies choose the steepest and most inaccessible
hills to build their villages upon, which, from being thus
situated, are called parahs, or, in the Kookie language,
k'hooah. Every parah consists of a tribe, and has seldom
                                                           fewer

14             Account    of the Kookies or Lund as.
fewer than four or five hundred inhabitants, and sometimes
contains one or two thousand. Towards our frontiers, how
ever, where there is little apprehension of danger, a tribe
frequently separates into several small parties, which form
so many different parahs on the adjoining hills as may best
suit their convenience.            To give further security to the
parahs, in addition to their naturally strong situation the
Kookies surround them with a thick bamboo pallisadc ; and^
the passages leading into them, of which there are com
monly four or five in different quarters, they strictly guard
day and night, especially if there is any suspicion ofdan-
ger ; but, whether there is or is not, they are at all times
extremely jealous of admitting strangers within the parah :
they build their houses as close to each other as possible,
and make them spacious enough to accommodate four or
five families in every house.              They construct them after
the manner of the Choomeeas and Mugs, that                 is,   on plat
forms or stages of bamboo, raised about six feet from the
ground, and enter them by ladders, or, more frequently, by
a  single stick, with notches cut in        it,   to receive the foot:
underneath the stages they keep their domestic animals.
All these precautions of defence strongly indicate the con
stant state of alarm     in    which they live, not only from the
quarrels of the rajahs with each other, but also from the
hostile feuds of the different tribes, not excepting those who
are attached to the same rajah. Depredations on each other's
property, and the not giving up of such refugees as may fly
from one parah to another, are the most frequent causes of
quarrel when they carry on most destructive petty warfare,
       j                         a
in which the several tribes are more or less involved accord
ing as the principals are more or less connected among them.
On these occasions, when an enterprise                isnot of sufficient
importance to induce the chief to head all the warriors of
the parah, he always selects        a     warrior of approved valour
and address to     lead   the party    to be  detached.
   They always      endeavour       to  surprise their enemy, in pre
ference    to engaging     him   in  open combat, however confident
of superiority they may be. With that view, when on anv
hostile excursion, they never kindle a fire, but carry with
them  a   sufficiency of readv-dressed provisions to serve dur
ing   the probable term of their absence          ;  they march in the
night, proceeding       with   the   greatest expedition, and observ
ing   the   most  profound      silence
                                     ;     when day overtakes them,
they halt,    and   lie concealed      in
                                        a    kind of hammoc, which
they   fasten  among     the  branches     of the loftiest trees, so that
they   cannot   be  perceived  by     any person passing underneath.
                                                                   From

               Account of the Rookies or Lunclas.             15
From this circumstance of ambuscade, the idea has origin
ated of their living in trees instead of houses.     When they
have in this manner approached their enemy unperceived,
they generally make their attack about the dawn, and com
mence it with a great shout, and striking of their spears
against their shields.    If they are successful in their onset,
they seldom spare either age or sex : at times, however, they
make captives of the children, and often adopt them into
their families, when they have none»of their own ; and the
onlv slaves among them are the captives thus taken.
     The heads of the slain they carry in great triumph to
their parah, where the warriors are met, on their arrival,
by men, women, and children, with much rejoicing ; and
they have the peculiar privilege of killing any animal in the
place they may choose (not excepting the chief's), to be
 triven as a feast in celebration of their victory : but, should
 the party have been unsuccessful, instead of being thus met
 with every demonstration of joy, and led into the parah
 amidst the exultations of its friends, it enters in the greatest
 silence, and as privately as possible; and all the warriors
 composing it remain in disgrace until such time as they
 retrieve their characters, either jointly or individually, by
 some act of valour.
     The Kookics are often attacked by the Banjoogees, who,
  though nor so numerous a race of people, yet, from being
  all united under one rajah, always prevail, and exact an
  annual tribute of salt from the two Kookie rajahs Than-
  don and Mankene,. who, from having a greater intercourse
  with the Choomeeas, receive a Jarger supply of this article
  from the plains below than their more remote neighbours.
  Salt is in the highest estimation among them all ; when
  ever they send anv message of consequence to each other,
  they always put in the hand of the bearer of it a small
  quantity of salt, to be delivered with the message, as ex
  pressive of its importance.      Next to personal valour, the
  accomplishment most esteemed in a warrior is superior ad
  dress in stealing: and if a thief can convey undiscovered to
  his own house his neighbour's property, it cannot after
   wards b£ claimed ; nor, if detected in the act, is he other->
   wise punished than by exposure to the ridicule of the parah,
   and being obliged to restore what he may have laid hold of.
      This must tend to encourage the practice of thieving;
   which, no doubt, is considered in such high estimation,
   because the same sagacity and address necessary to give
   success to the thief qualifies the warrior, in an eminent de
   gree, 10 steal unperceived upon and surprise his enemv, and

     1(5          Account    of the Kookies or Lunctas.
     thus ensures him victory.  So thought the antient warriors
     of Sparta, who, like the Kookies of the present day, held
     in estimation the man who could steal with superior ex-
     pertness.
          The Kookies, like all savage people, are of a most vin
      dictive disposition ; blood must always be shed for blood ;
      if a tiger even kills any of them near a parah, the whole
      tribe is up in arms, and goes in pursuit of the animal ;
      when, if he is killed, the family of the deceased gives a
      feast of his flesh in revenge of his having killed their rela
      tion.   And should the tribe fail to destroy the tiger in this
•
      first general pursuit of him, the family of the deceased must
      still continue the chace ; for, until they have killed either
     this or some other tiger, and have given a feast of his flesh,
     they are in disgrace in the parah, and not associated with by
     the rest of the inhabitants.     In like manner, if a tiger de
     stroys one of a hunting party, or of a party of warriors on
     a hostile excursion, neither the one nor the other (what
     ever their success may have been) can return to the parah,
     without being disgraced, unless they kill the tiger. A more
     striking instance still of this revengeful spirit of retaliation
     is, that if a man should happen to be killed by an accidental
     fall from a tree, all his relations assemble and cut it down ;
     and however large it may be, they reduce it to chips, which
     they scatter in the winds, for having, as they say, been the
     cause of the death of their brother.      They employ much of
     their time in the chace, and, having no prejudice of cast,
     or sect, to restrain them in the choice of their game, no
     animal comes amiss to them. An elephant is an immense
     prize for a whole parah.      They do not remove their parahs
     so frequently as the Choomeeas do their chooms : the
     Choomeeas seldom remain longer than two years on the
     same spot, whereas the Kookies are usually four or five ;
    and when they migrate they burn their parah, lest the gyals
     should return to  it,  as they are frequently known to do     if
    the huts are left standing.        The Kookies never go to     a
    greater distance from their old ground than        a    journey of
    twelve hours, unless compelled to proceed further from
    some particular cause, such as the fear of an enemy, or the
    want of proper spot to fix upon.
             a
         Their great object in selecting  a    place to settle on, is
    natural strength of situation, with       a   sufficiency of good
    ground near the parah on which to rear the different grains,
    roots, and vegetables they wish to cultivate. They cultivate
    the ground as the Choomeeas do      ;    and in this, as in every
    other domestic occupation, the female sex bears the weight

                Account   of the Kookies or Lunctas.            17
  ef the labour, and no     rank exempts them from it ; the wife
  ef the chief and the      wife of his vassal work alike in the
  tame field.
     A proper spot being found on the declivity of some hill
  contiguous to the parah, the men cut down the jungle upon
  it in the month of March, and allow it to remain there
  until sufficiently decayed to burn freely ; when they set it
  on fire, and thus at once perform the double purpose of
  clearing away the rubbish, and of manuring the ground with
  its ashes. The women now dig small holes, at certain di
  stances, in the spot so cleared, and into each hole they
 throw a handful of different seeds they intend to rear, which
  ere all jumbled together in a basket slung over the shoulder:
 the seeds are then covered with earth, and left to their fate ;
  when in due time, according to their various natures, the
  plants spring up, ripen, and are reaped in succession : rice,
  Indian corn, and the mustard plant, are thus seen in the
 lame field. Of rice they have a great variety, and two or
 three kinds peculiar to the hills : one of these, the chcreht
  is uncommonly fine, and has the peculiar quality of affect-
.ing, as a laxative, persons not in the habit of eating it. The
  Other sorts are called Left, deengkroo, roomkee, sepooee, bang-
 poo, and loulteh ; but it is not exactly ascertained, whether
  or not these are different species of grain, or the same kind
  receiving different names from the season of reaping it.
 The leh is reaped in July, the chereh in August, the deeng
  kroo in September, the roomkee in October, and in Novem
  ber the seepooee, langsoo, and loulteh.     They have another
 small grain called cutchoo, and a variety of beans, as the
 harass, burguddee, and tooraee ; the seed of the mustard
 plant they eat, but express no oil from it. Of the gourd
 and cucumber plants they have several kinds ; and turmeric,
 yams, and tobacco, they cultivate ; but the latter they have
 in small quantity, though very fond of it.
     In their forests they have abundance of honey, but are
 ignorant of the method of separating it from the w ax of the
 comb.
     Their domestic animals are gyals, goats, hogs, dogs, and
 fowls ; and of tbese_the gyal is by much the most valued,
 both on account of its muk and its flesh. As already men
 tioned, it is a species of cow peculiar to these hills, where
 h is met in its wild state : in shape it resembles the heavy
 strong make of the wild buffalo, but has much shorter
  horns : its colour is brown, acquiring a lighter shade to
 wards the belly, which, as well as the legs, is often white :
 its milk is nearly as rich as the cream of common cow milk,
     Vol. XVII. No. 65.            B                          and

  18            Account of the Kookies or Lunctas.
  and its flesh  constitutes the first luxury at a Kookie feast,
  and, except on very extraordinary occasions, is never given.
  The goats are larger and more hairy than those of the plains.
  In the other animals there is nothing peculiar. Notwith
  standing that the Kookies have such a number of different
  articles of food, yet a scarcity of provisions frequently pre
  vails among the tribes, when those upon a friendly footing
 always assist each other ; and whatever may have been thus
 amicably given is rigidly repaid, in more favourable times,
 by the tribe which received it. A scarcity may be occa
 sioned either by the irregularity of the season in a failure
 or excess of the periodical rains ; or else by the incursion*
 of enemies, who never fail to lay waste ana destroy, if they
 can, every thing to be found without the parah. And the
 parah itself, in a fatally unguarded hour, is often destroyed
 also ; when the helpless survivors, if any, of such a calamity
 are thrown upon the humanity of their neighbouring friends.
     In the parahs they cook their victuals in earthen pots of
 <U+2666>heir own manufacture resembling those of the Bengalees,
 but much stronger and thicker in substance.        The hunter,
 however, in his excursions through the forests, boils his
 food in a particular kind of hollow bamboo.          From the
 ashes of a different species of the same plant he extracts a
 Substitute for salt to eat with his victuals ; and with equal
 simplicity and readiness he kindles his fire by the friction
 of one piece of dried bamboo upon another. The Kookies
 have but one wife ; they may, however, keep as many con
cubines as they please. Adultery may be punished with in
 stant death by either of the injured parties, if the guilty are
caught by them in the fact ; it may otherwise be compromised
by a fine of gyals, as the chief may determine. The frailty
of a concubine is always compromised in this way, without
disgrace to the parties. Fornication is punished in no other
manner than by obliging the parties to marry, unless the
man may have used violence; in which case he is punished,
generally with death, either by the chief or by the relations
of the injured female.       Marriage is never consummated
among     them   before  the age of puberty.    When a young
man has fixed his affections upon a young woman either of
his own or some neighbouring parah, his father visits her
father, and demands her in marriage for his son : her fa
ther, on this, inquires what are the merits of the young
man to entitle him to her favour, and how many he can
afford to entertain at the wedding feast : to which the father
of the young man replies, that his son is a brave warrior, a
good hunter, and an expert thief] for that he can produce
                                                             so

                Account  of the Kookies or Lunctas.          19
 90 many heads of the enemies he has slain, and of the game
be has killed ; that in his house are such and such stolen
         ; and that he can feast so many (mentioning the num-
foods
  er) at his marriage. On hearing this, the father of the girl
either goes himself, or sends some confidential friend, to
ascertain the facts ; which if he finds to be as stated, he
consents to the marriage, and it is celebrated by a feast
given by him to the bridegroom and all their mutual friends.
At night the bride is led by her husband from her father's
house to his own, where he next day entertains the com
pany of the preceding day, which is more or less numerous
according to the connections and circumstances of the par
ties.     When a chief marries, the whole parah is entertained
by    him  ; and should his bride be from another parah, as
often happens, the two parahs feast and carouse with each
other alternately. At these, and all their festivals, there is
much drinking of a liquor made of the rice called deengkroo,
of which the Kookies are very fond. There are two kinds
of this liquor ; the one pure and limpid, and the other of a
red colour, from an infusion of the leaf of a particular tree
called langmullah, which renders it highly intoxicating.
They indulge very freely in the use of both kinds, except
when they go on hostile excursions : they then rigidly ab
stain from them. In January and February they usually
marry, because they have provisions in the greatest plenty,
and it is their most idle time.
    When any person dies in a parah, the corpse is conveyed
by the relations of the deceased, and deposited upon a stage
raised under a shed erected for the purpose at some distance
from the dwelling-house.          While it remains there, it is
carefully guarded day and night from the depredations of
dogs arid "birds by some one of the family, and a regular
supply of food and drink is daily brought and laid before it.
Should more than one casualty occur in a family, the same
ceremony is observed with respect to each corpse ; and at
whatever time of the year persons may happen to die in the
parah, all the bodies must be kept in this manner until the
 1 1 th of April, called by the Bengalees    Beeisoo.  On that
day all the relations of the deceased assemble, and convey
their remains from the sheds to different funeral piles pre
pared for them on a particular spot without the parah, where
they are burnt ; as are also the several sheds under which
the bodies had lain from the period of their decease. After
this melancholy ceremony is over, the whole party repairs
to the house of him in whose family the first casualty oc
curred in that year, and partakes of an entertainment given
by him in honour of the dead.           On the following day a
                                 B S                    similar

tb               Account    of the  Kookies or Luneita.
similar feast is given by him in whose family the next car-
sualty of the season had happened ; and thus the feast goes
round in succession until one is given for each of the dead.
    In this .pious preservation of the dead till a certain day in
the year, when only the last solemn funeral rites can be
performed to their remains, there is a singular coincidence
in the practice of the Kookies with that of some of the
tribes of the North American Indians, as related in Ber
tram's Travels ; and it must appear a curious fact, that ift
so very particular an instance there should be this similitude,
in the customs of two savage people placed in such oppo
site parts of the world ; where the climate, and other pecu
liar local circumstances, are so totally different.
   The Kookies have an idea of a future state, where they
are rewarded or punished according to their merits in this
world.     They conceive that nothing is more pleasing to the
Deity,   or  more certainly ensures future happiness, than de
stroying    a  number of their enemies. The Supreme Being
they   conceive      to be omnipotent, and the Creator of the
world and all that it contains.          The term in their language
for the Supreme Being is Khogein Pootteedvg. They also
worship an inferior deity under" the name of Sheem Sauk,
to whom they address their prayers, as a mediator with the
Supreme Being, and as more immediatelv interesting him
self in the concerns of individuals.          To tne Supreme Being
they  offer   in  sacrifice  a gyal, as being their most valued ani
mal ; while to Sheem Sunk they sacrifice a goat only.             In
every parah      they   have   a rudely   formed  figure of wood  of
the human shape representing Sheem Sauk; it is generally
placed under a tree, and to it they offer up their prayers
Before they set out on any excursion or enterprise, as the
deify that controls and directs their actions and destiny.
Whenever, therefore, they return successful, Whether from
the chace or the attack of an enemy, they religiously place
before Sheem Sank all the heads of the slain, or of their
game killed, as expressive of their devotion, and to record
tneir exploits.        Each waYrior has his oWn particular pile of
heads, and according to the number it consists of his cha
racter as a hunter and warrior is established in the tribe.
These piles are sacred ; ahd no man dares attempt to fileh
away his neighbour's fame, by stealing from them to add
fb his own.         i hey likewise worship the moon, as conceiv
ing it to influence their fortunes in sonic degree.          And in
every house there is a particular post consecrated to the
 deity, before which they always place a certain portion of
whatever food they ate about to eat.            In the month of Ja
nuary they have a solemn sacrifice and festival in honour
                                                                  of

               Account  of the Rookies or hunctas.            31.
 of the deity ; when the inhabitants of several neighbouring
 parahs (if on friendly terms) often unite, and kill gyals and
 all kinds of animals, on which they feast, and dance and
 drink together for several days. They have no professed
 ministers of religion, but each adores the deity in such
 manner as he thinks proper. They have no emblem, as
 of Sheem Sauk, to represent the Supreme Being.
    The Kookies having no coins among them, but such as
 find their way from the plains, for the few necessaries they
 want they barter their produce with the Choomeeas, who are
 the medium of commerce ; and on these occasions the Choo
 meeas are never allowed to enter their parahs, but are obliged
 to remain at a certain distance, whither the articles of ex
 change are brought : such is their extreme jealousy of ad
mitting any strangers within their parahs, as already no
 ticed. They frequently visit a Mug chief, commonly known
by the name of the Comlahpore rajah, who is settled among
 the hills in the southern parts of this district, and to whom
 they make themselves understood from the similarity of lan
guage.     They can give no account of the country to the
 eastward of their hills ; but they have a tradition that it is
 an open level country, like the plain of Chittagong.       The
 Kookies are a great terror to the Bengalees settled on the
borders of the jungles in the Runganeeah and Aurungabad
districts ; and a particular annoyance to the wood-cutters,
whose business leads them far into the forests, and whom
they have frequently surprised and cut off. Whenever an
unfortunate event of this nature has occurred, it has always
been remarked, that the Kookies carry nothing away from
the slain but their heads, and such salt as they may have
with them. They stand so greatly in awe of fire-arms, that
the report of a single musket will nut a whole party to flight :
on this account the rajah of the Choomeeas, who is so im
mediately in their neighbourhood, keeps in his service a
number of Pehluwans, or men with fire-arms : but, not
withstanding, his people have been obliged to abandon se
veral places oy the depredations committed by the Kookies.
Though the rajah is upon terms of friendship with some of
the tribes, yet, in the course of their migrations, these are
succeeded by others that he knows nothing of, and of whose
approach even he is ignorant until his people are cut off:
he is therefore under the necessity of being constantly pre
pared to repel these attacks, which, from being always made
in the night, it is impossible to guard against.
    The following is, a specimen of the Kookie language :
            Meepa                    Man.
                               B 3                      Noonaoo

22                On the Fecula       of Green Plants.
           Noonaoo                          Woman.
           Naoo                             A   child.
           Meepa Naoot'he                   A   male child.
           Noonaoot'he                      A   female child.
           P'ha                             Father.
           Noo                              Mother.
           Chopooee                         Brother.
           Ckarndo                          Sister.
           P'hoo                            Grandfather.
           P'hee                             Grandmother.
   Their numbers are reckoned thus :
           Katka                            One.
           Neeka                            Two.
           Toomka                           Three.
           Leeka                            Four.
           Rungaka                          Five.
           Rooka                            Six.
           Sereeka                          Seven.
           Rictka                           Eight.
           Koaka                            Nine.
           Soomka                           Ten.
   By combining        the first syllable of soomka with every in
termediate number, as soomkatlta, soomnekOj soomtcomka,
and so on, they reckon to twenty, which is roboka.                  The
same combination now takes place with roboka, the final
syllable ka being struck off; it goes on robokatka, robo-
neeka, &c, to thirty, which is expressed by soomtoomka,
or three tens.       Forty is soomleeka, or four tens ; fifty soom-
rungaka,    or   five   tens j and so on to a hundred, which is
expressed    by rezaka.          From rezaka the final syllable ka
being   struck     off,   a   similar   combination, as above, takes
place  with     neeka,      ioomka,     &c,   to one thousand, called
saungka.     The     preceding      rule of striking off the final ka is
observed with saimgka ; and thus they go on to hundreds
of thousands, beyond which their ideas of numbers do not
extend, as far as could be understood, from their having no
terms to express them.
III.  An Essay       on the Fecula        of Green Plants.     By Pro
                              fessor   Proust.
               [Concluded from our last volume,      p. nS.]
                           VI.    On Putrefaction.
Out      what then is putrefaction           ?    A   change  respecting
which   we have very few correct ideas.
                                                                  When

                     On the Fecula     of   Green   Plants.                   83
   When fecula, curd, flesh, or organized matters ingeneral
 havepassed a certain period of that change which    we are
accustomed to call putrefaction, they suddenly stop at a
permanent state, where unknown combinations seem to wait
for them, as if to salt and embalm them, as if to ensure
their duration in this new state, and to secure them from
 further destruction.
   •
     When, for example, curd, fecula, gluten, flesh, have
  passed through the stages of an infection often destructive,
  and those derangements of colour and form which disfigure
  them, and have at length attained, some to the caseous state,
 vegetables and dunghills to that of mold, turf, poudrette,
 and meat to such a state as not to be annihilated after fifteen
 years of an ichorous stagnation, they all stop at that point
 without being able to pass beyond                  it,
                                              and without ever
  reaching, at least in our observation, that final solution
 which ought to terminate their existence, or reduce them to
 an earthy inert matter, — non absimile cineribus, as Stahl ex
 presses it  ; in word, to state where no trace
                     a             a                    observed
                                                               is
 of the radicals which organized them.
     A putrefaction of this kind, strictly speaking, no where
 takes place.     But we no sooner perceive derangements in
 the organization of an animal or vegetable matter, lividity
 and bad smell, than we immediately imagine                 comit   is
 mencing;     and we   confound,  without perceiving  that we  do
 so, these appearances or phaenomena which belong to kind            a
 of fermentation little known, with the effects of that de
 composition which alone ought to lie accounted putrefac
 tion,— its end accords with the ideas we entertain of it,
         if
 andif  it be really that operation which nature has established
 to analyse, or resolve into their ultimate elements, those
beings subjected to it.
     Let us thence conclude that absolute putrefaction                   is   a
 thing with which we are entirely unacquainted.        But let us
 return to fecula    :   it time to review that which
                              is                            suffi   is
ciently divided to pass through the filter.
     Vli. We shall take, for example, the filtered juice of cab
bage, one of those which furnish fecula in the greatest
abundance and the better to show the difference which
              ;
there   is between this second fecula and albumen, we shall
subject the latter to the same tests.     The white of an egg
beat up in       pound of water, and filtered, will furnish the
                 a
liquor of comparison we require.
     1st. Immerse into water heated to 144 degrees two ma
trasses, one with filtered juice and the other with albumen.
The juice moment after becomes turbid,
              a                                           by
                                                  caseous flakes
                                   B   4                   which

  84              On the Feculd   of Green Plants.
  which fall to the bottom.       Albumen at that' temperature
  does not experience the slightest change.
      2d. Place over a furnace two matrasses, one with juice
  diluted in twenty parts of water, and the other with albu
  men.      But the fecula, however much diluted it may be,
  will still be entirely separated by the heat.   It is here that
  it clearly shows its insolubility.   In regard to the water of
  the albumen, in proportion as it is healed it becomes opa-
 lised without ceasing to be transparent: it boils and is
 concentrated, without depositing flakes or any thing that ha*
 a resemblance to fecula.        And if the evaporation be then
 completed in an open vessel, it leaves nothing but a varnish
 of white of ecg. Darcet had before informed us that al
 bumen dilutecT with a large quantity of water is no longer
 separable by heat.      Albumen is a soluble mucilage, fecula
 is not ; and the temperature which coagulates the latter
 makes no change in the state of the former.
     3d. Water of albumen may be kept several days without
 alteration : on the other hand, the juice of plants is in a con
 tinual state of change, which always disturbs its transpa
rency.      When a juice is filtered it becomes turbid, and it
 does not cease to deposit white fecula.
     4th. Albumen makes the juice of violets incline to a
 green colour, and reddens turnsole to blue.        White fecula
when washed produces none of these changes : and how
should it ? The juice of cabbages, hemlock, and many
 other plants, makes turnsole red.        Albumen however has
not the property of communicating a green of itself : we
know that it i3 indebted for it to a mixture of alkali.
     5th. Alcohol separates from the water of albumen light
transparent shining flakes, which on the filter retain the ap
pearance of baked white of egg.        The juice of plants with
alcohol gives only an opake whitish powder, which spee
dily falls to the bottom of the vessel.
     6th. AM acids, hydro-sulphurated water, and ammonia,
precipitate the fecula dissolved in juices; but these re-agenU
make no change in water of albumen.
    Oxygenated muriatic acid precipitates and oxidates white
fecula. The same acid first oxidates and then precipitates
albumen,
     7th. Crystallized carbonate of potash, magnesia, muriate
of    soda, muriate of potash, muriate of ammonia, nitrate
of potash, &c. when thrown into filtered juice force the
fecula, which is naturally very little soluble, to be precipi
tated as it is dissolved. Water of albumen is not rendered
turbid by any of these salts.
                                                          Conse-

                      On the Fecula                 of Green Plants.                        34
                                      Consequences.
    White fecula deposited spontaneously, or by alcohol, by
 acids, salts, &c. is insoluble in water: on the other hand,
 acids which precipitate fecula do not alter solution of albu
 men.
    No salt is capable of separating albumen from water ; but
 the contrary is the case with fecula : it adheres so weakly to
 water that there is not one of them which does not separate
it,   and consequently oblige        to be deposited.
                                               it
    White of egg dried and left to soften returns to the same
 volume, opacity and whiteness, as baked albumen.                  The
case with white feculae          different they acquire
                                          is              :     strong            a
brown colour.        The greater part even become entirely black
in drying, as those of cresses, cabbage, the solarium licoper-
 sicum, &c. and ;         they become soft
                               if                   water they never
                                                               in
assume the appearances observed in white of egg.                  In                        a
word, this fecula        nothing else than
                               is                 part of the gluten
                                                              a
 which forms the base of green fecula. Thus, for example,
if  the fecula of white cabbage, separated              the filter, be  by
 compared     with  that which  the  juice of   gives by heat, both
                                                              it
 deprived   of  colouring   matter,    the smallest   difference will
not be found. But            the white fecula in particular which
                                it   is
dissolves easiest, because        not, like green fecula,
                                          it   is                 state           in  a
of combination, which opposes its solution. All plants
 contain   a portion of gluten, which not having been vivified
by   the light remains colourless.
    Cabbage, succory, escarolle, and plants blanched                the                by
art of the gardener, give also white fecula, but in much
less quantity than when they remain green.             The stem of
the cabbage and that of hemlock give pale fecula in com
parison of that produced                       by
                                    their leaves.     But vegetables
in general have not always need of being highly coloured
externally to announce their abundance in gluten. The
small joubarbe gives abundance of well coloured fecula,
which      isparticularly rich in wax, as will be seen here
after.
    VIII. But may be said, As albumen the only product
                     it                                            is
which has been remarked to possess the property of coagu
lating     byheat,     seems natural thence to conclude, &c.
                          it
But milk of almonds curdles also            heat,        by
                                                      alcohol, acids,   by
&c. This        is
                 a fact well known in apothecaries' shops          and                ;
yet   ithas never been concluded from this appearance that
emulsions contain white of egg because, even         ;     characters        if
of animalization were observed in the principles of emul

 26                    On the Fccula   of Green Plants.
  sion, it ought to exhibit other traits of a very striking na
  ture before it could be treated as albuminous*.
     It is under this point of view also that we ought to con
  sider the gluten of fccula, since it is neither tenacious nor
  elastic, nor susceptible of fermentation like that of wheat t-
 Rouelle, in announcing it to chemists as a product analo
 gous to that of wheat, wished only to exhibit a part of the
 characters which give them a similarity, those only which
 belong to the nature of their constituent principles, since ex
 ternal characters of resemblance do not exist: my object
 therefore, in defending the labours of that great master, is
 much rather to maintain in the catalogue of his discoveries
 that of an animalized matter found particularly in leaves,
 than gluten properly so called, because this indeed is the
 discovery which the author of the System of Chemical
 Knowledge has rendered problematical in his work. Destroy
 the aggregation in animalized matters ; deprive silk, horn,
 wool, feathers, &c. of their form ; it is evident then that,
 considered in their constituents alone, they will be albumen,
gluten, febrinc matter, any, every thing you please ; because,
 if these constituents are every where the same, which has
 never yet been examined, and what would be the only means
 to establish the difference between them, would be to fix
 the proportions according to which nature has united them
 to give them existence.
     But it may be added, If albumen does not issue from
juices with characters so striking as you desire, we must
 pay attention to the extract, the salts and the acids, which
 are always found along with             it,
                                        and which must disguise
it   a little :   it  particularly in the water with which the
                       is
 farina has been washed that you ought to search £>r          to          it,
              that state of purity which will leave no doubt in
         it
 find    in
regard to its nature.       Let us see then what the washing of
the farina    will exhibit.
  *
      The comparison which Rnuelle made of the green juice of plants te
an emulsion   rests on      much better foundation than he imagined.
                            a                                              The
cheese separated from the milk of almonds        by one of these means, when
 washed and diicd, gives oil by expression, and then all the products of
caseum   by distillation.    This no doubt  is   the reason why almonds and
all kinds of nuts give      by
                             nitric acid so large quantity of azote.
                                                   a
   The whev of almonds contains gum,           a  little extractive matter, and
sugar, which      is cither of the kind obtained from the sugar cane, or of
that which  I  discovered in grapes, and which       I  shall describe
                                                                     in  speak,
ing of fermentation.
\     The gluren of wheat         susceptible of
                                 is              a fermentation peculiar to     it.
The gases thence disengaged in abundance are, the carbonic acid, and
hydrogen pretty pure.
                                                               IX.    Water

                    On the Fecula  of Green Plantt.              27
      IX. Water employed in washing farina, like the juice
 recently filtered, is in a state of alteration, which continually
 increases, and which does not stop till-the acid which arises
 from the fermentation of the saccharine principle has
 finished the precipitation of the gluten.
      All the acids and all the salts which we have applied to
juices operate in the same manner on the water of farina.
Alcohol produces the same effect: but vinegar does not,
 because it dissolves the gluten.        In a word, it is not by
 coagulation that acids separate gluten from juices and from
 the water of farina, since ammonia and salts do the same ;
 but rather by seizing on the solvent of a substance which
 seems to derive its solubility from a pure and simple division,
 and not from an affinity comparable to that which unites
 gums, sugar, and aibumen to water.
      Water of farina exposed to a heat of 145. degrees aban
 dons the gluten as it does the juice of plants. To dilute it
 in a very large quantity of water is not sufficient to give
 solubility to gluten : on the least exposure to heat it falls of
 itself.
       I have collected so much as an ounce of gluten which
  heat separated from washings.         Kept in its own moisture
  it fermented, produced vinegar and ammonia. It is now
  after two years an obscure cellular mass, odorous and savoury
  in the same degree as the cheese of gluten.
      Let us then conclude that albumen has not yet appeared
  in vegetables.      But we shall not therefore say that it cannot
  be formed there as well as in animals.         The age in which
  we live, being more abundant than ever in observations,
  daily proves that there are but few products in either king
  dom whieh can be considered as really exclusive.            It will
   however be allowed, that to establish the existence of al
  bumen by excluding the gluten of green plants, the learned
   author of the System of Chemical Knowledge has trusted
   too much to the slender support of mere appearance. Before
   he announced albumen he ought, in my opinion, to have
   strengthened his first observation by more conclusive facts
   than that of concrescibility alone. But let us not forget that,
   in so vast an enterprise as this, it is difficult for an author
   to cut out with equal precision all the materials of his edi
   fice.
        It will be with the same view that I shall extend these
   conclusions to other products which Fourcroy, without suf
   ficient examination, has placed among the glutinous sub
   stances    of vegetables.
                                                            "There

  58              On the Fecula    of  Green   Plants.
     "There exists,"    says he,
                                 " an observation      more exact and
  more positive than that of Bouetle in regard to the presence
  of this glutinous matter in the vegetable tissue which forms
 flax ana paper," &c* To call the author's attention to this
  passage is sufficient.   More details on my part would have
 too much the appearance of censure. Fourcroy no doubt
 will suppress it m a new edition, as well as that of the paste
 of the mallows. If the paste of the mallows had a right
 to assume a place among the animalized products of vege
 tables, we ought to place there also the paste of almonds,
 paste of eggs, of marmalade, &c.
    In regara to glue, which is found in the same chapter,
 every body knows that it is merely a kind of turpentine, an
 inflammable aromatic resin, soluble in alcohol, which vege
 tation forms in the filamentous tissue of the holly ; in the
 fruit of the elder tree, its bark perhaps, and that of other
 individuals, but under no point of view a glutinous sub
 stance.
    X. Potash readily dissolves green fecula and divides it into
two parts : one attaches itself to the solvent, and the other
separates itself under the form of
 cannot be attacked by new potash. This powder, when
washed and dried, gives by distillation the products of white
wood and of flax : that is to say, nothing ammoniacal.
This is the ligneous part, which is generally introduced into
fecula by trituration.
    This solution has all the characters of an animal solution :
it exhales ammonia ; it blackens the silver pan ; and, by the
action of acids, emits effluvia which darken traces made by
white metals.
    But here, as in soap from wool, a great part of the fecula
experiences a degradation which deranges the mode*and pro
portion of its radicals. Acids separate from it but very little
fecula : the rest assumes an extractive character which dis
poses it to unite with water.        Neither alcohol nor acids can
separate this new extract from salts.         It is of a fawn colour,
and muriate of tin precipitates from it an obscure lake. Ia
regard to the other, when collected and washed on a filter
it exhibits this singularity, that it has not lost the property
of crisping by the heat of boiling water.
    Alcohol extracts from precipitated fecula a green colour
more charged than from that which is fresh. This arises
from the resin, which is not destructible like gluten, at-
                          * Vol. vii. p.
                                         195.
                                                             taching

                   On the Fecula     of   Green   Plants.        Sf>
taching itself in greater quantity to that which has saved
itself from destruction.     In a word, this fecula gives by
distillation  ammoniacal   products.
   XI. An acid of eighteen or twenty degrees of the areo
meter disengages in abundance the azote from green fecula.
A stronger acid dissolves it with facility, and separates from
it a little of the powder, which is the ligneous remains of
the plant. With whatever oeconomy the nitric acid is ma
naged, the oxalic acid is rarely obtained crystallized.   It re
solves itself into water and carbonic acid.
    Solution of fecula always contains the bitter yellow of
Welter, sulphuric acid, benzoic acid, oxalate of lime and
tallow.     If the solution of fecula charged with iron, that
of solanum licopersicon, be precipitated with acetite of
lead, a powder composed of oxalate and phosphate of lead
 and of oxide of iron is obtained. By heating it with the
 blowpipe the lead is burnt and even dissipated, and nothing
 remains but a globule of phosphate of iron.
    When a vegetable product contains azote, sulphur, phos
 phorus, benzoic acid, tallow, bitter yellow and iron in
 abundance, one. may rest assured that it belongs to the class
 of animalized substances.
                               Of Wax.
   XII.   Wax is the work of vegetation, and not of bees.
ft  is, in my opinion,         by
                               nourishing themselves with the
gluten,  which   accompanies      in the farina of the stamina,
                                     it
that they effect    separation
                    a           of  it. This farina gives abun
dance of ammonia, which induces me to believe that                it
contains gluten and at present, since have discovered wax
                    ;                         I
in certain feculae,    presume that
                          I             this farina were treated
                                            if
with nitric acid wax might be found in it.
    Fecula of the small joubarbe gave me         quantity which
                                                        a
Surprised  me.   This   wax   white,
                                is
                                      dry  and   britde, and has
no smell  :    cannot be confounded with the sebaceous pro
              it
ducts given by other feculae, those of hemlock and of the
solanum.     Messrs. Fernandez and Chabaneau, to assure
themselves of       it,
                    examined        it,
                                chewed            it,
                                            and were convinced
 that this product     nothing else than perfect wax.
                          is
    The fecula of green cabbage gave me some of also, but   it
 much less.     Wax appears to me to be the varnish which
 vegetation extends over plants to secure them no doubt
 from the effects of mouldiness, which might injure their
 health.  It   isthis varnish which divides rain and dew into
 pearly drops on the cabbage leaves, those of the poppy, and
 many -others which exhibit to us that agreeable spectacle in
                           S                                  our

    30              On the Fecula    of Green Plants.
    our gardens.    It is this wax that the curious gardener, when
    he presents a plum, a fig, or a bunch of grapes, is so de
    sirous of preserving, that he avoids touching them as much
    as possible with his fingers.
       At Paris, when an orange is taken from the paper cover
    ing in which it has been conveyed from Portugal, it is seen
    covered with a farinaceous coating, which may be removed
    by the blade of a knife, and applied to a taper to melt it
    and ascertain its nature.
       The fecula of opium contains also a kind of tallow which
   approaches near to wax by its strong consistence, and which
    several apiologists have mentioned.
       Raw silk also is covered with wax, which alcohol removes
   from it along with its colour, and which is separated from
   it by cooling.
                     Of   some Feculce less knoiun.
       XIII. When five or six pounds of saffron are treated to
   gether, to obtain from it the volatile oil and extract, there is
   observed in the decoction a fine dust which renders it turbid,
   deposits itself, and may be separated by straining through a
   cloth.    This powder when washed shrinks on drying, and
   becomes grained like green fecula in summer : it speedily
   becomes putrid, and filled with worms, if not carefully pre
   served. This fecula by heat gives all the products of gluten.
  With alkalies and lemon juice it communicates to silk a
   very brilliant yellow dye.
                                 Borage.
   ¦
      A  plant may   contain   gluten in two states ; one in the fe
  cula, and the other dissolved in its juice by means of pot
  ash: of this kind is the juice of borage : when clarified it
  is thick and of a sea-green colour ; some drops of acid se
  parate from it a caseous curd, which is collected by the filter,
 and which is nothing else than gluten.
                                  Elder.
      Elderberries, amidst a juice strongly coloured, exceedingly
 gummy,       and slightly saccharine, contain a fecula as green
 as that of spinach.       When it has been well freed from the
 red colour, alcohol extracts from it a green tincture : the
 rest is gluten, which is in nothing different from that of
 fecula.
      When these berries are bruised their glue adheres to the
 fingers : it has the same consistence as that of holly. Their
juice left to ferment gives a very small quantity of spirit,
                                                             which

        Journey to the Summit of the Peak of Teneriffe.              31
which has a disagreeable odour.           It is followed by an asto
 nishing quantity    of  very good    distilled   vinegar.
                             Buck-thorn.
    The juice of buck-thorn, which contains a bitter nauseous
 extract, gum, and a little sugar, is thickened by a greenish
 dirty matter, which is separated from it by heating it and
leaving it to ferment.       This pulp when well washed is of a
bright green colour : it is gluten mixed with a little febrine
 matter : it gives carbonate of ammonia, &c.
                                  Rose.
    Its petals triturated furnish fine fecula slightly coloured,
 which gives the same products as gluten.
                                Grapes.
    Fecula is found in great abundance in grapes : it forms
the lees in wine: but to speak of this product would
be anticipating       what I have to say on fermentation.
 Gluten is found also in quinces, apples, and no doubt in
other fruits ; it is found in the acorn, chestnut, horse-chest
nut, rice, barley, rye, pease and beans of all kinds.                   I
 shall resume the subject hereafter, on the difference between
wheat which has germinated and that which has not under
gone this operation.
IV.    Account   of a Journey to the Summit of the Peak                of
    Teneriffe:   in a Letter from L. Cordier, Engineer                of
    Mines,   to C. Devilliers junior *.
                                                Santa-Cruz, in Teneriffe,
      MY DEAR FRIEND,                                 May I, 1803.
A have terminated my          seventh geological campaign by a
most interesting excursion.         I had examined, with Neer-
gard, the extinguished volcanoes in the centre of France,
In the Pyrenees and Catalonia we discovered the immense
remains of the antient strata of the globe, and the manner
in which they have been covered by modern strata, which
contain vestiges of an antique organization having no re
semblance to that of the present age.            I followed these ob
servations in the interior of Spain, in the Sierra-Morena, as
far as the famous Strait of Gibraltar, where my conjectures
on the forces which determined the ultimate form of the
continents received a new degree of probability.              I had met
           * From  the Journal dt Physique, Messidur,   an. 11.
                                                                   with

 32                 Account   of a Journey to the
with almost all the        species of strata which enter into iht
 composition of the globe, including rock salt, bitumen, and
 sulphur.     In the last place, I had conceived an idea of some
of those memorable epochs when Nature exercised the ener
getic power she formerly possessed of creating and destroy
ing, of raising or depressing, in order to bring our planet to
its present state.     It remained for me to go to one of those
sanctuaries to which she in some measure retired after finish
ing her labour, where her activity is from time to time
awakened, and gives proofs of existence which are sufficient
to occasion terror and desolation among us. Do you not
agree with me in opinion, that it is there only that one can
be able to conceive by analogy the kind and the energy of
the means which she must have displayed in the earliest pe
riods ? The hope of acquiring some ideas in regard to the
Atlantide fixed my determination. And, indeed, could I
venture to form conjectures respecting the existence of that
country so celebrated and so problematical, but on the peak
of Teneriffe?
   We left Cadiz on the 4th of April, and had a pleasant
passage : a shark, two tortoises, and a kind of spermaceti
whale, were the only living objects we met with.          I made
some researches, but without success, in regard to those
phosphorescent bubbles which appear in the sea water during
the dark. On the 1 1th I traversed with eagerness a soil al
most unknown to the naturalist.           I beheld with pleasure
the palm tree, the cotton shrub, the cactus, the coffee, and
the banana tree, amidst a variety of others with which I
was entirely unacquainted. The olive tree of Madeira, clea
madeirensis ; the tree which produces dragon's blood, dra-
cena draco ; the lignum rhodium, and convolvulus floridus
which produces the rose wood so valuable, and an immense
quantity of large euphorbias, among which were the eu
phorbia tenariensis and the euphorbia maurttatrica, attracted ¦
my attention as much as the broad triangular faces and yel
low complexion of the inhabitants of the country.           It is
easily perceived that their blood is mixed with that of the
antient islanders.      I have since thought that it misrht be a
punishment of nature, who took advantage of the inconti
nence of the conquerors to preserve the remembrance of
theirr ferocity, by imprinting on the figure of their descend
ants the fentnres of the Guancbcs, .whom they cruelly de
stroyed, and with so little advantage.
   On the 15th I was on the northern coast of the island:
my instruments were repaired at nine in the morning, and
I had removed the obstacles which ill-founded opinion had
                                                        opposed

                 Summit     of the Peak  of Teneriffe.
 opposed to my enterprise of ascending the peak so early in
  the season.     It is to be remembered that two gentlemen in
  the suite of lord Macartney were not able to succeed in the
  month of October 1 792, on account of the cold and snow ;
  and that at a later period captain Baudin was in danger of
  perishing there in the month of December.            No person,
 therefore, was tempted to accompany me.
    At six o'clock in the morning of the 16th I left the port
 of Orotava, trusting to the fine weather, and still more to
 my being accustomed to the snow and ice in the high moun
 tains.    I had with me a guide, a mule laden with water and
 provisions, and a mule driver.          The peak stands in the
 southern part of the island, on an eminence which rises
 more than 1 100 toises above the level of the sea.       The day
 was employed in ascending to the bottom of this colossal
 peak.
    Less time could not be employed in passing from the
 tropic to the polar ice.        We travelled for five hours over
 gentle  acclivities   covered  with  the richest and most luxu
 riant vegetation.        All the flowers in bloom exhaled the
 most delicious perfume, and the mildness of the tempera
 ture was equal to the sweetness of the air. On this occa
 sion I could not help calling to mind Tasso, Armida, and
 the delights of the Fortunate Islands of antiquity.          We
 were a long time in the middle of an immense wood of lau
 rels, and a tall kind of heath, the elegant stems of which
 were covered with white blossom.           Pines then announced
 to us a soil more ungrateful, because more elevated.        The
 lava of currents, hitherto concealed by vegetation, began to
 appear in all their aridity and confusion.        The pines were
 soon succeeded by a large species of broom, sparlium m-
pramtbium, which extends to the eminence, where its dis
 mal bushes, scattered over heap3 of scoria or plains of vol
 canic sand, participate only with some lichens, the property
 of the driest and most arid desert that can be imagined.
    We halted on a small sandy plain of pumice stone, bor
dered by two enormous currents of vitreous lava : some
blocks of this lava, ranged in a semicircle, form here what
is called stanza de lus Ingleses, where we reposed for the
night under a most beautiful sky. The barometer stood at
 19 inches 9*5 lines, and the thermometer at 4*9 degree?.
According to a corresponding observation made at the port,
we were 1529 toises above the level of the sea. I was much
astonished to see the broom, but indeed stunted, live at that
elevation.     A good fire which we made defended us frcm,
the intensenes3 of the cold.
    Vol. XVII. No. 65.              C                        The

34                   Account   of  a Journey to the
    The night was delightful, without a cloud, and scarcefy
a   breath of air stirring.     The colour of the sky appeared tiy
be   a   very intense black : the stars sparkled with an exceed-*
ing bright light, by the help of which we faintly perceived
the obscure vapours that veiled every thing, below us.
Every time I rose to observe the thermometer, I employed
a considerable time in enjoying the charms of so rare and
 so beautiful a situation.       Raised to that height in the at
mosphere,       seated  quietly  on  that enormous mass of smok
ing     ruins insulated  in  the  ocean,  being alone awake amidst
the silence of nature, I admired with religious awe the ma
jesty of its sleep; I recalled past events, and waited with
 out impatience for the hour when I was going to satisfy the
 curiosity which had brought me so far to visit one of the
 oldest volcanoes of the earth.
     At a quarter before five the thermometer fell to three
 degrees below zero.        It was now day-light, and I set out
 with my guide. The acclivities are rapid, and formed by
 heaps of ruins which cover the currents. We had always to
 clamber up large masses of scoria? and vitreous lava ex
 ceedingly sharp and rough.           The snow retained in the fur
 rows formed by the currents was fortunately solid.             I took
 advantage     of it to ascend   from  time to time  in a less painful
 manner.       Towards the summit we no longer found any
 thing but pumice stones, exceedingly fatiguing by their in"
 clination and mobility.          Without advancing too fast, we
 arrived at the end of three hours at the summit of the peak.
 To look to the bottom of the crater then behind me, and to
 survey the immensity of the horizon, was the affair of a
 moment ; to enjoy the accomplishment of a project which
  I had long formed, was the affair of a second. The former^
 my dear Devilliers, was certainly worth the latterv
     When my first eagerness was satisfied, I ensured my po-'
 sition on the most elevated edge.          It is impossible to walk
  round the crater : it is necessary to remain on the northern
 part by which you have ascended. It appeared to me proper'
  to place my instruments a little lower, to shelter them from
  the sulphureous vapours which the wind agitated above the
  crater befoTe it carried them away. When I returned to my
  post I hoisted a flag, to announce my success to my good
  friends at the port of Oratava, and I quietly communicated
  to them the observations I had made.             A line of vapour
  marked out on the horizon the separation of the sea and the
  air, forming an immense and perfect circle. On the smooth
  curface of this truly boundless plain arose the isles of Ferro,
  Canary, Gomera, and Palmo, which seemed to crowd around
      -                                                            that

                Summit  of the Peak  of Teneriffe:            35
that awful mass which hangs over them.           Each of them
was ornamented with a band of light clouds, which extended
several leagues in the north-east in a direction contrary to
that of the trade wind. The sun, now near the tropic, dif
fused in tranquillity a most splendid light over the waters
of the ocean. The atmosphere was as pure and as trans
parent as it was calm.     My sight, however, was not suffi
ciently strong to distinguish the islands of Fuerte -Ventura
and Lanzarotta, the profile of which was designed in the
horizon at the moment of sun-rise : but I saw distinctly
every thing around me; andj with the famous passage of
Plato in my hand, I was able to examine whether I was
Standing on the remains of the Atlantide.
    This research was naturally connected with the most ge
neral observations ; but I soon found that it ought only to
be a consequence of them.      I obtained in succession all the
proofs I could desire of the distinction which I had already
made of two orders of volcanic matters.      The modern lava
has been thrown up amidst the ruins of an antient system
of ejected matter much older, the immense fragments of
which form the skeleton of the island, and sustain the emi
nence on which the peak is raised.       Their greatest ridges,
turned towards the summit, rise to more than 300 toises
above all the new products.       Their torn flanks exhibit a
series of thick strata, almost all declining towards the sea,
and composed alternately of ashes, volcanic sand, pumice
stone, and compact lava often prismatic, porous lava and sco
riae. An innumerable quantity of new currents, which have
flowed down from the peak, or which have issued from its
sides, mark but a multitude of irregular furrows, which turn
round or pass along the edges of these antique masses, and
lose themselves in the sea on the western and northern side.
More than eighty craters are dispersed throughout these cur
rents, and increase with their remains the confusion which
seems every where to prevail : in a word, the subterranean
agents have not even respected the evidences and remains of
their antient energy ; they have pierced in many places the
shreds of the antient strata, and new ejected matters have
freely extended themselves over their declivities.
    This antient volcanic system extended much further be
 fore its destruction:   several of its enormous fragments
 insulated in the sea are a proof of it.      It has been de
 stroyed by forces similar to those which have opened the
 last valleys on the continents : this is proved by the form
 and respective position of the ruins.    But is its destruction
                             C2                                to

 36                  Account  of a Journey    to tlie
  to be ascribed to one and the same period ? I am inclined
 to think it is but in consequence of probabilities deduced
  from all the facts which relate to that grand epoch.
     I shall not speak in detail of all those observations which
  cannot appear insulated ; such as the existence of obsidian
  stone and petro-silex in currents, the incontestable transi
  tion of obsidian stone to pumice stone, &c. My position
  was too favourable not to take advantage of it in every man
  ner possible. I rectified by the compass the large chart
  published by Lopes ; and I several times repeated the only
  experiment I could make on the magnetic needle, namely,
  that on its inclination I always founcT it more than five de
  grees towards the south pole.       At the height at which I was
  placed,  the   solar rays had  not   yet traversed two-thirds (in
  weight)   of  the  atmosphere.    I shall  add some remarks to
  those I have already made on the origin and distribution of
  free heat in the atmosphere, in regardto the intensity of the
  rays, the density of the strata, and the height above th*
  earth.
     The puffs of vapour which warmed me from time to
  time, at length attracted me into the crater. One can de
  scend into it 6nly by three. indentations : its edges are per
  fectly steep in the inside, and highest towards the north :
  it is of an elliptic form, and may be about 1200 feet in
  circumference and 110 in depth. Proceeding from the steep
  edges, the declivities consist of a snow-white earth, which
 forms a contrast with the beautiful orange colour and the
  bright splendour of the crystals of the sulphur which cover
  all the still solid masses.   This earth results from the de
 composition of the blackest and hardest vitreous and por-
 phyritic lava: it is continually softened by a very hot mois
 ture : one therefore glides rather than descends to the bot
 tom of the crater. The whole, however, is solid ; and the
 lowest part is occupied by blocks, which crumble down from
 the steep edges according as these matters are decomposed,,
 and sink into the interior of the gulf.
     The vapours, which issued in abundance from among
 these blocks and an infinite number of crevices, certainly
 came from the depth of several leagues, and retained a great
 intensity of heat.      The thermometer exposed in a crevice
speedily rose to 80 degrees, and no doubt would have risen
higher had the tube been longer.          To my great astonish
ment, I found that this scorching vapour was composed
only of sulphur and water perfectly insipid. I searched, but
in vain, for traces of sulphureous acid, soda, and hydrogen
                                                               ga»»

                     Summit   of   the Peak   of Teneriffe.
                                                                          ij
  gas. What surprised me most, was to find close to the in
   crustations of sulphur, which it forms in a short time, real
  opal in thin mamellous plates.
       Having ascertained the discovery of a formation so sin
  gular, I ascended, to terminate by barometric observations.
   I  shall here mention only the first, because the rest gave me
  the same results in the calculation, a few differences more
  or less excepted.         At eight o'clock, at the distance of a
  toiie and a half from the summit, the barometer was at
   18 inches 4 lines, and Reaumur's thermometer at 6-9 de
  grees. At the same hour, Mr. Little, an Englishman, who
  observed at the port with excellent instruments, the preci
  sion of which I had verified, found the barometer at 28
  inches 5*6 lines, and the thermometer at 19*9 degrees:
  the station was seven toises above the level of the sea. The
  result of these data, corrected according to Deluc's method,
  and then increased by eight toises and a half, makes the
  height of the peak to be 1901"2 toises above the level of
  the sea.
      This is far from the height of ten Italian miles, assigned
  to   it by Ricciolo and Kircher ; and the latter is nothing in
  comparison of the 15 marine leagues ascribed to it by Tho
  mas Nicols.         Why then should people convert into fabu
  lous wonders every thing great and curious produced by
  nature ?      Do they imagine that by every thing they add in
  their extravagant accounts they increase the feeble merit of
  having seen them ?
      What has been said in regard to the intensity of the cold,
  the weakness of spirituous liquors, and the difficulty of re
  spiration on the peak, is not more correct.                In a word,    I
  have several times found by experience               that the opinion
                received in this respect is more than exaggerated,
  fenerally
     assure you that the cold was very supportable ; that liquors
  had lost none of their force; that the hydro-sulphureous
 vapours* were not injurious to respiration; and that we
 suffered no inconvenience from the rarity of the air, though
 it obliged us to make frequent pauses on approaching the
 summit.         In the last place, what has been said, and often
  repeated, in very modern works respecting the appearance
     * The author    means aquoso-svlpbmious, since he says that the vap^ms
 are   composed only of pure water and su!,>hur      This proves, as 1 have
a'ready onscrved in the preliminary discourse in the Journal He Pbysiouc,
Jar     9, thai when we wish to express the combinations of inflammable
gas with sulphur and other substances, wc ought not u s»y by<ho~sutybu-
 inus but byd rogeno- sulphureous , according to the principles of the new
nomenclature.— tNoic of Dtlumetbrrir.
                                     C3                                  Of

38                    Account   of      a Journey to the
of   the sun's disk as seen from the summit of the peak, i^
absolutely false.
    The enjoyment of three hours and a half soon elapsed.
This was little, no doubt, in comparison of the eight hun
dred leagues which I had travelled to procure it : but these
hours, such as I spent them, were and always will be to
me of infinite value.         I had scarcely time to arrive at the
port   of  Orotava   with day-light ; and I had still to make spe
cimens of all the different kinds of lava. I was obliged to
quit for ever one of the most beautiful scenes in nature ;
and I quitted this famous summit, bidding                         it,
                                                          with regret,
an eternal farewell.
    We descended very speedily the lava, which had ren
                                           :
dered our efforts exceedingly laborious, crumbled to pieces
under our feet.        We therefore soon passed las varices del
pico,   two    small  spiracles at the bottom of the pap, which
continually     throw   up water and vapour. The snow softr
ened     by the sun was less dangerous, but           often sunk into
                                                         I
it  up  to  the  knees    which
                          ;        was    not   very tempting; to my
guide,     who   had  not ventured    to   trust  himself to it in as
 cending,     and  who   was   afraid  of   sinking into    altogether.
                                                                      it
 We stopped for         a moment near           cuvea del geh.
                                                   la              This
is   one of those wonders to the vulgar, respecting which so
 many fables are told         by
                               travellers. You will have an idea
 of  it,   ifyou imagine     one  of those vaults which the liquid
 lava forms above itself to have burst exactly over               lar^e    a
 cavity, the    bottom   of which       filled
                                          is    with snow   abundantly
 impregnated with water in summer
                                :                      sometimes dry.
                                                        it   is
 At quarter before one we arrived at La Stauze, somewhat
     a
 fatigued with the carriage of my valuable and heavy collec
 tion.
     Our small caravan soon set out. but at slower pace. Tilla
  that moment, the rapidity of our march and the multitude
  of observations bad scarcely permitted me to breathe.              In
  descending      Ihad time to reflect on every thing by which                  f
  had been most interested, and           was then only that
                                           it                    began     I
  to enjoy what       I had seen.      In this satisfactory account
  which gave to myself,
           I                       soon discovered an error, which
                                   I
  was, that     I had not attempted to ascertain whether there
  existed any thing remarkable at the bottom of the peak to
  wards the south-west.         This fault could not be remedied.
  You will soon see that          was
                                   it       great one, and whether
                                               a                                it
  was properly repaired eight davs after.
      The state of the atmosphere had changed since the morn
  ing. The clouds, now united, formed only               moveable stra
                                                                  a
  tum on level with the heights., and which the trade-wind
              a
                4                                                          carried.

                 Summit  of  the Peak  of Teneriffe.
 (parried before it without breaking : we had not time to tra
  verse it before sun-set.     The declivity of the ground, and
  the darkness, rendered our march exceedingly painful till
  we reached the first habitations ; where our guide soon kin-
 tiled some pieces of split fir-wood, by the light of which
  we continued our route ; and arrived at the port of Orotava
 at nine in the evening.       I found my friends uneasy at my
 long    delay : they had distinctly observed the flag which I
 hoisted in the morning.
     I have not time to add any thing further to this sketch of
 one of the most interesting journeys that those who occupy
 themselves with the structure of the globe can undertake,
 Since that time I have not neglected any opportunity of
 multiplying or verifying my observations. I have collected
 the most singular notions in regard to the internal compo
 sition of more than 600 modern currents of lava.          What
 would become of our numerous systems in regard to volca-%
 noes, if it be true that we have hitherto been acquainted
 only with the superficial part of their productions, scoria
 and porous lava ? This is as if we were to judge of different
 liquors without seeing any part of them but the foam.
     The eruption which choked up the port of Guarachico
 »n 1 706 was attended with this peculiarity, that the current
 traversed sixteen leagues in five hours i the extremity of it
 has been carried away by the sea.       One may observe that it
 is composed of prismatic basaltes, black and somewhat
 porous, with large crystals of augite and olivin.
     The last eruption took place in 1798. New mouths,
 three in number, were opened on the declivity of an enor
 mous prolongation of the base of the peak towards the south
west, 1270 toises above the level of the sea. A3 the form of
ihe mountains on this side justified my regret, I made every
effort to repair my fault ; and I can now say, that of all the
 travellers who preceded me, I ascended quietly for three
hours along the declivities of the prolongation.        When I
reached the height of 1600 toises I found myself on the
edges of a vast crater, to which none of those we are ac
quainted with can be compared : it is nearly a league and a
half in circumference.      Though very old, it is exceedingly
steep in the inside, and still exhibits the image of the most
dreadful violence of the subterranean fires.        The peak has
been raised on the edges of this immense mouth.         The im
possibility of walking round the summit of the peak, or
rather the custom which travellers have of exactly following
the traces of their predecessors,      is no doubt the cause of
this curious fact having hitherto remained unknown.
                                                             My

40        On  Mr, Arthur Woolfs improved Apparatus,
    My second ascent of the peak was not only a lesson : it
furnished me, as well as my researches respecting an erup
tion which took place in 1 705 at Guimar, with a number
of facts, of which I wish I were able to give you an ac
count.     But I must be contented with assuring you that
few of my journeys have afforded me so much satisfaction
as the present.      I had every assistance and aid I could de
sire, both from individuals and from the Spanish govern
ment.      I shall never forget the reception I met with from
the marquis de Perlasca, the governor-general of the islands ;
and from the marquis de Casa Cajigal, who commands under
 him.
 V. On Mr. Arthur Woolf's improved Apparatus, ap
    plicable to Steam Engines and other Purposes of Art and
     Manufacture : including a Description oj two Boilers wtw
     erecting at Messrs. Meux's Brewery.
 JVxr. Woolf's        improved apparatus consists, First, of two,
 or more cylindrical vessels properly connected together, and
 so disposed as to constitute a strong and fit receptacle for.
 watcr,orany other fluid intended to be converted into steam,
 whether at the usual heats or at temperatures and under pres
 sures uncommonly high ; and also to present an extensive
 portion of convex surface to the current of flame, or heated
 air or vapour from a fire : Sccondlv, of other cylindrical
 receptacles placed above these cylinders, and properly con
 nected with them, for the purpose of containing water and
  steam, and for the reception, transmission, and useful ap
  plication of the steam generated from the heated water or
  other fluid : and, Thirdly, of a furnace so adapted to the
  cylindrical parts just mentioned, as to cause the greater part
  of the surface of all and each of them, or as much of the
  said surface as mav be convenient or desirable, to receive
  the direct action of the fire, or heated air and vapour.
     That our readers may be able fully to comprehend the
  way in which Mr. Woolf constructs his apparatus, w e shall
  present some plans and views, with such a description as
  will, we hope, convey a pretty correct idea of their nature.
      Fig. 1. (Plate I.) represents one of his boilers in its most
  simple form.      It consists of eight tubes niaiked a, made of
  cast iron or any other fit metal, which are each connected
  with the cylinder A placed above them, as shown in the
  side view fig. 2, in which the same letters refer to the same
                                                              parts

               applicable to Steam Engines,   &c.            4\
parts as in fig. 1. In fig. 2. is also shown the way in which
the fire is made to act. The fuel rests on the bars at B, and
the flame, heated air and vapour, being reverberated from
the part above the two first smaller cylinders, goes under
the third, over the fourth, under the firth, over the sixth,
under the seventh, and partly over partly under the eighth
small cylindric tube. The direction of the flame, till it
reaches the last-mentioned tube, is shown by the dotted
curved line and arrows.       When it has reached that end of
the furnace it is carried by the flue C to the other side of a
wall, built under and in the direction of the main cylinder A,
and then returns under the seventh smaller cylinder, over
the sixth, under the .fifth, over the fourth, under the third,
over the second, and partly over partly under the first ; when
it passes into the chimney. The wall before mentioned,
which divides the furnace longitudinally, answers the dou
ble purpose of lengthening the course which the flame and
heated air have to traverse, giving off" heat to the boiler in
their passage, and of securing from being destroyed by the
fire the flanges or plher joinings employed to unite the
smaller tubes to the main cylinder. The ends of the smaller
cylindric tubes rest on the brick-work which forms the sides
of the furnace, and one end of each of them is furnished
with a cover, secured in its place by screws or any other
adequate means, but which can be taken off at pleasure, to
allow the tubes to be treed, from time to time, from any
incrustation or sediment which may be deposited in them.
To any convenient part of the main cylinder A, a tube is
affixed, to convey the steam to the steam-engine, or to any
vessel intended to be heated by means of steam.
   When very high temperatures are not to be employed,
the kind of boiler just described is found to answer very
well ; but where the utmost force pf the fire is desirable,
Mr. Woolf, for a reason which shall be afterwards men
tioned, combines the parts in a manner somewhat different,
though the same in principle.         Having been permitted to
inspect two boilers of this kind which he is now erecting
in Messrs. Meux's brewery, and even to take copies of such
parts of the plans as were necessaiy for our present purpose,
we persuade ourselves a short description of an apparatus so
curious, and at the same time so useful, will prove highly
acceptable to our readers.
    In fig. 3, A is the main cylinder crossing the smaller cy
linders a,a,a, half way between their middles and ends, but
not joined to them at the points at which it crosses them.
It is put in this place that it may come over that part of the
                                                        furnace

 42      On      ~Mr.    Arthur Woolf's improved Apparatus,
 furnace S,S,S, through which the flame first passes, and re
 ceive its direct action, which it does .over nearly a half of
 its surface, as may be seen by looking at the vertical section
 ASS, fig. 6. The smaller cylinders have a communication
 with the main cylinder in the following manner : —Three
 cylinders, CCC, are placed parallel to the main cylinder A,
 over the part of the furnace by which the flame returns, in
 such a manner that each of the cylinders CCC takes in three
 of the smaller cylinders a a a, being united to and con
 nected with them as shown in fig. 4, which is a longitu
 dinal vertical section of that part of the apparatus. The
 cylinders CCC have a direct communication with the main
 cylinder A by the pipes or tubes P P P, as may be better
 seen by the cross vertical section, fig. 6, in which the same
 parts are marked with the same letters as in figures 3 and 4.
The three tubes CCC are preferred to one long tube, to pre
 vent any derangement taking place in the furnace or in the
tubes, by the expansion and contraction, occasioned by
 changes of temperature, which is more considerable in one
tube of the whole length of the furnace than when divided
into three portions ; and it is for the same reason that the
tube A is not made to communicate directly with the smaller
tubes aaa, but mediately by means of the -tubes marked
 C and P. —N.B. The two outermost of the tubes marked P,
instead of going parallel to the middle tube P, may both be
inclined towards          it,
                         as one of them       from m, so as to join
                                             is
the cylinder A near the middle         or any other direction may
                                         ;
be given to them, to prevent derangement by expansion.
    The tubes    C and    are kept from separating
                            a                           by  bolts from
the inside of        passing through
                     a                   the  top ot  C,   where    they
are secured       bynuis screwed on to them (see fig. .¦>.); and
these parts of     C are so contrived, that by taking oft" any of
the nuts    a cover may be removed, and           a  hole presented
large enough    to  admit    man'sa  hand   into  C to  clean it   out.
    Fig.5   is   longitudinal
                 a              vertical  section of   the  boiler   and
furnace, through the centre of the axis of the main cylin
der A, showing the course which the flame and heated air
are forced to take. The first three small cylinders are com
pletely surrounded with flame, being directly over the fire          :
                            the brick-work W over the fifth, and
                                it, by
the flame   isstopped
forced to pass under         and then over the sixth, where         it
again  meets  with   an interruption,  which forces   it  to go under
the seventh, over the eighth, and partly over partly under
the ninth.    It then turns round the end of the longitudinal
wall which divides the furnace, and passes over the eighth
smaller cylinder, under the seventh, and so on alternately
                                                                   over

               applicable to Steam Engines,    &c.           43
pver and under the other tubes, till it reaches the chimney B,
fig. 4. The wall that divides the furnace may be seen in fig. 3,
N,N,    and in fig. 6, at N. •
    To  secure a free communication between the different
parts of the boiler, the three tubes of the middle cylin
der C are connected with those of the two exterior C's by
two pipes oo. The other ends of the tubes a a a. are each
fitted with  a cover properly secured and bolted, but which
can be taken   off occasionally to clean out the boiler.
    In working with such boilers, the water carried off by
evaporation is replaced by water forced in by the usual
means ; and the steam generated is carried to the place in-»
tended, by means of tubes connected with the upper part of
the cylinder A.
    Mr. Woolf has taken out a patent for this very valuable
contrivance.     In the specification he has lodged of his in
vention, means are pointed out for applying it to the boilers
of steam-engines already in use, by ranging a row of cy^
linders below the present boiler, and connecting them with
each other and with the boiler.      Directions are also given
for constructing boilers composed of cylinders disposed ver
tically ; but as we consider such an arrangement inferior to
the horizontal, and a§ being introduced, perhaps, chiefly for
the purpose of preventing his patent from being infringed
by evasion, wie shall not give any further description of it.
We cannot, however, dismiss this article without quoting
some of Mr. Woolf's remarks, which may prove very
useful.
    " It may not be improper (says he) to call the attention
of those who may hereafter wish to construct such apparatus
 to one circumstance, namely, that in every case the tubes
 composing the boiler should be so combined and arranged,
 and the furnace so constructed, as to make the fire, the flame
 and heated air to act around, over and among the tubes,
 embracing the largest possible quantity of their surface. It
must be obvious to any one that the tubes may be made of
 any kind of metal ; but I prefer cast iron as the most con
 venient. The size of the tubes may be varied : but in every
 case care should be taken not to make their diameter too
 great ; and it must be remembered, that the larger the dia
 meter of any single tube in such a boiler the stronger must
 it be made in proportion, to enable it to bear the same ex
 pansive force as the smaller cylinders.     It is not essential,
 however, to my invention that the tubes should be of dif
 ferent sizes ; but I prefer that the upper cylinders, especially
       one which I call the main cylinder, should be larger
 ^he

44        On   Mr. Arthur JVoolf's       improved   Apparatus,
than the lower ones, it being the reservoir as it were int».
which the lower ones send the steam, to be thence conveyed
away by the steam pipe or pipes. The following general
direction may be given respecting the quantity of water to
be kept in a boiler on my construction : — it ought always to
fill not only the lower tubes, but the main cylinder A and
the cylinder C to about half their diameter ; that            is,
                                                          as high
as the lire     allowed to reach —and in no case ought
               is                                               to       it
be allowed to get so low as not to keep full the necks or
branches which join the smaller cylinders, marked with the
letter a, to the cylinders A or      Cfor the fire
                                         ;            only bene
                                                         is
ficially employed   when   applied, through the medium of the
interposed metal, to water, to convert         into steam
                                                  it         that   :
is, the purpose of my boiler would in some measure be der
feated,  ifany of the parts of the tubes exposed to the direct
action of the fire should present in their interior       surface
                                                              a
pf steam instead of water, to receive the transmitted heat,
which must more or less be the case             the lower tubes,
                                                  if
and even      part
               a    of the  upper,  be not  kept filled with the
liquid.
   " As    to the construction of the furnaces, though that
 must be obvious from the drawings,        may not be improper
                                             it
 bere to remark that they should always be so built as to
 givea   long and waving course to the dame and heated air,
 or vapour, forcing them the more effectually to strike against
 the sides of the tubes which compose the boiler, and so to
 give out  a large portion of their heat before they reach the
chimney   :   unless this be attended to, there will be a much,
 greater  waste  of fuel than necessary    and the heat commu-
                                             ;
nicaled to the contents of the boiler will be less from a
given quantity of fuel.
    " My invention        not only applicable to all the uses to
                           is
which the boilers in common use are generally applied, but
to all of them with much better effects than the latter, and
can besides be applied to purposes in which boilers, con
structed as they have hitherto been, would be of little or no.
use.     The working of all kinds of steam engines           one    is
important application of my invention; for the steam may
be raised, in      boiler constructed in the manner before de
                   a
scribed, to such       temperature, and consequently to such
                       a
an expansive force, as to work an engine even without con'
densing the steam,          it by
                            simply allowing      to escape into
                                                    it
the atmosphere after       has done its office, as proposed by
Mr. James Watt, in the specification of his patent, dated
January 5, 1769: where he says, engines may be worked
by  the force of steam only,        discharging the steam into
                                    by
                                                                         the

                applicatle to Steam Engines,   &fc.           i3
the open air. In all cases where it is desirable to heat -or
boil water, or other fluids and substances, without the di
rect application of fire to the vessel or vessels containing
them, which in such cases become secondary boilers, the
use of my apparatus will produce effects superior to any
obtainable by other means, — no more being necessary than
to make the vessel, or secondary boiler, containing the
water or other fluids, and the substances immersed or dis
solved in, or blended or mixed with the water or other
fluid, to communicate, by means of a tube or tubes, with
the prime boiler, constructed in the manner before described.
 In such cases, as in making extracts of every kind for the
various purposes of arts and manufactures, and for the
 6imple boiling of water or watery fluids, the steam should
 go directly into the vessel, or secondary boiler, whose con
 tents are to be heated orboiled ; and the orifice or orifices of
 the pipe or pipes through which the steam is conveyed
 should go to a considerable depth in the fluid, that the steam
 may be the better able to give off its heat and be condensed
 before it can reach the surface : and in every such case, an
 allowance should be made for the increase which will be made
 to the quantity of liquid in the vessel to be heated, by the
 quantity of steam which will be condensed in the same be
 fore the process be ended. The vessels into which the steam
 is thrown may be either open or close, as the nature of cir
 cumstances may require : but where extracts are to be made
 from vegetable or other matters from which extracts are or
 may be made, as from hops, bark, drags and dye-stuffs, for
 brewing, tanning, dyeing and other processes, the materials
 will be much more completely exhausted of all their valuable
  parts ; and in many instances they will be completely dis
  solved by employing close vessels, which in that case must be
  made very strong, — a thing not difficult to be accomplished,
  when it is recollected that they may be at a distance from,
  and consequently out of the power of being deranged by, the
  fire, and that they may be surrounded with, and as it were
 buried in, massy stone or brick-work, in addition to other
  and obvious means of securing them. My apparatus so
  employed becomes, in fact, an improved I'apin's digester
  on a large scale.    I do not wish to be understood as claim
  ing   the merit of  having been the first who applied steam in
  the manner just described to boil water and other fluids,
  but merely as pointing out an important use to which my
  apparatus   is applicable, and in which the effect obtained
  will be much greater than by any other means.
      "  Another important use to which my invention can be
  applied with better effect than the means now in use, is
                                                              that

 i6      On   Mr. Arthur Woolj's    improved Apparatus,        &i:
   that of distillation on the large scale, and that by either
   sending the steam directly into and among the contents of
   the still or alembic, or by inclosing the still in another
  vessel, and making the steam of a high temperature, to cir
  culate* in and to occupy the space between the exterior sur
  face of the still and the interior surface of the containing
  vessel.     In either case, all danger of burning or singeing
  the materials operated upon is done away, and a much more
  pleasant and pure spirit will be obtained than by the methods
  now in common use.               I need not stop here to show the
  reason why, even in the case of throwing the steam directly
  into the still, the spirituous part will be the first to rise and
  pass over into the receiver.
     "   I might mention many other useful applications that
 may be made of my invention ; but I shall only state one
 more, namely, to the drying of gunpowder* and lessening
 the danger of explosions in the manufacture of that article.
 By means of my invention, any desired temperature, ne
 cessary for that purpose, may be produced where the powder
 is to be dried* without the necessity of having fire in, or so
 near the place as to endanger its safety ; for hy employing
 steam only, conveyed through pipes, and properly applied
 and directed, without allowing any of it to escape into the
 room or apartment where the powder               is,  any competent
 workman can produce heat equal to that found necessary
                              a
 for drying gunpowder, or much higher             if   required. Nor
is   the lessening of the danger of explosions the only ad
vantage which this way of drying gunpowder holds out —               it
presents another and an essential one for the goodness of
the article — the heat can be completely regulated so as to'
prevent,' or at least lessen, the partial decomposition of th&
powder    by      the sublimation of the sulphur, which   is    found
to take place      by    the methods at present in use."
     In every case Mr. Woolf uses two safety valves, at least*
in his apparatus, to prevent accidents       :    a precaution which
cannot be too strongly enforced as j         it   may happen, when
but one   is     employed,    it   by
                                 may       some accident get locked,
and the works and people about them be exposed to th*
danger of an explosion.
     Besides the common safety valves, Mr. Woolf has also
introduced     a    valve, of a   new construction, into the steam-
pipe    itself,   to regulate  the  quantity that shall pass from the
boiler.      In fact*   it   is
                             a  self-acting regulator and being ex
                                                      ;
tremely ingenious,-          we  think we shall be gratifying our
readers   by    laying  a  description of
                                        it    before them, which we
shall   in  our    next,  with  an  accurate  engraving.
    The two boilers now constructing for Messrs. Meux will
                                                                  not

           On the Motion    of Bodies     affected by   Friction.      41
not be the least curious part of the immense collection of in
genious mechanism of which their premises can boast. They
are not intended for the steam engine, but to supersede the
necessity of applying fire directly to their two large boilers,
each of which are of the contents of about 800 barrels.
They are in future to be heated by steam, sent into them
from these new boilers ; which will not only prevent the
wear to which the coppers are exposed by the usual practice,
which costs a large sum of money yearly, but, it is ex
pected, will produce a large saving in fuel.
    We understand also, that when these boilers are finished
Messrs. Meux mean to have one constructed for their steam
engine.      Indeed, if these boilers shall be found to answer
the purposes expected from them, and we can see no reason
to induce us to doubt of their success, it will occasion a
complete change in numerous departments of arts and
manufactures, in which steam and the heat that may be ob
tained from it are, or may be, advantageously employed*.
 VI.    On the Motion of Bodies affected by Friction.             By the
     Rev. Samuel Vince, A. M. of Cambridge.                    Communi
     cated by Anthony Shepherd, D. D. F. R. S. Plumian
     Professor of Astronomy and Experimental Philosophy at
     Cambridge f<       Read November 25, ]784.
  JL he subject of      the  paper which       I have now the honour
 of presenting to the Royal Society,             seems to be of a very
 considerable importance both to the practical mechanic and
 to the speculative philosopher 5 to the former, as a know
 ledge of the laws and quantity of the friction of bodies in
 motion upon each other will enable him at first to render
 his machines more perfect, and save him in a great measure
 the trouble of correcting them by trials ; and to the latter,
 as those laws will furnish him with principles for his the
 ory, which when established by experiments will render
  his conclusions applicable to the real motion of bodies upon
 each other*       But, however important a part of mechanics
  this subject may constitute, and however, from its obvious
  uses, it might have been expected to have claimed a very
  considerable attention both from the mechanic and phito-
 *opher, yet it has, of all the other parts of this branch of
  natural philosophy, been the most neglected. The law by
     * Mr. Woolf    has adopted for the door of his furnace Mr. Roberton's
  invention for consuming smoke, which we have therefore not described,
  having given a full account of it in our eleventh volume.
      f From the Philosophical Transaction;, vol. lixv.
                                                                   which

   4fc      bn the  Motion of Bodies   affected hj Priction;
   which the motions of bodies are retarded by friction hatf
   never, that I know of, been truly established. Musschen-
   broek says that in small velocities the friction varies very
  nearly as the velocity, but that in great velocities the friction
  increases : he has also attempted to prove that, by increasing
  the weight of a body the friction does not always increase
  exactly in the same ratio ; and that the same body, if by
  changing its position you change the magnitude of the sur
  face on which it moves, will have its quantity of friction
  also changed. Htlsham and Ferguson, from the same kind
  of experiments, have endeavoured to prove that the friction
  does not vary by changing the quantity of surface on which
  the body moves ; and the latter of these asserts that the
  fnction increases very nearly as the velocity; and that by
  increasing the weight, the friction is increased in the same
  ratio.    These different conclusions induced me to repeat
  their experiments, in order to see how far they were con
 clusive in respect to the principles deduced from them :
 when it appeared that there was another cause operating
 besides friction, which they had not attended to, and whicn
 rendered all their deductions totally inconclusive.       Of those
 who have written on the theory, no one has established it
 altogether on true principles.       Euler (whose theory is ex
 tremely elegant, and which, as he has so fully considered
 the subject, would have precluded the necessity of offering
 any thing further, had its principles been founded on ex
 periments) supposes the fnction to vary in proportion to the
 velocity ol the body, and its pressure upon the plane, neither
 of which are true : and others, who have imagined that
 friction is a uniformly retarding force (and which conjecture
 will be confirmed by our experiments), have still retained
the other supposition, and therefore rendered their solutions
 not at all applicable to the cases for which they were intended.
 I therefore endeavoured by a set of experiments to deter
mine,
      1 st. Whether
                     friction be a uniformly retarding force.
     2dly, The quantity of friction.
     3dly, Whether the friction varies in proportion to the pres
sure or weight.
     4thly, Whether the friction he the same, on whichever of
its surfaces a body moves.
     The experiments, in which I was assisted by my ingenious
friend the Rev. Mr. Jones, Fellow of Trinity college, were
made with the utmost care and attention ; and the several
results agreed so very exactly with each other, that I do not
scruple lo pronounce them to be conclusive.
     2. A plane was adjusted parallel to the horizon, at the
                                                         extremity

           On the Motion of Bodies  affected ly Friction.       49
 extremity of which was placed a pulley, which could be
 elevated or depressed in order to rentier the string which
 connected the body and the moving force parallel to the
  plane.   A scale accurately divided was placed by the side of
  the pulley, perpendicular to the horizon, by the.side of which
 the moving force descended ; upon the scale was placed a
 moveable stage, which could be adjusted to the space through
 which the moving force descended in any given time, which
 time was measured by a well-regulated pendulum clock vi
 brating seconds.    Every thing being thus prepared, the fol
 lowing experiments were made to ascertain the law of fric
tion. But let me first observe, that if friction be an uniform
 force, the difference between it and the given force of the
 moving power must be also uniform ; and therefore the
 moving body must descend with an uniformly accelerated
 velocity, and consequently the spaces described from the
beginning of the motion must be as the squares of the times,
just as when there was no friction, only they will be dimi
 nished on account of the friction.
     3. Exp. l. A body was placed upon the horizontal plane,
 and a moving force applied, which from repeated trials was
 found to descend         inches in 4", for by the. beat of the
 clock and the sound of the moving force when it arrived at
 the stage, the space could be very accurately adjusted to the
 time : the stage was then removed to that point to which
 the moving force would descend in 3", upon supposition
that the spaces described by the moving power were as the
 squares of the limes ; and the space was found to agree very
accurately with the time : the stage was then removed to
 that point to which the moving force ought to descend in
 2", upon the same supposition ; and the descent was found
to agree exactly with the time : lastly, the stage was adjusted
to that point to which the moving force ought to descend
in \" , upon the same supposition ; and the space was ob
served to agree with the time. Now in order to find whether
a difference in the time of descent could be observed, by
removing the stage a little above and below the positions
which corresponded to the above times, the experiment was
tried, and the descent was always found too soon in the
former, and too late in the latter case ; by which I was as
sured that the spaces first mentioned corresponded        exactly
to the times. And, for the greater certainty, each descent
was repeated eight or ten times ; and every caution used in
this experiment was also made use of in all the following.
    Exp. 2. A second body was laid upon the horizontal plane,
and a moving force applied which descended 41 \ inches in
                                  D                          3'

50       On the Motion  of Bodies affected ly Friction.
 3" : the stage was then adjusted to the space corresponding
to 2", upon supposition that the spaces descended through
were as the squares of the times ; and it was found to agree
accurately with the time : the stage was then adjusted to the
space corresponding to l", upon the same supposition ; and
it was found to agree with the time.
   Exp. 3. A third body was laid upon the horizontal plane,
and a moving force applied, which descended 5a| inches in
4" : the stage was then adjusted to the space corresponding
to 3", upon supposition that the spaces descended through
were as the squares of the times, and it was found to agree
with the time : the stage was then adjusted to the space cor
responding to 2", upon the same supposition, and it was
found to agree with the time : the stage was then adjusted
to the space corresponding to l", and was found to agree
with the time.
   Exp. 4. A fourth body was then taken and laid upon the
horizontal plane, and a moving force applied, which de
scended 55 inches in 4" : the stage was then adjusted to the
space through which it ought to descend in 3", upon sup
position that the spaces descended through were as the
squares of the times, and it was found to agree with the
time : the stage was then adjusted to the space corresponding
to 2", upon the same supposition, and was found to agree
with the time : lastly, the stage was adjusted to the space
corresponding to l", and it was found to agree exactly with
the time.
   Besides these experiments, a great number of others were
made with hard bodies, or those whose parts so firmly co
hered as not to be moved inter se by the friction ; and in
each experiment bodies of very different decrees of friction
were chosen, and the results all agreed with those related
above: we may therefore conclude that the friction of hard
bodies in motion is an vnifbrmly retarding force.
   But to determine whether the same was true for bodies
when covered with cloth, woollen, &c. experiments were
made in order to ascertain it ; when it was found in all
cases, that the retarding force increased with the velocity ;
but, upon covering bodies with paper, the consequences
were found to agree with those related above.
   4. Having proved that the retarding force of all hard
bodies arising from friction is uniform, the quantity of fric
tion, considered as equivalent to a weight without inertia
drawing the body on the horizontal plane backwards, or
acting contrary to the moving force, may be immediately
deduced from the foregoing experiments.       For let M=the
                                                        moving

             On the Motion     of Bodies    affected by   Friction.         51
  ttioving force expressed by its weight; F=the friction; W
   == the weight pf the
                             body upon the horizontal plane ; S =a
  the space through which the moving force descended in the
  time t expressed in seconds; r=\6,'T feet; then the whole
  accelerative force (the force of gravity being unity), will be
            >   hence,  by the laws     of uniformly     accelerated     mo-
  tions, —   —— xr t2 — S,          consequently    F=M           —-          .
  To exemplify this,       let us take    the case   of   the last experi
  ment, where M =          7,  W     = 25f, S =      4T?T feet,
                                                                  / =     i" ;
 hence     F=     7              =   6.41 7 ; consequently the friction
                       3^X^T^
 was to the weight of the rubbing body as 6.4167 to 25.75.
 And     the great accuracy of determining the friction by this
 method is manifest from hence, that if an error of one inch
 had been made in the descent (and experiments carefully
 made may always determine the space to a much greater
 exactness), it would not have affected the conclusion ?Jcdth
 part of the whole.
     5. We come in the next place to determine whether
 friction, cesteris paribus, varies in proportion to the weight
 or pressure.         Now if the whole quantity of the friction of
 a body, measured by a weight without inertia equivalent to
 the friction drawing the body backwards, increases in pro
portion to its weight, it is manifest that the retardation of
the velocity of the body arising from the friction will not
•      ,      ,     -   ,         .   .        .       Qnantity of friction
be altered '; for the retardation vanes as                      —            \
                                                       Quantity  of matter
hence, if a body be put in motion upon the horizontal plane
by any moving force, if both the weight of the body and
 the moving force be increased in the same ratio, the acce
leration arising from that moving force will remain the same ;
because the accelerative force varies as the moving force di
vided by the whole quantity of matter, and both are in
creased in the same ratio ; and if the quantity of friction
increases also as the weight, then the retardation arising
 from the friction will, from what has been said, remain the
lame; and therefore the whole acceleration of the body will
not be altered : consequently the body ought, upon this
 supposition, still to describe the same space in the same
 time. Hence, by observing the spaces described in the same
 time, when both the body and the moving force are increased
in the same ratio, we may determine whether the friction
 increases in proportion to the weight.               The following ex-
                                     D 2                        periments

52        On the Motion    of Bodies  affected by Friction.
pcriments were therefore made in order to ascertain this
matter.
     Exp. 1. A body weighing 10 oz. by a moving force of
4 oz. described in 2" a space of 51 inches; by loading the
body with 10 oz. and the moving force with 4 oz. it de
scribed 56 inches in 2" ; and by loading the body again with
 10 oz. and the moving force with 4 oz. it described 63
 inches in 2".
      Exp. 2. A body, whose weight was lfi oz. by a moving
 force of 5 oz. described a space of 49 inches in 3" ; and by
 loading the body with 64 oz. and the moving force with
 20 oz. the space described in the same time was 64 inches.
      Exp. 3. A body weighing 6 oz. by a moving force of
  24 oz. described 28 inches in 2"; and by loading the body
  with 24 oz. and the moving force with 10 oz. the space de
  scribed in the same time was 54 inches.
      Exp. 4. A body weighing 8 oz. by a moving force of 4
  oz. described 334 inches in 2"; and by loading the body
  with 8 oz. and the moving force with 4 oz. the space de
  scribed in the same time was 47 inches.
      Exp. 5. A body whose weight was 9 oz. by a moving
  force of 4' oz. described 48 inches in 2"; and by loading
  the body with 9 oz. and the moving force with 4} oz. the
  space described in the same time was 60 inches.
      Exp. 6. A body weighing 10 oz. by a moving force of 3
  oz. described 20 inches in 2"; by loading the body with 10
  oz. and the moving force with 3 oz. the space described in
  the same time was 31 inches; and by loading the body again
  with 30 oz. and the moving force with 9 oz. the space de
  scribed was 34 inches in 2/ .
       From these experiments, and many others which it is not
   necessary here to relate, it appears that the space described
   is always increased by increasing the weight of the body
   and the accelerative force in the same- ratio : and as the ac
   celeration arising from the moving force continued the
   same, it is manifest that the retardation arising from the
   friction must have been diminished ; for the whole accele
   rative force must have been increased on account of the in
   crease o£ the space described in the same time ; and hence,
                                                            ° "c "g1
    (as the retardation from friction varies as ]gHiP!|iy              )
                                                   Quantity of matter/
   the quantity   of friction  increases   in a less ratio than the
   quantity of matter or weight of the body.
       6. We come now to the last thing which it was proposed
   to determine, that is, whether the friction varies by varying
   the surface on which the body moves.         Let us call two of
                                                                   the

         On (lie Motion   of Bodies affected by Friction.     33
the surfaces A and a, the former being the greater, and the
latter the less.   Now the weight on every given part of a is
as much greater than the weight on an equal part of A, as
A is greater than a ; if therefore the friction was in propor
tion to the weight, cceteris paribus, it is manifest that the
friction on a would be equal to the friction on A, the whole
friction being, upon such a supposition, as the weight on
any given part of each surface multiplied into the number
of such parts, or into the whole area ; which products, from
the proportion above, are equal. But from the last experi
ments it has been proved that, the friction on any given
surface increases in a less ratio than the weight ; conse
quently the friction on any given part of a has a less ratio
to the friction on an equal part of A than A has to a; and
hence the friction on a is less than the friction on A, that
is, the smallest surface has always the least friction.      But.
as this conclusion is contrary to the generally received opi
nion, I have thought it proper to confirm the same by a set
 of experiments. But before I proceed to relate them, I
•will beg leave to recommend to those, who may afterwards
be induced to repeat them, the following cautions, which
 are extremely necessary to be attended to.      Great care must
 be taken that the two surfaces have exactly the same degree
 of roughness ; in order to be certain of which, such bodies
 must be chosen as have no knots in them, and whose grain
is so very regular, that when the two surfaces are planed
with a fine rough plane their roughness may be the same,
 which will" not be the case if the body be knotty, or the
 grain irregular, or if it happens not to run in the same di
 rection on both surfaces.    When you cannot depend on the
 surfaces having the same degree of roughness, the best way
 will be to paste some fine rough paper on each surface,
 which perhaps will give a more equal degree of roughness
 than can be obtained by any other method. Now as the
 proof which I have already given depends only on the mo
 tion of the body upon the same surface, it is not liable to
 any inaccuracy of the kind which the preceding cautions
 have been given to avoid, nor indeed to any other, and
 therefore it must be perfectly conclusive.      In the following
 experiments     the cautions  mentioned    above  were carefully
 attended to.
    Exp. 1. A body was taken whose flat surface was to its
  edge as 22 : 9, and with the same moving force the body
  described on its flat side 33i inches in 2", and on its edge
  47 inches in the same time.
 •   Exp. 2. A second body was taken whose flat surface was
                                D 3                             to

54      On the Motion      of Bodies   affected by
                                                   Friction,
to its edge as 32 : 3, and with the same moving force it
described on its flat side 32 inches in 2", and on its edge it
described ZV_ inches in the same time,
   Exp. 3. I took another body and covered one of its sur-»
faces, whose length was 9 inches, with a fine rough paper,
and by applying a moving force, it described 25 inches in
2" ; I then took off some paper from the middle, leaving
only three-eighths of an inch at the two ends, and with the
same moving force it described 40 inches in the same time.
  Exp. 4. Another body was taken which had one of iti
surfaces,  whose length was 9 inches, covered with a fine
rough paper, and by applying a moving force it described 42
ipches in 2" 5 some of the paper was then taken oft" from
the middle, leaving only \\ inches at the two ends, and
with the same moving force it described 54 inches in 2"; \
then took off more paper, leaving only one-fourth of an
inch at the two ends, and the body then described, by the
same moving force, 60 inches in the same time.
   In the two last experiments the paper which was taken off
the surface was laid on the body, that its weight might not
be altered.
  Exp. 5.        A
               body was taken whose flat surface was to its
edge as 30    17; the flat side was laid upon the horizontal
                 :
plane, a moving force was applied, and the stage was fixed
in order to stop the moving force, in consequence of which
the body would then go on with the velocity acquired until
the friction had destroyed all its motion ; when it appeared
from a mean of 12 trials that the whole body moved, after
its acceleration ceased, 5r inches before it stopped.     The
edge was then applied, and the moving force descended
through the same space, and it was found, from a mean of
the same number ot trials, that the space described was "\
inches before the body lost all its motion, after it ceased tq
be accelerated.
   Exp. 6. Another body was then taken whose flat surface
was to its edge as 6'0 : 19, and, by proceeding as before,
on the flat sarface it described, at a mean of 12 trials, 5 \
inches, and on the edge 67^ inches, before it stopped, after
the acceleration     ceased,
     Exp.    Another body was taken whose flat surface was
            7-
to its edge as 26 : 3, and the spaces described on these
two surfaces, after the acceleration ended, were, at a. mean,
of 10 trials, 4, and 7         ,'<•
                         inches respectively.
   From all these different experiments       appears that the
                                                it
smallest surface had always the least friction, which agrees
with the consequence deduced from the consideration that
                                                               fa

            On the Motion   of Bodies affected by Friction.      55
  the friction does not increase in so great a ratio as the weight ;
  we may therefore conclude that the friction of a body does
  not continue the same when it has different surfaces applied
  to the plane on which it moves, hut that the smallest surface
  will have the least friction.
     7. Having thus established, from the most decisive ex
  periments, all that    I proposed relative to friction, I think,
  it proper, before I conclude, to give the result of my ex
  amination into the nature of the experiments which have
  been made by others ; which were repeated in order to see
  how far they were conclusive in respect to the principles
  which    have been deduced from them.           The experiments
 which    have been made by all the authors that I have seen
 have been thus instituted . — To find what moving force would
just put a body at rest in motion: and they concluded from
 thence, that the accelerative force was then equal to the
 friction ; but it is manifest that any force which will put
 a body in motion must be greater than the force which op
 poses its motion, otherwise it could not overcome it ; and
 hence, if there were no other objection than this, it is evi
 dent that the friction could not be very accurately obtained :
 but there is another objection which totally destroys the ex
 periment so far as it tends to show the quantity of friction,
 wliich is the strong cohesion of the body to the plane when
 it lies at rest; and this is confirmed by the following ex
 periments.      1st, A body of 124 oz. was laid upon an hori
 zontal plane, and then loaded with a weight of 8 lb. and
 such a moving force was applied as would, when the body
 was just put in motion, continue that motion without any
 acceleration, in which case the friction must be just equal
 to the accelerative force. The body was then stopped ; when
 it appeared that the same moving force which had kept the
 body in motion before would not put it in motion, and it was
 found necessary to take off 4i oz. from the body before the
 same moving force would put it in motion : it appears,
 therefore, that this body, when laid upon the plane at rest,
 acquired a very strong cohesion to it.       2dly, A body whose
'Weight was 16 oz. was laid at rest upon the horizontal plane,
 and it was found that a moving force of 6 oz. Would just
 put it in motion; but that a moving force of 4 oz. would f
 when it was just put in motion, continue that motion with
 out any acceleration, and therefore the accelerative force
 must then have been equal to the friction, and not when
 tbe moving force of 6 oz. was applied.
    From these experiments therefore it appears, how very
                                 P 4                           can*
             1

56     On the Motion    of Bodies          affected by   Friction.
considerable the cohesion was in proportion to the friction,
when the body was in motion ; it being, in the latter case,
almost one-third, and in the former it was found to be very
nearly equal to the whole friction. All the conclusions,
therefore, deduced from the experiments which have been
instituted to determine the friction from the force necessary
to put a body in motion (and I have never seen any described
but upon such a principle), have manifestly been totally
false ; as such experiments only show the resistance which
arises from the cohesion and friction conjointly.
    8. I shall conclude this part of the subject with a remark
upon Art. 5.     It appears from all the experiments which I
have made, that the proportion of the increase of the fric
tion lo the increase of the- weight was different in all the
different bodies which were made use of: no general rule
therefore can be established to determine this for all, bodies;
and the experiments which I have hitherto made have not
been sufficient to determine it for the same body.     At some
future opportunity, when I have more leisure, I intend to
repeat the experiments in order to establish, in some par
ticular cases, the law by which the quantity of friction in
creases by increasing the weight.        Leaving this subject,
therefore, for the present, I shall proceed to establish a the
ory upon the principles which we have already deduced from
our experiments.
                       PROPOSITION              I.
   Let e, f, g, (fig. 1. Plate II.) represent either a cylinder,
or that circular section of a body on which it rolls down the
inclined plane CA, in consequence of its friction, to find the
time of descent and the number of revolutions.
   As it has been proved in Art. 5. that the friction of a
body does not increase in proportion to its weight or pres
sure, we cannot, therefore, by knowing the friction on any
other plane, determine the friction on CA; the friction
therefore on CA can only be determined by experiments
made upon I fiat plane, that         is,   by
                                   letting the body descend
from rest, and observing the space described in the first
second of time: call that space «, and then, as      Art. 3.     by
frictionis an uniformly retarding force, the body must be
uniformly accelerated, and consequently the whole time of
descent in seconds
the number
                     will
             of revolutions,
                            be
                                 -/t
                                 =
                                 let
                                     /
                                       s
                                            —.       Now
                                           be the center
                                                            to   determine
                                                            of oscillation
                                                                        to

           On the Motion       of Bodies      affected by   Friction.        57
to the point of suspension a *                  ; then, because no force
acting    at a  can   affect the   motion      of  the point s, that point,
notwithstanding the action of the friction at a, will always
have a motion parallel to CA uniformly accelerated by a
force equal to that with which the body would be accelerated
if   it had no friction; hence, if 2m = 32£ feet, the velo
city acquired by the point s in the first second will be =
      2—  -;  now the excess of the velocity of the point              s above
 that of   r  (r being the center) is manifestly the velocity with
 which     s is carried about r ; hence the velocity of s about
 the center     =  —   ;         2a=                           , consequently
                  jmxCB-iaxCA              _"
                                               znyraxCB        —  laxroXCA
                            CA                             ; s X CA
  = the velocity with which            a point of the circumference Is
 carried about the center, and which therefore expresses the
  force which accelerates the rotation ; now as 2 a expresses
  the accelerative force of the body down the plane, and the
  spaces described in the same time are in proportion to those
  forces, we have        2 a :   CA ::      '"X^xCB-.^xCA
  mX.r
  ——      - — —— - — - —
       —axCB-ay.raX.CA              the space which
                                                     . • .          •
                                                            any point
                                                                      .
                                                                         ofr the
                                                                             ^,
  circumference describes about the center in the whole time
  of the body's descent down CA ; which being divided by
  the circumference p x r a (where p = 6.283, &c.) will
         CTX^°~aX AC
  give                         for the whole number of revolutions
  required.
      Cor. l. If a x CA = w x RC, the number of revolu
  tions = 0, and therefore the body will then only slide ;
   consequently the friction vanishes.
       Cor. 2. Let   a'//      (fig. 2.) be the next position of ars,
   and draw t     / b parallel to s a, then will s t represent the
   retardation of the center r arising from friction, and a' b
   will represent the acceleration of a point of the circumfe
   rence about its center ; hence the retardation of the center :
  acceleration of the circumference about the center : : s' t :
   d b :: (by sim. a's) (V : br1 :: rs : r a.
       Cor. 3. If a coincides with a, the body does not slide,
   but only roll; now in this case             sJ    : rr    :: as : ar; but
      * a and s are not fixed
                                points in the body, but the former always re
   presents that point of the body in contact with the plane, and the latter
   the corresponding center of oscillation.
                                                                                as

 58                 Observations            on the Processes         of Tanning.
as s s' and               r   /     represent          the   ratio of the velocities of the
points          5   and   r,        they   will    be to each other a3 i^2*                     —        :        2 a
or as m x CB : a x                              CA ;         hence, when the body                                nils
without sliding, as :                           ar ::        m x CB : a x CA.
      Cor. 4. The time                     of   descent down                   CA    is    =        /—       ;   but
by the last Cor. when the body rolls without sliding,                                                            a   =
wxrax                 , hence the time                     of   descent         in   that case         =         AC
                         ... : now the time                     of   descent, '       if   there were no
       »»X'flXB<-
           .
friction,* would
                              ...be    =        / -
                                                      AC
                                                                                                of
                                                           „ ,. hence the time                        descent, *
                                            Vm X           BC
 when the body rolls without sliding : time of free descent
 :: >/sa : +/ra.
    Cor. 5. By the last Cor. it appears, that when the body
just rolls without sliding, or when the friction is just
equal to the accclcrativc force, the time of descent = AC
                —             -]:   now     it   is    manifest that the time                       of descent
        X»"«XBU
will continue the same,      the friction be increased; for the
                                                if
body will still freely roll, no increase of the friction acting
                                                  as
at a can affect the motion of the point s.
      If
      the body be projected from        with    velocity, and at     C          a
the same time have     rotatory  motion,
                                       a    the lime of descent
and the number of revolutions may be determined from the
common principles    of uniformly accelerated motions. As
we have already investigated    the accelerative force of the
body down   the plane, and   of  its rotation about its axis,                                                        it
seems therefore unnecessary to lengthen out this paper with
the investigations.
                                            [To    be   continued.]
VII.           Observations           mi the Processes                    ofTanning.            By Hum-
      PHBr Davy, Esq., Professor                                     of   Cliemistry           in
                                                                                                the lloyul
      Institution.
                         [Concluded from our                 last volume,       p.   85.]
II.     On the Impregnation                      of     Skin with the Tanning Principle.
 X he tanning lixivium or ooze         generally made in this        is
country,     infusing bruised or coarsely powdered oak bark
                    by
in water.
   Skins arc tanned                        by
                        being successively immersed      lixi-                                        in
                                                      Tiums,

           Olservations on the Processes  of Tanning.          50
viums, saturated in different degrees with the astringent
 principles of the bark. The lixiviums first employed are
 usually weak"; but for the completion of the process they
 are made as strong as possible.
    In the process of tanning, the skin gains new chemical
 properties ; it increases in weight, and becomes insoluble in
 boiling water.
    The infusions of oak bark, when chemically examined,
 are found to contain two principal substances ; one is pre-
 cipitable by solution of gelatine, made from glue or isin
glass; and gives a dense black with solution of common
 sulphate of iron.     The other is not thrown down by solu
tion of gelatine ; but it precipitates the salts of iron of a
 brownish black, and the salts of tin of a fawn colour.
    The substance precipitable by solution of gelatine is the
tanning principle, or the tannin of Seguin.        It is essential
 to the conversion of skin into leather, and in the process of
 tanning it enters into chemical union with the matter of
 skin, so as to form with it an insoluble compound.           The
 other substance, the substance not precipitable by gelatine,
 is the colouring or extractive matter ; it js capable of enter
 ing into union with skin, and it gives to it a brown colour;
 but it does not render it insoluble in boiling water.
    It has been usually supposed that the infusion of oak bark
 Contains a peculiar acid, called gallic acid ; but some late
 experiments render this opinion doubtful : and this prin
ciple, if it exists in oak bark, is in intimate combination
 with the extractive or colouring matter.
    In the common process of tanning, the skin, which is
 chiefly composed of gelatine, slowly combines in its or
ganized form with the tannin and extractive matter of the
infusions of bark ; the greater proportion of its increase of
weight is however owing to tannin, and it is from this sub
 stance the leather derives its characteristic properties ; but
its colour, and the degree of its flexibility, appear to be in
 fluenced by the quantity of colouring matter that it contains.
    When skin, in large quantity, is suffered to exert its full
 action upon a small portion of infusion of bark, containing
 tannin and extractive matter, the fluid is found colourless.
 \t gives no precipitate to solution of glue, and produces very
 Httle effect upon the salts of iron, or of tin.
    The tanning principle of oak bark is more soluble in
water than the extractive matter : and the relative propor
tion of tannin to extractive matter is much greater in strong
jnfuiiqns of oak bark than in w eak ones ; and when strong
                                                        infusions

  CO          Observations  on the Processes   of Tanning.
  infusions    are used for tanning,    a larger proportion   of tan
  nin is combined with, the matter of skin.
     For calf skins, and light cow skins, which          are usually-
 prepared     in the grainer, weak lixiviums are used in the first
  part  of the   process ; but thick ox hides, for the purpose of
 stout sole leather, are generally kept in a strong ooze, pre
 served constantly in a state approaching to saturation, by
 means of strata of bark.
     Calf skins, and light cow skins, in the usual process,
 require for their full impregnation with tannin from two
 to four months ; but thick ox hides demand from ten to
 eighteen months.
     In any case the state of the skin with regard to impreg
 nation with tannin may be easily judged of, if it be cut
 transversely with a sharp knife : in this case the tanned
 part appears of a nutmeg colour j but the unimpregnated
 skin retains its whiteness.
     The tanned hides designed for sole leather, are, while
 drying, generally smoothed with a stout steel pin, and beat
 with a mallet. By this process they are rendered denser,
 firmer, and less permeable to water : calf skins are not sub
jected to the operation of beating ; and they are treated in
 different ways by the currier, according as they are needed
 for different purposes.
III.   General Remarks relating       to the Processes of Tanning.
    A very great      number    of vegetable productions, besides
 oak bark, contain the principle essential to the conversion of
 skin into leather : galls, sumach, the bark of the Spanish
 chesnut, of the elm, of the common willow, and of the Lei
cester willow, the branches of the myrtle, tormcntil, and
heath, have all been used in the processes of tanning.
    Different methods have been proposed for estimating the
quantity of tannin in different vegetable productions.          Tan
nin, by being      dissolved in water,  increases its specific gravi
ty, and the hydrometer has been used for estimating the
strength of the tanning ooze. The results given by this in
strument are, however, often fallacious in comparative ex
periments, in consequence of the presence of extractive "
matter, and of saline substances ; and the action of the so-
lution of gelatine affords the best indication of the quantity
of the tanning principle.
    The solution of gelatine most proper for the general pur
poses of experiments, is made by dissolving an ounce of
glue, or of isinglass, in three pints of boiling   * water.
            •
                                                                 The

            Observations   on the Processes  of Tanning.         6l
   The substance to be examined as to its tanning power
may be used in the quantity of two ounces ; it should be in
a state of coarse powder, or in small fragments. A quart of
boiling water will be sufficient to dissolve its astringent
principles.
    The solution of glue, or gelatine, must be poured into the
astringent infusion, till the effect of precipitation is at an end.
    The turbid liquor must then be passed through a piece of
blotting-paper, which has been before weighed.
    When the precipitate has been collected, and the paper
dried, the increase of its weight is determined ; and about f-
of this increase of weight may be taken as the quantity of
tannin in the ounce of the substance examined.
    When solution of gelatine cannot be obtained, a solution
of albumen may be used. It is made by agitating the white
of an egg in a pint of cold water. It does not putrefy nearly
so readily as the solution of glue, and it may be employed
with equal advantage in experiments of comparison ; but the
composition of the precipitates it forms with tannin, has
not as yet been ascertained.
    The tanning principle in different vegetables is possessed
of the same general characters; but it often exists in them
 in states of combination with other substances.
    In galls it is in union with the gallic acid. In sumach it
 is mixed with saline matter, particularly sulphate of lime ;
 and in thegreater number of barks it is in combination with
 mucilage, and different extractive and colouring matters.
    Leather tanned by means of different astringent infu
 sions, differs considerably in its composition; but it seldom
 contains more than 1 -3d of its weight of vegetable matter.
     Gallic acid, and saline matters in general, in cases when
 they are combined with tannin, are not absorbed with it by
 skin; but they remain in their primitive forms.
    The leather made from infusions of Aleppo galls, and
 of sumach, is composed probably of pure tannin and the
 matter of skin.      Its colour is very pale, and the increase of
 weight is greater than in most other cases.
    Extractive, or colouring matters, in cases when they exist
 in astringent infusions, as in the instance of oak bark al
 ready mentioned, are wholly or partly absorbed with the
 tannin by the skin. The leather from barks in general is
 coloured, and contains different proportious of extractive
 matter.
     Of all the substances that have been examined as to their
 tanning properties, catechu or terra japonica, is that which
 is richest in the tanning principle.        This substance is the
             3                                               extract

  fifi       Observations   on the Processes     of Tanning.
  extract of the wood of a species of the mimosa, which grows
  abundantly in India ; and calculating on its price, and on
  the quantities in which it may be procured, there is great
  reason to believe that it may be made a valuable article of
 commerce.
      In a paper published in the Philosophical Transactions^
 for 1803 *, a statement is given of the comparative value of
 different astringent substances, oak bark being considered
 as the standard.
     The attraction of tannin for water is much stronger than
 that of any other of the principles usually found in astrin
 gent vegetables ; and the saturated infusions obtained from
 substances containing very different proportions of astrin
 gent matters, are usually possessed of the same degree of
 strength with regard to their tanning powers.
     When saturated solutions of the tanning principle are
 used in the process of manufacture, the leather is tanned in
a much shorter time than in the common operation with
weaker infusions.        The rapid method of tanning has been
 recommended by Mr. Seguin ; and is ably described in a
pamphlet published by Mr. Desmond.
     It has however been generally observed, that leal her too
•uickly tanned is more rigid, and more liable to crack than
leather slowly tanned. And there is every reason to be
 lieve that its texture must be less equable, as the exterior
strata of skin would be perfectly combined with tannin be
fore the interior strata were materially acted Upon ; and the
want of colouring or extractive matter in the strongest lixi
vium, in many cases must affect the nature of the leather.
     The substances used for tanning should, in all cases, be
preserved in as dry a state as possible before they are used.
When they are exposed to moisture and air, the tanning
principle by degrees is destroyed in them, and for the most
part converted into insoluble matter.
    The process of drying bark by heat, when carefully con
ducted, must, as there is great reason to believe, on the
whole be advantageous.          1lie tanning principle is not de
composed     at a temperature below 400°.           And in fresh ve
getable substances,     tannin   appears  to be  sometimes   develop
ed or formed by the long application of a low heat : this
fact I observed with my friend Mr. Poole in September
1 802, with regard      to acorns ; and I have since made the
same    remark  upon   the  horse chesnut.
                          * See our next artele.
                                                          VIII.    An

                                t      63    ]
VIII. An     Account     of   some Experiments            and Observations
  on the constituent Parts of certain astringent Vegetables }
  and on tlieir Operation in Tanning. By Humphry Davy,
  Esq., Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution.*
The discovery made       by M. Seguin, of a peculiar vegetable
matter which is essential to the tanning of skin, and which
is possessed of the property of precipitating gelatine from
its solutions, has added considerably to our knowledge of the
constituent parts of astringent vegetables.
   Mr. Proust has investigated many of the properties of
this substance ; but though his labours, and those of other
chemists, have led to various interesting observations, yet
they are far from having exhausted the subject. The affi
nities of tannin have been hitherto very little examined ;
and the manner in which its action upon animal matters it
modified by combination with other substances, has been
scarcely at all studied.
   At the desire of the managers of the Royal Institution,                   I
began, in September 1801, a series of experiments on the
substances employed in the process of tanning, and on the
chemical agencies concerned in it. These experiments have
occupied, ever since, a considerable portion of my leisure
hours ; and I now presume to lay before the Royal Society
an account of their general results. My chief design was, to
attempt to elucidate the practical part of the art : but in pur
suing  it,
        I   was necessarily led to general chemical inquiries,
concerning the analysis of the different vegetable substances
containing tannin, and their peculiar properties.
I.   Observations      on the   Analysis         of   astringent Vegetable
                                Infusions.
   The substances that have been supposed to exist most ge
nerally in astringent infusions are, tannin, gallic acid, and
•xtractive matter.
   The presence of tannin in an infusion,       denoted by the
                                                          is
precipitate   forms with the solution of glue or of isinglass.
             it
And, when this principle      wholly separated,
                                 is                the remain  if
ing liquor gives    dark colour with tjie oxygenated salts of
                     a
iron, and an immediate precipitate with the solutions of
alum and of muriate of tin,         believed to contain gallic
                                       it   is
acid and extractive matter.
   The experiments of MM. Fourcroy, Vauquelin, and Se-
             ¦*   From Philosophical                    for 1803.
                                        Trantactkras
                                                                      guin.

64            Experiments and Observations    on the
guin, have shown that many astringent solutions undergo
a change by exposure to the atmosphere ; an insoluble mat
ter being precipitated from them.      A precipitation is like
wise occasioned in them by the action of heat ; and these
circumstances render it extremely difficult to ascertain, with
any degree of precision, the quantities of their constituent
parts, as they exist in the primitive combination.
    After trying several experiments on different methods- of
ascertaining the quantity of tannin in astringent infusions,
I  was induced to employ the common process of precipita
tion by gelatine, as being the most accurate.
    This process, however, requires many precautions. The
tanning principle in different vegetables, as will be seen
hereafter, demands for its saturation different proportions
of gelatine; and the quantity of the precipitate obtained
by filtration is not always exactly proportional to the quan
tities of tannin and gelatine in solutions, but is influenced
by the degree of their concentration.       Thus I found that
 10 grains of dry isinglass, dissolved in two ounces of di
stilled water, gave, with solution of galls in excess, a pre
cipitate weighing, when dry, 1 7 grains ; whilst the same
quantity, dissolved in six ounces of water, produced, all
other circumstances being similar, not quite 15 grains.
With more diluted solutions, the loss was still greater;
and analogous effects took place, when equal portions of
the same solution of isinglass were acted on by equal por
tions of the same infusion of galls diluted in different de
grees with water; the least quantity of precipitate being
always produced by the least concentrated liquor.          In all
cases, when the weak solutions were used, it was observed
that the residual fluid, though passed two or three times
through the liltcr, still remained more or less turbid and
opaque ; so that it is most likely that the deficiency arose
from the continued suspension of some of the minutely di
vided solid matter in the liquid mass.
    The solutions of gelatine, for the purposes of analysis,
should be employed only when quite fresh, and in as high
a state of saturation as is compatible with their perfect flu
idity.   I have observed that, in cases when they approach
towards the state of jelly, their power of acting upon tannin
is materially altered, and they produce only a very slight
precipitation.    As the degree of fluidity of solutions of ge
latine is influenced by their temperature, I have found it
expedient, in all comparative experiments, to bring them,
and the astringent infusions on which they are designed to
act, as nearly as possible to a common degree of heat. My
                                                       standard

                  constituent    Parts of astringent   Vegetables.        65
 standardtemperature has been between 60° and 70° Fah
 renheit and the solutions of gelatine that I have used were
              ;
 made by dissolving 1 20 grains of isinglass in 20 ounces of
 water.
         In ascertaining        the   proportions of tannin in astringent
 infusions, great care must be taken to prevent the presence
 of any excess of gelatine ; for when this excess exists,                  I
 have found that a small portion of the solid compound
 formed is redissolved, and the results of the experiment
 otherwise affected. It is not difficult to discover the precise
 point of saturation, if the solution of isinglass be added only
 in small quantities at a time, and if portions of the clear
 liquor be passed through a niter at different periods of the
 process.   The properties of these portions will indicate the
 quantities of the solution of gelatine required for the com
 pletion of the experiment.
    That the composition of any precipitate containing tan
 nin and gelatine may be known with a tolerable degree of
 precision, it is necessary that the isinglass employed in the
 solution, and the new compound formed, be brought as
 nearly as possible to the same degree of dryness.      For this
 purpose I have generally exposed them, for an equal time,
 upon the lower plate of a sand-bath, which was seldom
 heated to more than 150°. This method 1 have found much
 better than that of drying at the temperatures of the atmo
 sphere, as the different states of the air, with regard to
 moisture, materially influence the results.
    Mr. Hatchett has noticed, in his excellent paper on Zoo
 phytes, &c.*, that isinglass is almost wholly composed of
gelatine. I have found that 100 grains of good and dry isin
glass contain rather more than 98 grains of matter soluble in
water. So that when the quantity of isinglass, in any so
lution employed for acting upon an astringent infusion, is
compared with the quantity of the precipitate obtained, the
difference between them will indicate the proportion of tan
nin, as it exists in the combination.
    After the tannin has been separated from an astringent
infusion, for the purpose of ascertaining its other compo
nent parts, I have been accustomed to evaporate the resi
dual liquor very slowly, at a temperature below 200°t-        In
                                                            this
     *
      Philosophical Transactions for 1800, p. 327.
  •J- M. DeyeUx has shown Annates d- Coimie, tome xvii. p. 36), that in
                                      (
the process of evaporating solutions of galls, no gjllic acd  iscarried over
by  the warer at    temperature belo>v that of condition.
                      <t                                      Many astiin-
gent infusions, however, lose      portion of their aromatic principle even
                                          a
in cases when thev are noc made to boil     but this substance, thojgh evi-
                                                  ;
   Voi. XVII. No. 65.                         E                         dent

66.                  Experiment    i and Observations on         the
this process, if it contains extractive matter, that substancft
is in part rendered insoluble, so as to fall to the bottom of
the vessel.           When the fluid is reduced to a thick consist-^
ence, I pour alcohol upon it.                 If any gallic acid or soluble
extractive matter be present, they will be dissolved, alter a
little agitation, in the alcohol; whilst the mucilage, if any
exist, will remain unaltered, and may be separated from the
insoluble e-stra-ct by hxiviation with water.
        I have made many experiments with the hope of disco- !
vering a method by which the respective quantities of gallic
acid and extractive matter, when they exist in solution in-
 the alcohol, may be ascertained,               but without obtaining suc
 cess in the results.            It is impossible to render the whole of
 any quantity of extractive matter insoluble by exposure to
 heat and air, without at the same time decomposing a por
 tion of the gallic acid. That acid cannot be sublimed with
 out being in part destroyed ; and, at the temperature of its
 sublimation, extractive matter is wholly converted into new
 products.
        Ether dissolves gallic acid ; but it has comparatively little
 action upon extractive matter. I have been able, in exa
 mining solutions of galls, to separate a portion of gallic
 acid by means of ether.                But when the extractive matter
 is in large quantities, this method does not succeed, as, in
 consequence of that affinity which is connected with mass*,
 the greatest part of the acid continues to adhere to the ex
 tract.
        Alumine has a strong attraction for extractive matter, but
 comparatively a weak one for gallic acid f. When car
 bonate of alumine is boiled for some time with a solution
 containing extractive matter, the extractive matter is wholly
  taken up Dy the earth, with which it forms an insoluble
  compound ; but into this compound some of the gallic
  acid appears likewise to enter; and the portion remaining
  dissolved in the solution is always combined with alumine.
         I have not, in any instance, been able to separate gallic
  acid and extractive matter perfectly from each other ; but I
  have generally endeavoured               to form some judgment con
  cerning their relative proportions, by means of the action
  of the salts of alumine and the oxygenated salts of iron.
  Muriate of alumine precipitates much of the extractive
 dent to the smell,        in the water that comes   over,  cannot be detected by
 chemical reagents.
       ''                                               '
           Sec Beithollet, Rabercbis sur In Lois    de t Ajffiniti.  Mint, de I'ln-
  :/.!:>..   National, lomc iii. p. 5.
       + See Fiedler,    Journal  d< Chimie, par J. B. Van Modi, tome i. p. St.
                   1                                                       matter

            constituent Parts   of astringent    Vegetables.         67
 matter from solutions, without acting materially upon gallic
 acid  ; and, after this precipitation, some idea may be formed
 •concerning the quantity of the gallic acid by the colour it
 gives with the oxygenated sulphate of iron.              In this pro
 cess, however, great care must be taken not to add the so
 lution of the sulphate of iron in excess ; for in this case
the black precipitate formed with the gallic acid will be re-
dissolvedj and a clear olive-coloured fluid only will be ob
tained.
    The saline matters in astringent infusions adhere so
•trongly to the vegetable principles, that it is impossible
to ascertain their nature, with any degree of accuracy, by
means of common reagents.             Bv incineration of the pro
ducts obtained from the evaporation of astringent infusions,
I have usually procured carbonate of lime and carbonate of
potish.
    In the different analyses, as will be seen from the results
given in the following sections, I have attended chiefly to
the proportions of the tanning principle, and of the prin
ciples precipitable by the salts of iron, as being most con
nected with practical applications.
   With regard to the knowledge of the nature of the dif
ferent substances, as they exist in the primitive astringent
infusion, we can gain, by our artificial methods of exa
mination, only very imperfect approximations.                In acting
upon    them   by reagents   we   probably,   in   many   cases,  alter
their nature ; and very few of them only can be obtained in
an uncombined state.          The comparison, however, of the
products of different experiments with each other is always
connected with some useful conclusions ; and the accumu
lation of facts with regard to the subject must finally tend
to elucidate this obscure but most interesting part of che
mistry*
           II.  Experiments on the Infusions       of Galls.
    I have been very much assisted, in my inquiries concern
ing the properties of the infusions of galls, by the able me
moir of M. Deyeux on Galls*.
    The strongest infusion of galls that I could obtain at 56°
Fahrenheit, by repeatedly pouring distilled water upon the
best Aleppo galls broken into small pieces, and suffering it
to remain in contact with them till the saturation was com
plete, was of the specific gravity 1*068.               Four hundred
grains of it produced, by evaporation at a temperature be-
                  * Annates dc C»in>c,  oruc xvii. p. i.
                                 E  2                              low

68                .   Experiments and Observations on Hie
low 200°, fifty-three grains of solid matter; which, as we!l
as I could estimate by the methods of analysis      that have
been just described, consisted of about nine-tenths of tan
nin, or matter precipitable by gelatine, and one-tenth of
gallic acid, united to a minute portion of extractive matter.
    100 grains of the solid matter obtained from the infusion
left, after incineration, nearly 4| grains of ashes ; which
were chiefly calcareous matter, mixed with a small portion
of fixed alkali. The infusion strongly reddened paper tinged
with litmus.     It was semitransparent, and of a yellowish-
brown colour.      Its taste was highly astringent.
   When sulphuric acid was poured into the infusion a dense
wliitish precipitate was produced ; and this effect was con
stant, whatever quantity of the acid was used. The residual
liquor, when passed through the filter, was found of a shade
of colour deeper than before. It precipitated gelatine, and
gave a dark colour with the oxygenated sulphate of iron.
   The solid matter remaining on the filter slightly reddened
vegetable blues j and, when dissolved in warm water, co
piously precipitated the solutions of isinglass. M. Proust*,
who first paid attention to its properties, supposes that it is
a compound of the acid with tannin : but I suspect that it
also contains gallic acid, and probably a small portion of
extractive matter. This last substance, as is well known,
is thrown down from its solutions by sulphuric acid ; and
1 found, in distilling the precipitate from galls by sulphuric
acid, at a heat above 212°, that a fluid came over of a light-
yellow colour, which was rendered black by oxygenated
sulphate of iron, but which was not altered by gelatine.
   Muriatic acid produced, in the infusion, effects analogous
to those produced by sulphuric acid ; and two compounds
of the acid and the vegetable substances were formed : the
one united to excess of acid, which remained in solution ;
the other containing a considerable quantity of tannin,
which was precipitated in the solid form.
   When concentrated nitric acid was made to act upon the
infusion, it was rendered turbid ; but the solid matter formed
was immediately dissolved with effervescence, and the liquor
thon became clear, and of an orange colour. On examining
it,   was found that both the tannin and the gallic acid
      it
were destroyed      for  ;gave no precipitate either with gela
                               it
tine or the salts of iron, even after the residual nitric acid
was saturated       an alkali." By evaporation of
                         by                          portion of
                                                              a
     "*   The fact of the precipitation of the solution of galls    by    acids wai
noticed      byM. Dizc. See Annates d( Cbitnie, tome xxxv.     p.   37.
                                                                               the

           eonstituent  Paris of astringent Vegetables.         6
 the fluid a soft substance was obtained, of a yellowish-
brown colour, and of a slightly sourish taste. It was soluble
in water, and precipitated the nitro-muriate of tin, and the
nitrate of alumine ; so that its properties approached to
 those of extractive matter ; and it probably contained oxalic
acid, as it rendered turbid a solution of muriate of lime.
    When a very weak solution of nitric acid was mixed with
the infusion, a permanent precipitate was formed ; and the
residual liquor, examined by the solution of gelatine, was.
found to contain tannin.
    A solution of pure potash was poured into a portion of
the infusion.     At first a faint turbid appearance was per
ceived ; but by agitation the fluid became clear, and its-
colour changed from yellow-brown to brown-red ; and this
last tint was most vivid on the surface, where the solution
was exposed to the atmosphere.        The solution of isinglass
did not act upon the infusion modified by the alkali till an
acid was added in excess, when a copious precipitation was
occasioned.
    The compound of potash and solution of galls, when eva
 porated, appeared in the form of an olive-coloured mass,
 which had a faint alkaline taste, and which slowly deli
 quesced when exposed to the air.
    Soda acted upon the infusion in the same manner as pot
 ash ; and a fluid was formed of a red-brown colour, which
gave no precipitate to gelatine.
    Solution of ammonia produced the same colour as potash
 and soda, and formed so perfect an union with the tannin
of the infusion that it was not acted upon by gelatine.
 When the compound liquor was exposed to the heat of
boiling water, a part of the ammonia flew off", and another
part reacted upon the infusion so as to effect a material
 change in its properties.    A considerable quantity of inso
 luble matter was formed, and the remaining liquor con
tained little tannin and gallic acid, but a considerable por
tion of a substance that precipitated muriate of tin and the
salts of alumine.
    When the experiment on the ebullition of the compound
of the infusion and ammonia was made in close vessels, the
 liquor that came over was strongly impregnated with am
 monia ; its colour was light yellow, and, when saturated
 with an acid, it was very little ^altered by the salts of iron.
 The residual fluid after the process had been continued for
 some time, as in the other case, precipitated gelatine slightly,
but the salts of alumine copiously; and it gave a tinge of
 red to litmus paper.
                               Ea                          When

70           Experiments and Observations      on the
    When solution of lime, of strontia, or of barytes, was
poured in excess into a portion of the infusion, a copious
olive-coloured precipitate was formed, and the solution be
came almost clear, and of a reddish tint.        In this case the
tannin, the gallic acid, and the extractive matter, seemed
to be almost wholly carried down in the precipitates ; as the
residual fluids, when saturated by an acid, gave no precipi
tate to gelatine, and only a very slight tint of purple to oxy
genated sulphate of iron.
    When the solutions of the alkaline earths were used only
in small quantities, the infusion being in excess, a- smaller
quantity of precipitate was formed, and the residual liquor
was of an olive-green colour ; the tint being darkest in the
 experiment with the barytes, and lightest in that with the
lime.     This fluid, when examined, was found to hold in
 solution a compound of gallic acid and alkaline earth,           It
became turbid      when   acted on by   a little sulphuric   acid  ;
 and, after being filtrated, gave a black colour with the solu
 tions of iron, but was not acted upon by gelatine.
     When a large proportion of lime was heated for some
 time with the infusion, it combined with all its constituent
 principles, and gave, by washing, a fluid which had the
 taste of lime water, and which held in solution only a very
 small quantity of vegetable matter.        Its colour was pale
 yellow ; and, when saturated with muriatic acid, it did not
 precipitate gelatine, and gave only a slight purple tinge to
 the solutions of the salts of iron. The lime in combination
 with the solid matter of the infusion was of a fawn colour.
 It became green at its surface, where it was exposed to the
 air ; and, when washed with large quanties of water, it con
 tinued to give, even to the last portions, a pale yellow tinge,
     Magnesia was boiled in one portion of the infusion for a
 few hours ; and mixed in excess with another portion, which
 was suffered to remain cold.      In both cases a deep green
 fluid was obtained, which precipitated the salts of iron but
 not the solutions of gelatine ; and the magnesia had acquired
  a grayish-grccn tint.    Water poured upon it became sjreen,
  and acquired the properties of the fluid at first obtained.
 After long washing the colour of the magnesia changed to
  dirty yellow ; and the last portions of water made to act
 upon it were pale yellow, and altered very little the solu
  tions of iron.
     When the magnesia was dissolved in muriatic acid, a
 brownish and turbid fluid was obtained, which precipitated
  gelatine and the oxygenated salts of iron.      So that there is
 every reason to believe that the earth, in acting on the
                                                       .astringent

               constituent Parts of a.itiingent    Vegetables.        71
   astringent infusion, had formed two combinations; one
   containing chiefly gallic acid, which was easily soluble in
   water; the other containing chiefly tannin, which was very
   difficultly soluble.
      Alumine boiled with the infusion became yellowish-gray,
   and gave a clear white fluid, which produced only a tinge
  of light purple iu the solutions of iron. When the earth *
  was employed in a very small quantity, however, it formed
   an insoluble compound only with the tannin and the ex
  tract, and the residual liquor was found to contain a gal-
  late of alumine with excess of acid.
      The oxides of tin and of zinc, obtained by nitric acid,
  were boiled with separate portions of the infusion for two
  hours.      In both cases a clear fluid, which appeared to be
  pure water, was obtained ; and the oxides gained a tint of
  dull yellow.      A part of each of them was dissolved in mu'-
  riatic acid. The solution obtained was yellow; it copiously
  precipitated gelatine, and gave a dense black with the salts
  of iron. Mr. Proust f, who first observed the action of
  oxide of tin upon astringent infusions, supposes that por
  tions of tannin and gallic acid are decomposed in the pro
  cess, or converted, by the oxygen of the oxide, into new
  substances.      These experiments do not, however, appear
  to confirm the supposition.
     M. Deyeux observed that a copious precipitation was
 occasioned in infusion of galls, by solutions of the alkalis
combined with carbonic acid. Mr. Proust has supposed
 that the solid matter formed is pure tannin, separated from
its solution by the stronger affinity of the alkali for water ;
and he recommends the process as a method of obtaining
  tannin.
.    In examining the precipitate obtained by carbonate of
potash fully combined with carbonic acid, and used to sa
turation, I have not been able to recognise in it the proper
ties which are usually ascribed to tannin : it is not possessed
of the astringent taste, and it is but slightly soluble in cold
water or in alcohol.          Its solution acts very little upon ge
latine, till it is saturated with an acid ; and it is not posses
 sed of the property of tanning skin.
     In various cases in which the greatest care was taken to
«se no excess, either of the astringent infusion or of the
alkaline solution, I have found the solid matter obtained
possessed of analogous properties 5 and it has always given,
    • Mr. Fiedler, I believe, first observed the action of alumine upon
lannin,— V3n Mori's Journal, vol. i. p. 86.   .                       ,
    t Amide i de Cbimie, tome xlii. p- 69.
                                    E4                               by

7<2            Experhnenls and Observations     on tlie
by incineration, a considerable portion of carbonate of pot-,
ash. and a small quantity of carbonate of lime.
    rI he fluid remaining after the separation     of the precipi
tate was of a dark brown colour, and became green at the
surface when it was exposed to the air.         It gave no preci
 pitate   to  solution  of gelatine,  and afforded  only an olives
 coloured precipitate with the salts of iron.
     When muriatic acid was poured into the clear fluid, a
 violent effervescence was produced ; the fluid became tur
 bid; a precipitate was deposited; and the residual liquor
 acted upon gelatine and the salts of iron in a manner sir
 milar to the primitive infusion.
     M. Deyeux, in distilling the precipitate from infusion
 of galls by carbonate of potash, obtained crystals of gallic
 acid.      In following his process, I had similar, results ; and
 a fluid came over which reddened, litmus paper, and preT
 cipitated the salts of iron black, but did not act upon gelar
 tine.
     When the precipitate bv carbonate of potash was acted
  upon by warm water, applied in large quantities, a consi
  derable portion of it was dissolved ; but a part remained
  which could not in any way be made to enter into solution,
  and its properties were very different from those of the enr
  tire precipitate.    It was not at all affected by alcohol : it
  was acted     on  by muriatic acid, and partially dissolved ; and
  the solution precipitated gelatine and the salts of iron.        It
  afforded, by incineration, a considerable portion of lime,
  but no alkali.
       In comparing these facts it would seem that the preci
  pitate from infusion of galls consists partly of tannin and
  gallic acid united to a small quantity of alkali, and partly
  of these vegetable matters combined with calcareous earth ;
   and it will appear probable, when the facts hereafter detailed
   are examined, that both the potash and the lime are con
   tained in these compounds in a state of union with carbonic
   acid.
       The solutions of carbonate of soda and of carbonate of
   ammonia, hoth precipitated the infusion of galls in a man
   ner similar to the carbonate of potash ; and each of the prer
   cipitates, when acted on by boiling water, left a small quan
   tity of insoluble matter, which seemed to consist chiefly of
   tannin and carbonate of lime.                                •
                                                                  . ,
        The entire precipitate by carbonate of soda produced,
   ¦when incinerated, carbonate of soda and carbonate of lime.
   The precipitate by carbonate of ammonia, w hen exposed to
   a heat sufficient to boil water, in a retort having a receiver
                                                            attached

           constituent         Parts of astringent    Vegetables.           J3
attached to    it,gave out carbonate of ammonia, (which was
condensed in small crystals in the neck of the retort,) and
a  yellowish fluid, which had the strong smell and taste of
this volatile salt.   Alter the process of distillation, the solid
matter remaining was found of a dark brown colour             part  ;   a
of readily dissolved in cold water, and the solution acted
     it
on gelatine.
   The residual fluid of the portions of the infusion which
had been acted on              by
                           the carbonates of soda and of ammo
nia, as in the instance of the carbonate of potash, gave no
precipitate with gelatine, till they were saturated with an
acid; so that in all these cases the changes arc strictly
analogous.
    The infusion of galls, as appears from the analysis, con
tains in its primitive state calcareous matter. By the action
of the mild alkalis, this substance              is
                                              preciptated    in union
with a- portion of the vegetable matter, in the form of an
insoluble compound.          The alkalis themselves at the same
time enter into actual combination with the remaining
tannin and gallic acid        and
                                ;    part of the compound formed
                                       a
is  precipitated, whilst another part remains in solution.
.   When the artificial carbonates qf lime, magnesia, and
 barytes, were separately boiled with the portions of infu
 sion of galls for some hours, they combined with the tan
nin contained in          so as to form with
                           it                         insoluble com
                                                           it
 pounds and in each case
          ;                        deep green fluid was obtained,
                                      a
 which gave no precipitate to gelatine even when an acid
 was added, but which produced             deep black colour in the
                                             a
 solutions of the salts of iron.
    Sulphate qf lime, when finely divided, whether natural
 or artificial, after having been long heated with               small
                                                                    a
 quantity of the infusion, was found to have combined with
 the tannin of       it,
                      and to have gained        faint tinge of light
                                                  a
 brown.     The liquid became of            blue-green colour, and
                                             a
 acted upon the salts of iron, but not upon gelatine               and  ;
 there     every reason to suppose that
          is                                      held in solution
                                                      it                     a
 triple compound, of prallic acid, sulphuric acid, and lime.
    We owe to Mr. Proust the discovery that different solu
 tions of the neutral salts precipitate the infusion of galls;
 and he supposes that the precipitation               owing to their
                                                           is
 combining     with     portion
                           a     of  the  water   which  held the ve
 getable  matter   in  solution.    In examining    the  solid matters
 thrown down from the infusion                   by
                                               sulphate of alumine,
 nitrate of potash, acetite of potash, muriate of soda, and
 muriate of barytes,        found them, soluble, to
                               I                           certain ex,
                                                                a
                                                                  tent,

74              Experiments and Observations        on the
  tent, in water, and possessed of the power of acting upon
  gelatine.     From the products given by their incineration
  and by their distillation, I am, however, inclined to believo
  that they contain, besides tannin, a portion of gallic acid
  and extractive matter, and a quantity of the salt employed
  jn the primitive solution.
      It is well known that many of the metallic solutions oc
  casion dense precipitates in the infusion of galls ; and it has
 beci\ generally supposed that these precipitates are composed
  of taunin and extractive matter, or of those two substances
 and gallic acid united to the metallic oxide ; but from the
 observation of different processes of this kind, in which the
 jalts of iron and of tin were employed, I am inclined to
 believe that they contain also a portion of the acid of the
 saline compound.
      When the muriate of tin was made to act upon a portion
 of the infusion, till no more precipitation could be produced
 in  it,  the fluid that passed through the filter still acted upon
 gelatine, and seemed to contain no excess of acid               ;  for   it
 gave  a    precipitate to carbonate of potash without producing
                                                                          by by
 effervescence.       The solid compound, when decomposed
 sulphuretted hydrogen, after the manner recommended
 Mr. Proust, was found strongly to redden litmus paper, and
it   copiously precipitated nitrate of silver; whereas the pri
 mitive infusion only rendered          it  slightly turbid so that
                                                             ;
 there     isevery reason to believe that the precipitate contained
 muriatic acid.
     By passing the black and turbid fluid, procured                 by
                                                                      the
 action of solution of oxygenated sulphate of iron in excess
 upon  a    portion of the infusion, through finely-divided pure
 flint, contained in four folds of filtrating paper,        I  obtained
a   light olive-green    fluid,in  which    there  was   no  excess     of
 sulphuric     acid,  and  whichI     am  inclined   to suppose    was    a
solution of the compound of gallic acid and sulphate of iron,
with superabundance of metallic salt.          I   have already men
tioned     that gallic acid,   when  in very  small  proportion, clues
 not precipitate the oxygenated salts of iron and Mr. Proust,
                                                    ;
in his ingenious paper upon the Difference of the Salts of
iron, has supposed that, in the formation of ink,            a  portion
of the oxide of iron in union with gallic acid               dissolved
                                                            is
by the sulphuric acid of the sulphate. This comes near to
the opinion that they form       a  triple compound     ; and,   in  rea
soning upon       the  general  phenomena,     it  seems  fair  to con
clude that,     in  the ease of the precipitation of tannin bv the
*sajts of tin and of iron, compounds are formed, of tannin
                                                                      and.

           constituent Parts of astringent   Vegetables,       75
and the salts j and that, of these compounds, such as con
tain tin are slightly soluble in water, whilst those that con
tain iron are almost wholly insoluble.
    In examining the action of animal substances upon the
infusion of galls, with the view of ascertaining the compo
sition of the compounds of gelatine and of skin with tan
nin,   I found that a saturated solution of gelatine, which
contained the soluble matter of 50 grains of dry isinglass,
produced from the infusion a precipitate that weighed nearly
91 grains ; and in another instance, a solution containing
30 grains of isinglass gave about 56 grains j so that, taking
ihe mean of the two experiments, and allowing for the small
quantity of insoluble matter in isinglass, we may conclude
that 1 00 grains of the compound gelatine and tannin, formed
by precipitation from saturated solutions, contain about 54
grains of gelatine, and 46 of tanriin.
    A piece of dry calf-skin, perfectly free from extraneous
matter, that weighed 180 grains, after being prepared for
tanning by long immersion in water, was tanned in a por
tion ot the infusion, being exposed to it for three weeks.
When dry, the leather weighed 295 grains ; so that, con
sidering this experiment as accurate, leather quickly tanned
by means of an infusion of galls consists of about 61 grains
 of skin, and 39 of vegetable matter, in 100 grains.
    After depriving a portion of the infusion of all its tanning
matter, by repeatedly exposing it to the action of pieces of
 skin, I found that it gave a much slighter colour to oxy
genated sulphate of iron than an equal portion of a similar
 infusion which had been immediately precipitated by solu
tion of isinglass ; but I am inclined to attribute this effect,
not to any absorption of gallic acid by the skin, but rather
 to the decomposition of it by the long continued action of
 the atmosphere ; for much insoluble matter had been pre
 cipitated during the process of tanning, and the residuum
 contained a small portion of acetous acid.
    In ascertaining the quantity of tannin in galls, I found
 that 500 grains qf good Aleppo galls gave, t>y lixiviation
 with pure water till their soluble parts were taken up, and
 subsequent    slow evaporation, 185 grains of solid matter.
 Arid tpis matter, examined by analysis, appeared to consist
   Of tannin         -      -       -      t     -       130 grs.
   Of mucilage, and matter rendered insoluble by
        evaporation        -       -       -      -       12
   Of gallic acid, with a little extractive matter - 31
   Kcmainder, calcareous earth and saline matter          12
   Thc fluid obtained, by the last lixiviation of galls, as
                                                      M. Deyeux

 7<5             Extract from     the third Volume     of
M.    Deyeux observed, is pale green ; and I am inclined ta
believe that it is chiefly a weak solution of gallate of lime.
The ashes of galls, deprived of soluble matter, furnish a
very considerable quantity of calcareous earth. And the
property which M. Deyeux discovered in the licjuor of the
last lixiviations, of becoming red by the action of acids, and
of regaining the green colour by means of alkalis, I have
observed, more or less, in all the soluble compounds con-,
gaining gallic acid and the alkaline earths,
                           [To  be continued.]
IX» Extracl from         the   third   Volume   of tlie   Analyses   of
                            M. Klaproth.
               [Continued from our last volume, p. 344.]
  Analysis of the natural Muriate of Ammonia of            Vesuvius.
After       the eruption of Vesuvius in the year 17JH> which
continued several weeks, the vapours of the burning lava
became in part condensed           into concrete salts, which were
found under different forms in the crevices and hollows of
the upper scoria; of the lava after it had cooled. The prin
cipal products of this natural sublimation are sal ammo
niac and muriate of soda.
   The sal ammoniac is sometimes pure, sometimes coloured
yellow, and for the most part crystallised in prisms of four
planes a little inclined, exceedingly brilliant and transpa
rent.
   Muriate of soda forms almost always shapeless strata of
salt fibrous in their fracture : it is rarely pure, and for the
most part mixed with an oxide of copper which commu
nicates to it a green colour more or less intense, and be
sprinkled in many places with small brilliant leaves of sparry
iron.
   The sublimated sal ammoniac ought, without doubt, to
be considered as a product of the decomposition of watev
and atmospheric air in this grand chemical operation of
 nature.
    It is not necessary to make a similar supposition to ex
plain the formation of the muriate of soda.            The sea water
which penetrates to the focus of the volcano and concurs to
its eruption contains it ready formed, while the decompo
sition of a part of this salt furnishes the free muriatic acid
 which forms muriate of ammonia.
   M. Klaproth found in his analysis that_ this muriate is

                   tlie Analyses    of M. Rlaproth.              77
perfectly pure, and that it contains only one-half per cent.
of muriate of      soda.      He found a little more in that of a
variety the crystallisation of which was less regular.
    The yellow variety has crystals of the same form : they
 have a beautiful topaz colour which arises from the com*
bination of one-eighth per cent, at most of iron.
    M. Klaproth was the more surprised at not finding sul
phate of ammonia, as the muriate of that base was formed
in an atmosphere impregnated with sulphureous vapours.
           Analysis of the Sal Ammoniac of Bucharia.
    Bucharian Tartary furnishes an ammoniacal salt which
differs in its external characters from that of the lava of
Vesuvius.       We have not yet obtained sufficient ideas re
 specting   its formation and natural history.
    M. Model is the first person who made mention of it :
he assures us that several quintals of it are annually trans
 ported to Russia and Siberia, which gives reason to presume'
that it is very abundant in Bucharia.               The opinion he
forms, in regard to the rocks, is the more probable, as the
fragments of rock, which seem to be composed of argilla
 ceous schist or compact argil, are very often covered with
 sal ammoniac.         It is to be remarked, that among the grains
 of this salt there are found also small insulated fragments
 of yellow sulphur. M. Karsten has described it under the
 name of conchoid sal ammoniac.
    It is grayish white, has a rough surface, is not verv bril
 liant on the outside, and has a vitreous splendour on its
 fracture, which is perfectly conchoid.           Its fragments are
 irregularly angular ; it varies from semi-transparency to
 opacity ; it is pliant, tender, light, of a pungent taste of
 urine, and contains
          Muriate of ammonia              -     -       97-50
          Sulphate of ammonia             -     -        2-50
                                                      "Too
                          Analysis of Sassolin.
    Natural sedative salt, known under the name of sassolin,
 is a white salt interspersed with some spots of an Isabella
colour, grouped in stalactites, soft and saponaceous to the
touch, easily pulverised, and composed, in a great measure,
of   free boracic acid.
    M. Hoefer first made known at Florence the boracic acid,
which he found in the waters of the lake Cherchiaso and
in those of the lake of Castel-Nuovo.
                                                               Pro-

  J$             Extract from    the third Volume of
     Professdr Mascagni found it concrete on the borders of
                           -----
  the warm spring    of Sasso near Sienna, and gave it the name
  of sassolin.
     A hundred parts of sassolin, dissolved in boiling water
  and spirit of wine, gave in their analysis
        Boracic acid                                      86
        Sulphate of magnesia, containing a little iron    J 1
        Sulphate of lime          -                         3
                                                         loo
              Supplement   to the  Article on Sassolin.
    M. Klaproth joins to this analysis of natural boracic' acid
 that of a gray sandy powder mixed with fragments of mica,
 which are collected in the lagunas, and which was sent to
 him under the name of loto.
     1st. A small quantity of that powder communicated a
 slight redness to water coloured by tincture of turnsole.
    2d. Four ounces of alcohol put to digest over 100 grains'
 of this powder, and filtered, gave no indications of boracic
 acid : on the contrary, they gate reason to suspect sulphate*
 of lime.
    3d. Water boiled with this powder acquires a taste of
sulphurated hydrogen, and strongly blackens a silver spoon.-
 It gave, by evaporation, sulphate of lime in fine needles'
which, joined to that dissolved by the alcohol, weighed $
grains.
    4th. -The powder, dried in a gentle heat, weighed 84
grains.     Being spread out on a small capsule, and gently
heated, sulphur was dissipated : it lost eight grains of its-
weight.
    5th. The residuum roasted, with double the quantity of
potash, saturated afterwards with muriatic acid, evaporated
to dryness, redissolved       in water and filtered, gave siletf
which,     when  dried,  weighed   54.
    6th. The    solution  well  neutralized  was precipitated by
the succinate of soda ; the roasted precipitate contained
three grains of oxide of iron.
    7th. The remaining liquor then gave a precipitate by'
caustic potash, which, added in excess, redissolved it.
Being saturated by an acid, ami precipitated by carbonate of
soda, it deposited aluniine which, when calcined, weighed-
16 grains.
                                                              The

                  the Analyses   of M. Klaprbth.                79
   The   sandy substance, or loto, contained then in 100 parts
            Silex                                    54
            Aluinine        -     -     -      -     16
            Oxide of iron         -                    3
            Sulphur         -                          8
             Sulphate of lime     -                    5
                                                     86
    The quantity of sulphurated hydrogen being very incon-,
siderable, the greater part of the loss arises, no doubt, from
the water.
     Analysis of the Salt of Una with capillary Filaments.
    The capillary salt of Idria (Holotricum Scopopolii) which
is found in fissures of the argillaceous scheeferthon schist,
mixed with the aluminous schist of the mines of Idria, is
of a silver-white colour, and forms needle-like or capillary
crystals, which sometimes are more than two inches in
length.      Hitherto they have been considered to be feathered
 alum, composed of sulphuric acid, alumine, lime, and iron,
 according to Scopoli.         But the analysis of Klaproth has
 shown the falsity of this opinion.
     The result of this analysis proves that the salt of Idria
 with capillary filaments contains neither alumine nor lime,
 but that it is a natural compound of sulphate of magnesia,
 containing a small quantity of the sulphate of iron.
         Analysis of the Featliered Alum of Frayemvald.
     The feathered alum, which is formed in part in the quar
 ries of argillaceous schist of Frayemvald, and particularly
 by their decomposition in the open air, has a white colour
  inclining to gray. It is composed of capillary fi!ament9
  often crooked, united sometimes in bundles not very close,
  and sometimes cemented, and forming a crust : it has a
  moderate silky splendour.
     A hundred parts of this feather alum contain
      Alumine        -      - '
                                  - '
                                        -     -      -      15-25
      Oxidulous iron        -     -     -      -     -       7-50
      Potash, sulphuric acid, and water of crystallisation 75*00
                                                           100
                         Analysis of Melilite.
      It is to the celebrated mineralogist of Freiberg that we
   have been indebted upwards of ten years for the knowledge
   •f this fossil.   The constituent principles of it     have been
                                                                  too

 SO                      Extract from               the third Volume             of
  too little known to enable us to assign to            with precision,    it,
a   place in the classification of minerals.        On account of its
  colour, which resembles that of honey, M. KJaproth calls
it   melilite.
     Melilite     found at Arten in Thuringia, but insulated and
                    is
  in small quantity in strata of turfj
     The external characters          w hich       by
                                                    known are as fol
                                                               it     is
 lows     :   Itgenerally of
                   is             honey colour, more or less dark,
                                               a
 and sometimes of         straw yellow.
                                  a           has always been found
                                                              It
 crystallised in octaedra              however rare that the crystals
                                           :   it   is
  are entire, and for the most part they have the form of py
 ramids with four faces more or less distinct.                They are
 seldom found of moderate size, being always for the most
                              a
 part small.
     The surface of them             generally smooth and brilliant,
                                               is
 sometimes rough and as             gnawed, but they have always
                                               if
 internally     vitreous splendour; their fracture
                   a                                         conchoid,               is
 and the fragments are irregularly angular.
     The crystals are rarely perfectly diaphanous in general,                    :
 they arc semi-transparent, and in the variety, which              of                          is    a
 yellow    colour, scarcely  pellucid.     Melilite  is tender, fragile,
 and easily pulverized. Reduced to powder,                of grayish-      it   is        a
 yellow colour.      Its specific gravity        550.
                                                              in is
     There are found also sometimes             the same coal mines
                                                                 1
 small pale yellow crystals of native crystal, which have                                            a
 resemblance to the straw coloured variety of melilite.
     It was at first believed that melilite         combustible fosis  a
 sil, similar to amber.      Its exterior characters seemed also to
 confirm it. But           the character of
                              if                  non-metallic com a
 bustible fossil      to feed the flame which consumes
                         is                                         this                       it,
is   not the case with melilite: when burnt                simply be             it
 comes white without being able to maintain combustion
of itself.
     M. Gilet Lamont has besides proved, in the Journal de
 Chimie for 1791, that melilite           not crystallized amber a*
                                                         is
baron de Born supposed.
    Other mineralogists have supposed that this fossil             sul                         is
phate of lime impregnated             with oil of petroleum, from
which its yellow colour arises. This opinion arose probably
from the white colour which this fossil acquires                  com                         by
bustion.            however possible, considering its rarity, that
                   It   is
it  has been imitated                 by
                              selenite coloured and cut artificially
into crystals of the same form.
     It was only from chemical analysis that              more correct      a
knowledge of this fossil could be obtained. Messrs. Lam-
padius and Abieh undertook this labour and published an,
                                                              account

                   the Analyses  of M. Klaproth.                  81
  account of it almost at the same time. But their results ex
  hibit very considerable differences :
     For melilite, according to Mr. Lampadius, is composed
  of
             Carbon       -                          85*5
             Oil of petroleum           -      -     13*5
             Silex        -                           2*0
             Water of crystallization          -      5-0
                                                     o6*Q
     According to Mr. Abich, it contains
             Benzoic acid         -                     5
             Carbon               -i      -      -     40
                      -----
             Water of crystallization            -     28
             Carbonate of al limine       -      -     16
             Benzoate of alumine       - -              5
             Oxide of iron        -                     3
             Kesin                                      9
                                                      10O
     The striking difference between        these two analyses in
 duced    M. Klaproth   to repeat them.      He made his experi
 ments on a pretty large quantity of melilite.          The  details
 are as follows :
                        Preliminary Trials.
     1st. Melilite placed on burning coals, or well exposed to
 the flame of a taper, loses its transparency and yellow co
 lour.    It becomes white, punctured with black, and at
 length altogether white, like chalk.        In this operation nei
ther smoke nor sensible light is perceived.
     2d. If melilite, reduced to a powder, be boiled with a
 sufficient quantity of water, this fossil becomes decomposed;
 the water acquires the properties of an acid, and suffers to
 be deposited a gray flaky earth.
     3d. The entire crystals of melilite immersed in nitric acid
 dissolve completely, without heat, in the course of a few
 minutes.     The liquor always remains clear till they are
entirely dissolved. This process exhibits a sure and easy
means of distinguishing real melilite from adulterated sub
stances with which it might be confounded.
     4th. If the crystals be put into muriatic acid, the acid
Joes not remain clear like the nitric acid ; it becomes whitish
     Vol. XVII. No. 65.              F                          and

82               Extract from   the third Volume   of
and nebulous : the crystals even are not entirely dissolved at
the end of some days.
     5th. In concentrated sulphuric acid, fragments of mil ilile
do not fall to the bottom but float at the surface.     They are
gradually converted into white flakes, without giving clear
solutions : this, however, takes place when the acid is di
luted with water.
     6th. Acetic acid exercises no action on melilite.
     7th. Solution of caustic soda converted fragments of this
fossil into white flakes, and dissolved them almost entirely.
     8th. Solution of caustic ammonia changed them also at
length into white flakes, but without dissolving them.
     Melilite thrown on saltpetre in a state of fusion, pro
 duced no real detonation.       The morsels of this fossil burn
merely      with a faint and transient  light, and become mixed
with the fused saltpetre under the form of a white earth.
     M. Klaproth then analysed them in the dry and in the
moist way.
     1st. Fifty grains of pulverized melilite, mixed with 75
grains of crystallized carbonate of soda, were boiled in a phial
with a sufficient quantity of water. There was a reciprocal
 action between these two substances, with a disengagement
of the carbonic acid of the soda. After the decomposition
 of the melilite effected bv the soda, the earthv part deposited
 on the filter, when washed and dried, weighed 8i grains,
 and was found to be alumine.
     The soda in solution was in a great measure neutralized :
 Mr. Klaproth completed the saturation of it with acetous
 acid, and evaporated the liquor gently to dryness. The
 acetitc of soda thence resulting was separated from the
 saline mass by small quantities of alcohol poured over it
 at several times. The residuum was then dissolved in water,
 from which were precipitated crystals of a neutral salt, the
 acid of which had consequently been furnished bv the me
 lilite.  •
      It results from this analysis that melilite is composed of
 alumine and an acid.
     2d. Fifty grains of pulverized melilite put into a stopped
 flask, containing a cold solution of caustic ammonia, and
 frequently stirred, were decomposed ; and twenty-four hours
 after the bottom of the glass was lined with a multitude
 of small crystals of a neutral salt, formed by the acid of
 the melilite and ammonia: they were covered with a slight
 brown stratum of alumine, arising from the decomposition
 of that fossil. The liquor was heated, and diluted with *
                                                        sufficient

                     tlie Analyses of M. Klaproth.               83
 sufficient     quantity of water to dissolve the crystals, after
 which it       was filtered : it then deposited, by evaporation,
 umall prismatic crystals with six planes.
     3d. Fifty grains of melilite coarsely pulverized, and on
 which weak sulphuric acid was poured, were soon com
 pletely dissolved, without heat, except some carbonaceous
  parts and a few grains of quartz accidentally adherent. The
 solution filtered, and then concentrated, coagulated into a
 soft mass, ramified by small crystals in needles, without
 giving any appearance of real crystals of alum, which proves
 that mclilite contains no potash.
     In the decomposition of 100 parts of mclilite in the dry
 way, a great deal of carbonic acid and hydrogen gas, &c.
 was disengaged. — These Mr. Klaproth collected under bells
 tilled with mercury, and prove that the acid of mclilite
 is analogous to vegetable acids ; that it is composed of car
 bon, hydrogen, and oxygen, and consequently decompo
 sable by fire.     The residuum in the retort was black and
.brilliant.      The fragments had lost nothing of their form or
 volume.        They weighed 5 grains. When calcined in the
ppen air, they gradually lost their black colour and their
 carbon: they became yellowish-blue: they weighed 16
 grains.       When dissolved in sulphuric acid they gave, by
 the addition of acetite of potash, crystals of alum.
     A hundred parts of melilite, analyzed in the dry way,
 gave
            3-1
            25                -
                inches in a line of carbonic acid gas
                   ¦       —
                           ¦     of hydrogen gas
            3S grains of acidulous and aromatic water
              2 of aromatic oil
              9 of pure carbon
            16 of alumine, combined with a little silcx.
*v        .                                                       *
                 Decomposition   of Melilite by Water.
     Four hundred grains of melilite boiled for two hours
 with 60 ounces of water were decomposed : the decompo
 sition when filtered to separate the alumine gave, by eva
 poration, crystals in needles, and an acid mass of small balls
 formed of diverging radii proceeding from one center.           It
 remained to be known whether this acid of two radicals
 could belong to any of the known vegetable acids, or whe
 ther it had characteristic properties which ought to make
 it be considered as a particular acid.
     The properties bv which it is distinguished from all the
                                                                  *
 other vegetable acids arc as follows :
     1st. Melitic acid crystallizes into fine needles, or globules,
                                   F 2                      formed

               Extract from tJw third            Volume   of
formed by the union of its needles, or in small hard prisms.
This acid, however, does not seem at first to possess the
property of crystallizing.  It is probable that it gradually
acquires it by the absorption of the oxygen of the atmo
sphere.
   2d.    This acid, when put upon  the tongue, has at fir3t a
sweetish-sour taste, and then leaves a bitter savour.
  3d.     If
          put upon a warm plate of metal it is readily de
composed : it is dissipated in abundant gray fumes which,
however, do not affect the smell. There remains a small
quantity of ashes, which produce no change in red or blue
tincture of turnsole.
    4th. When neutralized by potash it crystallizes into long
prisnis grouped together.
    5th. When saturated by soda it crystallizes into cubes
or triangular plates, sometimes single, and sometimes in
groupes.
    6th. When saturated by ammonia it crystallizes in beau
tiful prisms with six planes, which soon lose their transpa
rency in the air : they have then a silvery-white colour.
    7th. Melitic acid dissolved in lime water, into which a
solution of barytcs or of calcined strontian is poured, drop
by drop, produces a white precipitate ; but which, if mu-
ratic acid be poured into         it,becomes redissolved.
    8th. When poured into           a solution of acetite of barytes
it  produces,
               in    like manner,       white precipitate capable of
                                        a
being    redissolved by    the  addition  of nitric acid.
    otn.  It  produces    no  cloud,   or precipitate, in solution of
muriate of barytes   ;     but some time after very fine crystals
in transparent needles are deposited.
    10th. Solution of nitrate of silver remains clear, and ex
periences no change         by the addition of melitic acid.
    11th. Melitic acid poured into          a  solution of nitrate of
mercury, prepared cither hot or cold, produces in              it
                                                                a very
abundant white precipitate, which           isimmediately redissolved
 by  the addition of    a  new quantity of nitric acid.
    12th. When poured into             solution of nitrate of iron
                                        a                                it
gives a    very abundant precipitate of an isabella colour, ca
pable of being redissolved         bythe addition of muriatic acid.
    13th. Poured into       a  solution of acetite of lead      gives,
                                                               it
in   like manner,                                                  im
                         very abundant precipitate, which
                    a                                               is
mediately redissolved        by the addition of nitric acid.
    14 tli. l'ourcd into    asolution of acetite of copper,    itgives
a  gravish-green precipitate.
    15th. Hut  a      solution of muriate of copper experiences
no change.
                                                               16th.     It

                       lite Analyses     of At. Klaproth.                       64
    16th. It has never yet been possible to eon vert it into
oxalic acid by means ot nitric acid. The only chance which
M. Klaproth remarked was, that its brownish colour be
came a straw-yellow.                                             ,
   The precipitate ot" lime water by this acid immediately
redissolves by the addition ot* nitric acid.                     .
   These first trials, in regard to the affinities of melitic
acid, are sufficient, however, to prove that it is susceptible
of combining with several earths and metallic oxides ; and
that its affinity is stronger than that of the acetic acid and
less than that of the mineral acids.        This acid, composed
of carbon, hydrogen, and oxvgen, which is susceptible of
decomposition by heat like the vegetable acids, participates
then in their nature ; but differs from them by its proper
ties as well as by the proportion of its principles.         This
induced M. Klaproth to consider it as a particular vegetable
acid, to which he has given the name of melitic acid.
Acidum melilithicinn.
    What place w       be now assigned in the methodical clas
                           ill
sification of fossils to that which affords the first instance of
aluminc, combined with         vegetable acid    Melilite belongs
                                  by a
                                                     ?
to the mineral kingdom          its base, and to the vegetable by
the constituent principles of its acid, and          the origin of
                                                              by
its formation amidst beds of coal          but coals being con-
                                                 :
tidered as fossils, though they arise from vegetable remains,
mineralogists will have       right to class mehlite among the
                                 a
fossils with     base of aluminc.
                   a
   The following       the proportion of the principles of which
                           is
it   is   composed     :
                 Melitic acid                                      46
                 Aluminc      -                                    16
                 Water of crystallization                -         38
                                                                   100
          Analysis     of  the muriated Lead Ore     of      Derbyshire.
     The regular crystals of this muriate oflead, already des
cribed      by   Mr. Karsten in his mineralogical
                                           tables, arc formed
of cubes of from four to six lines, with blunted edges the                  ;
decrements on tlie edges produce     great many varieties in
                                                 a
their exterior form. Muriate of lead exposed on charcoal,
at the extremity of the flame of the blow-pipe, immedi
ately fuses into an opake globule of       beautiful orange-
                                                     a
colour, which becomes lemon-yellow, and then white,                             by
cooling    and the surface of the button seems to be slightly
           j
                                         F   3                           striated.

86                 Extract from            the   third Volume of
striated. When the charcoal inflames at the place where the
globule adheres to     the latter breaks in pieces, the mu
                                 it,
riatic acid escapes in white vapours, and the charcoal                                       is
covered with grains of metallic lead.
    M. Klaproth has found in the crystals of muriate of lead
treated     potash in
            by         platine crucible, and
                                   a            nitric acid,            by
           Oxide of lead    -                85-50
                Muriatic         acid      -                            8-50
                Carbonic acid, with              a   little water       6
                                                                    100
  Artificial muriate of lead contains 13 or 14 per cent, of
concrete muriatic acid, while natural muriate' ot lead not                              is
completely saturated which explains why the carbonic acid
                                   ;
may be found there at the same time as muriatic acid.
     jinahjses      of        the Green Phosphate         ofLead        of   Zschopan.
     This   ore          composed of       hexaedral
                                         prismatic crystals, ter
                 by is
minated        planes perpendicular to the axis.           They are
sometimes single, and sometimes formed intogroupes; some
of them are two inches in length. They are of an olive or
green, sometimes inclining to meadow-green, and often
to pale yellow    when pounded, they give
                         ;                          straw-coloured  a
powder.     The   crystals,  when   very pure,     have       smooth           a
surface and     greasy polish
                    a          they  are generally
                                           ;           covered   with
a  stratum of ochre which renders them rugged. The matrix
from which they are extracted        white sulphate of barytes.
                                                  is
The specific gravity of this substance       6-270.        is
    This phosphate of lead, when exposed on charcoal to the
flame of the blow-pipe, fuses into an almost transparent
globule    but
            ;     becomes opake
                         it            cooling, and soon cry
                                                     by
stallizes under the form of polygonal garnet, with brilliant
                                           a
facets on the side which touches the charcoal.             There are
generally found small grains of lead reduced to the metallic
state, but        never entirely reduced without
                  it     is                                 flux.   It        a
participates in this property of crystallizing,        cooling, with    by
all the ores of phosphate of lead hitherto known, as well
as with artificial phosphate of lead.      This observation had
                                 it a by
before been made        Cronstedt.
    To fuse this ore     very strong heat       required for M.is                 ;
 Klaproth extracted     without its having experienced any                                   al
teration except at its edges, which were          little blunted by a
the muffle of     cupelling furnace, in which he had effected
                         a
exceedingly well the separation of gold               but       fused
                                                                    ;              it
completely in      blast-furnace, and crystallized
                          a                                  radii            in             by
                                                                                   cooling,

                 the Analyses    of M. Klaproth.                   87
 cooling, nearly in the same manner as sulphur of which its
 crystals assume also the colour.
     The phosphate of lead of Zschopan reduced by black
 flux, and treated by the nitric and sulphuric acids to obtain
 phosphoric acid, is composed of
            Oxide of lead      »                    78-40
            Phosphoric acid           -       -     18-37
            Muriatic  acid     -                      1-70
           Oxide of iron      -      -       -       0-10
                                                    !)i-57
    That of Hoffsguind,    near Fribourg,     in the Brisgaw, con
 tains
           Oxide of lead      -                     77-10
           Phosphoric acid            -      -      19
           Muriatic acid      -                       ]-54
           Oxide of iron      -      -       -       0-10
                                                    97-74
    The brown   ore of phosphate    of  lead  of Huelgoet in Brit
 tany contains
           Oxide of lead      -                     78-58
           Phosphoric acid           -       -      19*73
           Muriatic acid      -      -     •"-        1-65
                                                    99-96
    The crystals subjected to this analysis were composed of
hexacdral prisms agglutinated together, of the size of a
goose's quill, and half-an-inch in length.           Their specific
gravity, according to M. Klaproth, is 6-600.
    The lemon-coloured ore of phosphate of lead of Wan-
lochhead in Scotland fuses, on coals, into a whitish green
opake globule with some large brilliant facets, or facets the
surface of which is covered with radii that cross each other.
It contains
           Oxide of lead                            80
           Phosphoric    acid        -       -      18
           Muriatic acid      -      -       -       1.62
                                                    99-02
   The yellow colour of this     ore seems to arise mere'v from
                                 F 4                       a ti eater

88                        Analysis of Ambergris.
a greater   oxidation of the lead.    If pulverized, and if a
solution of muriate of tin be poured over       in          it,
                                                    close ves-         a                  <
sel,    loses its yellow colour and becomes white.
       it
                              [To   be   continued.]
X. Analysis         of    Ambergris.       By   Bouillon-Lagrange*.
At     is  now almost generally admitted that ambergris
            is                                                                        is
found in the stomach of the cachelot, called            naturalists    by
Pfiyseter  macrocephalus,  and  that   seems   to
                                                it be the product
of its digestion.
   Dr. Swediaur has proved in his Researches on the Nature
and Origin of Ambergris, that the beaks of the sepia, with
which large pieces of ambergris, both those found on the
coasts or at the surface of the sea, and those taken from the
bellies of these whales, are .mixed, belong to that species to
which Linnseus has given the name of Sepia ociopoda. The
existence of these beaks and of other foreign bodies          am                in
bergris       convincing proof that     has been once in      state
            is
            a                                   it                              a
of softness or liquidity. M. Swediaur says, that the kind of
whale which contains ambergris in its belly           that species   is
from which spermaceti        extracted, which seems to be the
                                  is
Physetcr macrocephalus of Linnaeus, and which feeds chiefly
on the large species of sepia.            in the intestinal canal
                                              It     is
of this whale that the ambergris found to the animal
                                                is         :                          it
is    source of disease
      a                   this matter when
                              :                   issues from the
                                                            it
bag which contains      gradually acquires that solidity which
                             it
.it   is observed    to possess.
    Ambergris       found in the Indijn seas, near the Moluc
                     is
 cas, the Maldives, and Madagascar, and on the coasts of
 China and Japan, and from Iolo to the Manillas.                                     It   is
 often picked up on the coasts of Maragnon, or of Brasil,
 but more commonly on those of Africa towards Cape Blanc,
 the Gulf of Arguin, the Bay of Portendia, and in some
 other islands which extend from that of Mosambique to
 the Red Sea.
    According to the accounts of_several travellers the inha
 bitants of the igles of Sanhallat search for   in    very sin  it        a
 gular maimer.     After storms they proceed along the shore,
 and    there be ambergris on
       if                         they perceive
                                         it          the smell.   it      by
 There are certain birds and other animals on these shores
 which are fond of ambergris and as they discover
                                          ;                at                   it        a
                    • From the Annates <k
                                          Cbimie,         No.   \y,.
                                                                               distance

                         Analysis of Amlcigris.                      89
distance by the smell, they go in search of it in order to
eat it.
    There can he no doubt that ambergris is an animal pro
duction.      Several substances approach very near to it in
smell, such as the excrements of some of the mammalia,
and particularly those or' oxen and pigs. I found that cows'
dung dried in the sun has an odour very analogous to am
bergris, and even to musk ; and hence the name of indige
nous nmsk given in some countries to this substance pre
pared in this manner.
    Ambergris (ambrea grisea) is a light substance which
floats on the water, solid, opakc, of an ash colour, veined
with white and vellowish-brown, slurhtly odoriferous, but
the odour of which develops itself as it grows old, or when
it is mixed with musk or other aromatoua substances, as it
is prepared for perfumes or smelling waters.
    Good ambergris in its natural state may be known if
when scraped with the blade of a knife it adheres to the
knife like wax, if it retains the impression of the nails and
that of the teeth, and            if,
                                 when pricked with     ahot needle,
it  emits a   fat odoriferousjuice.      Though solid, and      in ge
 neral brittle,    it  not sufficiently hard to bear polishing, but
                        is
rubbed with the nail          becomes smooth like hard soap.
                             it
     Geoffroy, Neumann, Grim, and Brow, have classed am
 bergris among the bitumens.           The analysis made of     it    by
 chemists     is not sufficient to determine the nature of this
 substance. Ambergris fuses in the fire, says Geoffroy, into          a
 resin of yellow or gold colour when applied to
          a                              ;                 a  flame   it
 kindles and burns; spirit of wine does not dissolve            it en
 tirely, there remains       a black matter like pitch on which       it
 has no action.      When dissolved          leaves some time after
                                             it
a   white nebulous sediment, which gradually coagulates and
 becomes thicker and thicker; this coaguh/m being dried
 changes into       a brilliant foliated earth, and which       is not
 different from spermaceti.
     In distillation, according to the same chemist, ambergris
 gives first an insipid phlegm, then an acid liquor or spirit,
 and  a  highly odorous yellow oil, with some portion of acid
 and volatile dirtv sail in the last place there remains at
                              :
 the bottom of the retort         brilliant, black, and bituminous
                                    a
 matter.      It    here seen that this analysis, which does not
                   is
 differ from that given             by
                                   all chemists, deserves to be re
 examined in order to give us correct ideas respecting the
 nature of this singular substance.
  I    think  it my dutv to acquaint those who may lie desirous
 of repeating these experiments, to be very careful            in their
              3                                             .    choice

    <J0                  Analysis of Ambergris.
   choice of the ambergris. Several varieties are common in
   commerce, the price of which establishes different species.
   There is no doubt that this substance is fabricated, as cas-
   torium is made in some countnes of Germany.                  Eayen as
   sured me that he saw it made at Frankfort.              This father of
   chemistry found that his memory did not deceive him ; and,
   what is rare among travellers, he told the truth.
        I have examined several kinds of ambergris used in com
   merce. Some of them vary in specific gravity, have a co
   lour more or less dark, with very little odour, and are flexi
  ble; others are of an ash-gray colour, pretty hard : in the
  last place, others are almost stony, are scarcely soluble in
  alcohol, and have no odour.
       The ambergris which I analysed wa3 not purchased.                I
  compared it with that in the cabinet of the Museum of Na
  tural History, and found no difference either in the colour
  or odour.
                          Physical Properties.
      It is of an ash-gray colour, interspersed in the inside
  with some yellow striae ; has a sweet mild odour, and grows
  soft between the fingers.        When reduced to a fine powder
 it acquires a darker colour ; pounded in a glass mortar it
 becomes agglutinated and adheres to the pestle.
      Its taste is dull and almost insipid, and when put between
 the teeth it exhibits the same phenomena as wax.
      Its specific gravity is from 844 to 649              that of water
 being lOOO.
      According to Brisson the specific gravity of ambergris is
 9263. The weight of the cubic inch 4 gros 58 grains ;
 that of the cubic foot (>4 pounds 13 ounces 3 gros 47 grains.
     The specific gravity of blackish ambergris is 7S03.            The
weight       of the cubic inch  4  gros 3  grains ;   that  of the cubic
foot 54 pounds        9 ounces  7  gros 35 grains.
                          Chemical Properties.
      Exp. I. Ambergris, when placed on burning charcoal,
burns, and becomes entirely volatilized : it then leaves an
agreeable odour.
     If this combustion is effected more slowly in a platina
crucible it fuses, emitting the same odour ; that of a fat
body is also distinguished.
     Nothing remains in the crucible but a black greasy spot.
     Fifty   degrees of  heat (Reaumur's thermometer) are suffi
cient to fuse it.      A brown brilliant liquid     is thus obtained.
     At    80 decrees it is volatilized   under the form of white
vapours.
                                                                   Exp.

                       Analysis of Amlergris.                    91
      Exp. II. The odour developed during its volatilization,
having made me suspect the presence of an acid analogous
to that of balsams, an experiment was made to ascertain
it.
      A bit of ambergris was placed in a porcelain capsule co
vered by a bell, in which was suspended a paper tinged with
turnsole.      The apparatus being placed on a sand-bath, the
temperature was raised to the degree necessary to volatilize
the ambergris : the paper speedily assumed a red colour.
Nothing was now necessary but to discover the nature of
this acid ; and with this view Scheele's process for extract-
 ine acid of benjamin was employed.
      The product was examined, and left no doubt in regard
to its analogy.
      Exp. III. The analysis with the retort added nothing to
the knowledge already acquired in regard to the nature of
 ambergris.
      A gentle temperature makesit fuse : in a more elevated one
it is decomposed, and a whitish acid liquor and a light oil
 soluble in part in alcohol, which gives it a yellow colour,
         over into the receiver.     There remains in the retort a
 fiass
    ight and  very voluminous    charcoal.
      Exp. IV. Ambergris floats on water, and does not suffer
 itself to be penetrated by that liquid cold : it acquires nei
  ther odour nor savour. Boiling water produces no alteration
 on it. At that degree the ambergris dissolves and appears
  under the form of a brownish oily liquid : a small quantity
 of a black matter insoluble in alcohol is separated. The
  filtered liquor had neither odour nor colour, and only a slight
 bitter savour.
      It i3 only in the ratio of the temperature, then, that am
 bergris dissolves, since in proportion as it is lowered it is
  found to have the same properties.
       Exp. V. Acids in general have very little action on am
 bergris.     It has not yet been possible by the aid of these
 agents to discover the constituent parts of this compound.
       Weakened sulphuric acid makes it experience no change.
  If   concentrated, it lays bare little of the oxide of carbon.
      The same phenomena arc exhibited by the muriatic and
  oxygenated muriatic acids.
      Nitric acid raised to 18 degrees, and distilled from off"
  that substance, in a pneumatic apparatus, gives for result
  nitrous gas, carbonic acid, and azotic gas.
      The tatter arises, no doubt, from the decomposition of
  some animal matters accidentally mixed with the ambergris,
                                                                  as

92                 Royal Academy of Madrid.
as   may be observed         in the examination of   some fragments
of it.
   There is found in the retort, after the elastic fluids are
extracted, a thick liquid inclining to yellow : when brought
to a soft consistence the matter swells up a little, and when
evaporated to dryness in a porcelain capsule there remained
a dry brittle matter of a golden-yellow colour, brilliant and
transparent, which exhibited characters analogous to resins.
                              [To   be continued.]
     XI.   Proceedings   of Learned and (Economical         Societies.
                  ROVAL ACADEMY OF MADRID.
This    learned body, in its sitting of August 19th, admitted
among the number of its corresponding members John
Baptiste Leonard Durand, author of a voyage to Senegal,
and sent him a diploma.      It transmitted to him also at the
same time the following observations on the solar eclipse,
nude at Tangiers by Ali Beik Abdallah, a young Moor,
educated in Europe, who has already distinguished himself
by his talents, his love for science, and the service be en
deavours to render to it.
     The sunappeared eclipsed above a hill which intersected
the horizon  at 17h 24m 13*.              A
                                   large spot which was situ
ated near the sun's centre emerged from the shadow at 1 8h
28m 25'.    End of the eclipse, exterior contact 19'' I4m 15s.
   The observer employed a small telescope, by Dollond,
which he calls a military one, of a foot focus, the eye-glass
of which he smoked ; the time was given by his chrono
meter, which he compared with the heavens, bv the mean
of 40 altitudes of the sun taken on the lCth and 17 th with
his pocket sextant and a glass horizon.
   The part eclipsed seemed to be about eight digits, which
shows the great influence of parallax.
   He proposes to determine the longitude and latitude, of
which, as yet, he has had only an approximation.
   M. Delalande, who observed this eclipse at Paris, has
deduced from       that the difference of meridians between
                  it,
Tangiers  and Paris    33™ 12' in time, which
                         is                      only 32 se
                                                       is
conds more than       was supposed to be before, but which
                        it
stood in need of this confirmation.
                                                               SOCIETY"

             Society  of National (Economy, Haarlem.           93
         SOCIETY OF NATIONAL 02CONOMY,            HAARLEM.
    This society     has published the  following
                            Prize Questions :
     1. What     species of nettie can be employed in making
 yam?     The memoir must state what country produces it;
 the proper season for gathering, and the manipulations ne
 cessary in preparing it for use.       Twenty-five pounds of the
 rani must be produced with the paper.            The prize is 25
ducats, which will be augmented if 50 pounds be sent in.
     2. Can the acorn be employed for making oil, as a sub
 stitute for coffee, or other purposes of domestic ceconomy ?
 and what are the best methods for doing so ? The prize is
 six ducats.
    3. What is the present state of public and private ceco
 nomy in Holland ?
    4. What is the best method of preventing or curing the
 rot in sheep ? Fifty ducats to the person who shall point
out the cause of the disease, and an effectual method of pre
 vention ; twenty-five ducats to the one who shall point out
a cure.
    The answers to the above questions must be sent to the
 secretary of the society before the 30th of September 1804.
    5. Millet being little cultivated in Holland, and no good
method known for separating it from the chaff, the society
offers a premium of twenty-five ducats to the person who
shall invent a machine by which that can be effected as
completely as in the millet imported from other countries.
The competition for this prize will be open till the 30th of
September 1805.
          ffiCONOMICAL SOCIETY, ST. PETERSBUROH.
    This society    has offered several premiums for encouraging
industry among the peasants and the poor in hospitals ; also
for a good method, suited to the capacity of the Russian
peasant, for the preservation of health, enabling him to
apply remedies, especially from indigenous plants, with
the manner of employing them.            The prize for the latter
is a gold medal of fifty ducats.
                                                       XII. In-

                             [  94    ]
          XII.  Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
       VACCINATION A PREVENTATIVE          OF THE PLAGUE.
 Extract of a Letter from J. de Cakro, M. D. of Vienna,
                 to Dr. C. F. Haug, of Rastadt.
                                              August, 23, 1803.
 What        will excite your admiration, as well as that of the
whole world, is a new discovery made by two physicians,
namely, Dr. Aubon, of Constantinople, and Dr. Lafond,
of Salonica, in Macedonia. The experiments of these two
physicians, who never have had any intercourse, confirm
that the vaccine is a preservative against the plague.       The
proofs of the former are, that of 6,000 persons inoculated
with the vaccine at Constantinople, not one of them was at
tacked by the plague ; that children subjected to the vac
cine inoculation were made to suck mothers attacked by
the plague without any of them being infected ; that an
Italian physician, who devoted himself in Turkey to the
study of the plague, being fully convinced of the property
which the vaccine has of preserving from this malady, took,
every opportunity of coming into contact with persons in
fected by the plague, in an hospital destined for patients*
afflicted with that disease : that in consequence of accurate
researches the vaccine pustules have been found on the teat*
of the cows, and the hands of those who milk them, in
the villages around Constantinople : that'it results from the
account of persons worthy of credit, that in their country
neither the plague nor the small-pox have ever prevailed
epidemically, even when these scourges made the greatest
ravages in the neighbourhood : that when an inhabitant of
these villages has been infected with the plague in distant
countries, and returns with that malady, he has either died
or been cured without the disorder spreading : in the last
place, that the confidence of several classes of men, and
chiefly of the Armenians, in the preventive quality of the
vaccine against the plague, is so great, that a number of
people are inoculated every year with it to preserve them
from this malady        The physicians of Constantinople have
begged me to contribute towards the promulgation of this
new discovery, See.
                          PRUSSIC ACID.
   Dr. Schaub, of Cassel, in    a letter to Mr. Parkinson, has
given   a new process for obtaining this acid in a state of ab
                                                          solute

          Phosphate     of Soda.
                                  — Sulphate of Soda, &c.              95
solute purity.        It consists in pouring upon one part of
Prussian blue half a part of sulphuric acid, diluted with an
equal quantity of water, and subsequent distillation.                The
prussic acid passes over in the alcohol*.            Its odour greatly
resembles the water of the Lauro-cerasus.                It is a deadly
poison to animals.
                         PHOSPHATE OF SODA.
    M.   Funcke, a German apothecary, gives the following
as a more     ceconomical, expeditious, and easy process for
preparing this substance than any in common use :
     Saturate the excess of lime contained in calcined bones
with dilute sulphuric acid, and dissolve the remaining phos
phate of lime in nitric acid. To this solution add a like
quantity of sulphate of soda, and then recover the nitric
acid by distillation.        The phosphate of soda is then to be
 separated   from    the  sulphate of lime by affusion with water
 and crystallization in the usual manner.
                          SULPHATE OF SODA.
     The same chemist has published a new method of pre
 paring sulphate of soda from sulphate of lime.               It consists
 in making into a paste, with a sufficient quantity of water,
 eight parts of burnt gypsum (sulphate of lime), five of clay,
 and five of common salt.            This mixture is burnt in a kiln
 or oven, and then ground to powder, diffused in a sufficient
 quantity of water, which, after being strained and eva
 porated, is suffered to crystallize.
                                  POTASH.
     The   ashes of vegetables in general contain only from
  18   to 20 per cent.; those of buck -wheat, according to
 some experiment* of Vauquclin, about 33 of this alkali.
                               GALVANISM.
      Professor Tromsdorff has announced that metals may be
  deflagrated   by means of the Galvanic fluid, in hydrogen,
  ammonia, nitrogen, nitrous and carbonic acid gases.
                                TITANIUM.
      Professor Lampadius has succeeded in reducing to the
  metallic state, by means of charcoal only, the oxide of
     • VVe have
                  copied this from Mr. Nicholson's valuable Journal, but
 there is some
                inaccuracy in it.  If water only was employed there could
  be no alcohol produced ; if the latter was employed in
                                                            place of water
  then either might pats into the receiver.
                                                                titanium,

  Bo                   Tungsten .-— Stencilling.
 titanium, obtained by decomposing the gallate of that metal
 by potash or soda.           The metallic titanium is of a dark
 copper   colour,   has  much     brilliancy, is brittle, but possesses,
 in small scales, a considerable degree of elasticity : it tar
 nishes on exposure to the air, and is easily oxided by heat,
 which gives it a blueish aspect: it detonates with nitrate of
 potash and is highly infusible. All the dense acids act upon
 it with considerable energy.
                                 TUNGSTEN.
     Richter, the German chemist, has published the follow
 ing method of obtaining tungsten :
     Expose equal parts of tungstic acid
                                                 * and dried blood for
 some time to a red-heat in a          crucible;  put the black powder
 which is formed into a smaller crucible, and expose it again
to a violent heat in a large lire for at least an hour.               The
lesult is tungsten in its metallic state.
                            STENCILLING.
     On this process, which is employed in different manu
 factures, we have received a communication from Mr. T.
 Gill, which we think furnishes a very useful hint, and may
 possibly lead to an extension of the use of stencils :
     " Wishing," says he, " to produce some copies of a
 miniature profile, lately taken by Mr. Hawkins's patent
 method (viz. by a machine, which being traced over the face
 itself, at the same time draws the outlines of the profile on
 a reduced scale), which was cut in thin wove post paper; I
 coated it pretty thick on both sides with the cement No. xvii.
described in the Philosophical Magazine, vol. xiv. p. 122;
which dried instantly, and rendered it perfectly impervious
to oil and water, and sufficiently stiff.           In short, the paper
became a very excellent stencil, with which I was enabled
to multiply the profiles with as much facility as if it had
been a brass impression plate.             I think the above informa
tion may be useful to manufacturers of paper hangings,
cards, floor cloths, and in short to all who employ stencils,
as a method of preparing them, far superior to that in gene
ral use ; which consists in coating them with boiled linseed
oil, as the oil requires much time to become dry, and, 1 be
lieve, would never render the stencil so firm and durable, as
by this new process."
      Or more properly tungstic oxide; tungsten, by some late experiments,
appearing not to be acidifiable.

                                 [   97   ]
 XIII.     Essay on the Franklinian T/ieory of Electricity. By
    Samuel Woods, Esq.                Read before the Askesian So
     ciety in the Session 1802-3.*
  J. he    science  of electricity offers an extensive and interest
 ing   field  of inquiry to the curious and speculative mind         :
 the diligence of observation and experiment has collected
 an almost unlimited variety of facts, which it is often diffi
 cult to refer by any perspicuous classification to a few sim
 ple and general principles ; and notwithstanding the endea
 vours of philosophers well qualified by their situation,
 talents and pursuits, to examine the effects, ascertain the
 properties, and investigate the laws of this singular fluid, it
 is still an arduous task to discover the connecting links
 which unite the numerous phenomena in one luminous and
 consistent system.       Those striking appearances which ar
 rest attention and create astonishment, are perhaps less cal
 culated to convey substantial information than an accurate
,and repeated scrutiny into the minuter effects and operations.
 The recent and surprising discoveries in Galvanic electricity
 may convince us that our knowledge hardly penetrates be
 neath the surface.       We know, indeed, that by rubbing a
 piece   of  glass  or  sealing-wax particular signs and actions
 are produced, which may be communicated to, and in cer
 tain circumstances retained by, other bodies : and we im
 pute these signs and actions to the influence of a peculiar
 fluid, which we denominate electricity.             But we are yet
 unable to conceive the reason or the means by which fric
 tion generates this power, or how its passage is obstructed
 or impeded by some particular substances : vapours, clouds,
 fogs, rain, and even the atmosphere, almost universally
 and uniformly indicate, when examined by delicate instru
 ments, the presence of electricity ; and though it is reason
 able to conclude its agency of great extent and importance
 in our system, we are still ignorant what office is assigned
 to this subtile fluid in the ceconomy of nature.
     It has justly been observed that the effects of electricity
 are in many instances strictly mechanical, producing local
  motion like gravitation, and therefore a proper subject of
  mathematical investigation. The establishment of electrical
  science on such principles has been attempted by several :
  in the opinion of the ingenious editor of the Supplement
           • Copied by permission from the records of the society.
     Vol. XVII. No.       66.          G                            t«
        November     1803.

OS                  On the Frankliuian Theory
to the Encyclopaedia Britannica, Mr. vEpinus and his for*
lowers, Messrs. Cavendish and Coulomb, have framed a
perspicuous and demonstrable theory.' The work of iEpi-
nus 1 have not yet been able to procure ; but, perhaps, at
some future period I may be tempted to offer to the society
a general view of the iEpinian theory, combined with the
illustrations of his disciples.
    I have undertaken on the present occasion to exhibit a
succinct but, 1 trust, an intelligible view of that theory,
respecting the operations of the electric fluid, which
ascribes all electrical phenomena to the passage of this fluid
from one body to another, disturbing from various causes
that equilibrium which it is the constant tendencv of nature
to preserve, producing an increase or diminution of quan
tity, and a consequent effort to recover its original state :
a theory which, though not originating with Dr. Franklin,
owes its present adoption and celebrity to the discoveries
and illustrations of that ingenious electrician.    The redun
dancy    and  deficiency of the  electric fluid form the corner
stone of Dr. Franklin's theory ; and the greatest part of
what has been since added is a more distinct explanation of
the mode of action by which such redundancy and deli*-
ciencv produce the observed phenomena, I shall waive for
the present any examination into the nature of electricity
in the abstract, and assume its materiality as a subtile and
most commonly an invisible fluid, which, in certain cases,
becomes obvious to our senses ; sometimes amusing us by
the singularity of its action ; at other times, by its stupen
dous effects, evincing itself one of the most powerful agents
in nature.
    In order to place the advantages and defects of this theory
in the most perspicuous point of view, I shall endeavour
to arrange the subject under a few general heads or propo
 sitions; by w hich means we shall be enabled to examine
with more facility the dependence and connection of thesq
proposilions with each other, and the degree of proof by
which they are individually and unitedly supported : but,
before we enter more particularly upon this examination it
will be proper to premise a few observations respecting the.
terms in common use.
    The term electricity is used too often in a vague and in*
definite sense, sometimes for the fluid or cause of action,
and at others for its perceptible effects : there is no sing]©
word yet introduced which bears the same relation to elec»
Vricily as caloric to heat j and it appears, at present, most
            4                                            phile*

                                                '
                           of Electricity,                         98
  philosophical to apply the electric fluid as the cause or
  power, and electricity to the effect.
     Electricity is found to be of two kinds : one produced
  by the excitation of glass, and formerly called vitreous : the
  other by the excitation of resijj, and called resinous :—
  whether we impute these different ph&nomcna to tlieacfJon
  of one or of two fluids, it is convenient to adopt some terms,
  which shall distinguish these different states, if of one
 fluid ; or the different fluids if two : as a mean of such
  distinction, the terms positive and negative may be safely
  acquiesced in by all parties, without any precise definition
  of the sense in which they ought to be received. The ad?
  hercnts of Dr. Franklin consider positive as denoting re
 dundancy, —and negative, deficiency.
     When electrical appearances, viz, the attraction of light
 bodies Qr sparks, are induced by friction upon any body,
 fuch body is said to be excited.
     Electricity may be produced four ways :— 1. Friction ; 2.
  Heating and pooling, as is particularly remarkable in the
 tourmalin ; 3. Melting, or pouring one melted substance
  into another ; 4. Evaporation : perhaps all these modes may
 be justly deemed mechanical, and resolve themselves into
  friction, When electricity is communicated from an excited
 electric to another bodv, that body is said to be electrified.
 1 shall first state the series of propositions which I conceive
 comprises |:he most prominent anc} leadmg features of the
 Franklinian theory ; and shall then consider them sepa
 rately, adverting to the proofs by which they are supported.
     Prop. 1. That the phenomena of electricity arc impu
 table to the operations of one fluid, peculiar        in. its nature
 and properties     jgenerally invisible ;   extremely subtile and
 (elastic
       ;    universally and plentifully diffused through the at
 mosphere and other terrestrial substances,
     I'rnp.2,    That the particles of which thjs fluid      is com
 posed    have  astrong attraction  to other  matter,  and   a strong
 j-epulsion between themselves.
     Prop. 3. That this fluid, pursuant to the general law oi
 hydrostatics, will, in   a  state of re;;t, be uniformly diffused
jn   proporfion to the capacity of bodies, and in this state oi
 uniform distribution will produce no effect cognizable            b>
 pur senses ;   but that this state of equilibrium    i» frequently,
.and may easily be, disturbed     by  natural or artificial causes.
     Prop. 4. That this fluid moves with various degrees of
 facility through the pores of different kinds of matter in
a   certain class of bodies which are capable of transmitting
 thjs fluid with facility, and for that reason called conduc
                                ts   2                           tors,

100                      On the Franklhiian Theory
tors, such as metals, water, 8tc, it moves without any per*
ceivable obstruction; but that in another class denominated
  electrics, such as glass, sealing-wax, &c. which on friction
 produce signs of electricity, it either moves with extreme
 difficulty, or is entirely immoveable.
     Prop. 5. That though electrics are subdivided into two
 classes : — 1. Glass, &c. which on excitation have a general
 taidency to emit the electric fluid by disturbing the equili
 brium, collecting           it,  means of the rubber, from the
                                   by
 surrounding      bpdies  arid   conveying      to some other body,
                                                  it
 producing     the negative   or  minus   state in those bodies, and
 the positive or plus state in the body to which                so con
                                                                  it      is
 veyed :    2.  Resin,   sulphur,   8cc.  whose  effects  are  precisely
 the reverse of the other class, having          general tendency on
                                                   a
 excitation to receive the electric fluid from any body with
 which     it   isimmediately connected, producing             negative
                                                                      a
 state in that body, and,           by
                                  transmission through the rubber,
a   positive state in the surrounding bodies — yet that this af
 fords no presumption of the existence of more than single                 a
 fluid.
     Prop. 6. That any excited electric              capable of com
                                                       is
 municating,         by
                     contact with other bodies, an electricity
                                                                               in si
 milar to its own      and by proximity without contact, of
                         ;
 ducing an opposite state of electricity without losing any
 part of its own possessions.
    Prop. 7. That the two different states of positive and
negative electricity may be easily and universally distin
guished from each other                 by
                                    certain constant and invariable
indications.
    Prop. 8. That to electrify body, the natural or propor
                                             a
tionate quantity of this fluid must either be augmented or
lessened in that body, and that the positive state consists in
an accumulation or excess of electric fluid            and the nega
                                                            ;
tive state in       diminution or deficiency of natural quan-
                     a
tity.
    Let us now proceed to examine separately the different
assertions comprehended in the above propositions.
    The first proposition comprises three positions respecting
the phcenomena of electricity, which are not immediately
obvious that they are imputable to one fluid, elastic, and
           :
universally diffused. Besides the want of simplicity which
characterizes the hypothesis of two fluids,             does not ap
                                                            it
pear to me that any advantage            obtained bv
                                             is                 it,
                                                           or that the
most perplexing facts are more satisfactorily explained.
Two fluids existing          chemical combination could not so
                             in
family be separated          by
                            causes strictly mechanical        the mere:
                                                                               act

                                 of Electricity.                               10 1
act   of breaking a         stick of sealing-wax will produce the two
contrary electricities in the two contiguous extremities : if
two different substances be rubbed together when insulated,
unless the conducting powers of these substances be pre
cisely similar, they will exhibit opposite signs of electricity:
the mere contact between two bodies in different states pro
duces an apparent equilibrium, and each ceases to be cha
racterized by any peculiar properties. — Another circum
stance which renders the theory of two fluids improbable
 is, that the quality produced depends not only on the na
ture of the electric, but on that of the rubber. Those
electrics which with some rubbers produce positive, with
others produce negative electricity         and almost every elec
                                                   ;
tric may be made to produce, at pleasure, either positive or
negative electricity             by
                             the adaptation of proper rubbers.
The visible electric atmosphere may be adduced, as another
proof, in favour of the homogeneity of the electric fluid.
If ball, at the termination of brass rod whose upper
   a                                               a
end    isconnected with the prime conductor, be inserted in
an exhausted receiver at        sufficient distance from another
                                      a
ball to prevent       spark
                       a      from    passing between them, the
upper    ball  will have     lucid
                                 a  atmosphere extending itself
towards the lower ball, while the latter            destitute of any
                                                           is
such appearance.       If the upper ball be kept negatively elec
trified     by
             connecting     with the rubber instead of the prime
                                 it
conductor, the effects will be reversed, and the lower ball
distinguished          bylucid atmosphere
                            a                    thus we have an
                                                       :
ocular demonstration of the unity of the fluid for,             ;there    if
were two fluids, both should have atmospheres             under these
                                                                :
various considerations think wc may be justified
                                I                                    in
                                                             ascribing
all electrical appearances to the action of         single fluid.
                                                            a
    With respect to the elasticity of this fluid, much doubt    I
whether      it  susceptible of proof as, however, its elasti
                  is                               :
city   is inferred from its repulsive property,            will come
                                                                it
under our notice in the next proposition.
   The universal diffusion of this fluid may he presumed
from our experience        no place has yet been found where,
                             :
bv the usual means of excitation, electricity cannot be ob
tained  ;  and no reason can be assigned for any partial or
local confinement when moisture and other conductors are
at hand to convey         over the whole earth,
                            it                            will on the
                                                                It
present occasion be superfluous to examine the identity
of lightning and electricity           will be sufficient to observe
                                          :   it
that,       the proper management of the electrical kite,
            by                                                                  it
piay at all times be collected from the atmosphere.
                                          C    3                               The

 ios                 On the pranklbi'ian Theiity
    The second proposition contains two positions' : the £1-
 traction of this fluid to other matter, and the repulsive ac
 tion between its particles. That excited electrics will in
 fluence light bodies at a considerable distance, by attracting
 such towards them, is a fact too common to be controverted t
 this propertv of attraction docs not appear to be the result
 of any affinity between the electric fluid and matter in ge
 neral, but to proceed from its teitdencv to equilibrium, and
 its disposition or power to make use of other substances a&'
 common carriers to restore it ; for light substances insulated
 canndt att in this capacity, and will not be attracted by the
fconductor.
    The repulsive action of the particles of the electric fluid
 between thetfisclvcs is a question involved in considerable
 difficulty t the experiments in an exhausted receiver do not
 indicate Any ai'ialogv to air of other elastic fluids ; for, in
 stead t>f Spreading wider and evinting its elasticity in pro
 portion as the resistance is diminished, the fluid passes in
 an uninterrupted stream.       There are, howlvcrj Other cir
cumstances which favour a repulsive quality.         Thus, light
bodies after they become saturated are driven off : if a con
ductor be brought near an excited cylinder, yet too distant
to receive a spark, and an index be placed at each end and
in the middle-, the near end will be found negative, the re
mote end positive, and the middle neuter, — proving that a,
portion of electric matter has been driven off, by the actiort
of the excited cylinder, from the nearer to the remoter end;
and if a conducting body be presented to the remoter end
a spark maybe obtained, and on removing the cylinder the
Whole conductor will lie found in a minus or negative state :
 this repulsive quality is, too, much more subtile than the
fluid, and can act like gravitation, through substances which
 the fluid itself is unable to penetrate.
    The repulsion between two pith balls negatively electrified
has received many nivSterious solutions, none of which, as
far as I am acquainted, arc at all satisfactory. Without en
tering into any obscure inquiry about repulsive qualities^
may we not refer the divergence of two pith balls, both in
cases of positive and negative electricity, to one simple and
general princ iple Of attraction ? When two pith balls are
artilicially surcharged with the electric fluid, its endeavour
to escape, or its attraction to the surrdundinsr particles flout
ing in the atniosphere, would impel the bails to expose the
utmost extent of their surface to discharge the superfluous
quantity ; and as the moU contiguous particles become sa
                                                         turated^

                                   "of     Electricity*                      103
 <U+2666>uratcc!   ,the balls will diverge, to find fresh "particles capable
  -of relieving them, in exact proportion to the degree of .their
  ¦charge.    The same reasoning in an inverted order applies
  to the negative divergency the particles immediately con
                                            :
   tiguous are deprived of their natural share of the electric
   fluid to restore the equilibrium           and in proportion as these
                                                 ;
   are insufficient to supply the demand, the balls will diverge
   to obtain    itfrom the next and succeeding ranges of parti
  cles.   The air       probably
                         is             very good electric
                                            a                  ;  and as no
  actual and continuous communication subsists between the
  heterogeneous       conducting particles floating in the atmo
  sphere, the transmission of the electric fluid to and from
  the barlrsi, by    a conveyance between such conducting but
  insulated substances, must be too slow and gradual to pre
  vent the divergency alluded to.             This hypothesis seems          (I
  mean to myself) both simple and probable,:                   I   have en~
  deavoured to illustrate             figure the detail of this diver
                                      by a
gency.
      Let A,B, (fig. 1-. Plate III.) represent two pith balls sus
  pended from        apoint       C  the threads AFC, BGC, and let
                                       by
  the semicircles concentric to each represent particles floating
 im the atmosphere         the mutual attraction between these par
                              :
 ticles and the electric fluid contained in the balls A,B, when
 [positively electrified-, will draw the ball A from the ball                B
towards     a   in the line AD.; and, when               particles are satu
                                                           a
  rated, to b.,x>id, e,f,g>lh successively in the ratio of the
•charge till the redundant quantity                discharged, or, as may
                                                     is
 be supposed the common case, till the powers of attraction
 and gravitation are balanced, and the balls rest in equilibrio.
  In the same manner and upon the same principles                       will
                                                                        B
 recede to      P, and both balls will cease to recede whenever
 their gravity balances the attractive power between the fluid
 and the atmosphere.:             the same manner, in the case of
                                  in
Tieeative    electricity   both   balls  reqxii-re an additional portion,
 and, unable to obtain sufficient quantity from a, traverse
                                  a                                i,
successively to             till the equilibrium of the fluid            re
                                                                        is
stored or
       ,         a balance produced between the attractive and
gravitating powers.
     The third proposition respects the inaction of the elec-
'tric fluid in -a state of uniform diffusion, and the facility
with which Ks natural equilibrium                   destroyed. The first
                                                      is
¦position        supported
                is                 the -general analogy of fluids
                                  by                                    ; all
of which have           tendency to diffuse themselves in confor
                         a
mity to some general laws, and at certain period become
                                                      a
Stationary, producing no cognizable effects.                      We have
•cvary   reason    to believe   that  the  electric   fluid,  as well as cri-
                                            G   4                       lone.

10*                On the "Frankl'mian Theory
loric, is alwavs    present in greater or smaller quantities in
the composition of bodies, and we have a right to conclude
that when its existence is not manifested dv its action it
must be in a comparative state, at least, of rest and uni
form diffusion, since otherwise its passage would be indi
cated by external signs or sensations.
    The facility with which the equilibrium is destroyed is
verv striking : the fracture of sealing-wax, the fall of me
tallic powders, the mere operation of pressure,, are suffi
cient for this purpose. Mr. ^Epinus pressed two plates of
glass close together : — when separated and insulated, each
acquired a strong electricity, one positive, the other nega-.
tive; and upon reunion, the electricity of both disappeared:
it is obvious that these modes are inferior sorts of excita
tion; but it is difficult, if not impossible, to offer any so
lution how excitation produces these effects : the means
seem to point out a cause merely mechanical, but the pre
 sence of oxygen for some reason seems from experiment
to be requisite for their production.      It is remarkable that
heat destroys the power of excitation, and dry cold aug
ments it.
    The fourth proposition is a very important one, and upon
which a large proportion of electrical science depends — I
mean the distinction between conductors and electrics — in
which it is assumed, that in conducting substances the elec
 tric fluid moves wit iiout obstruction, ; and in electrics has
 a very slow and difficult, if anv, passage.    When we speak
 hypothetical!}" of conductors and electrics, we suppose them
to be perfect in their kind, hut practically we are ignorant
 of any such perfection. In metals which approach the
 nearest to excellence, as conducting substances,       there is
 often a very obvious resistance to the passage of the fluid,
 which is particularly remarkable in the destruction of small
 wires by the charge of a battery, and the heating of their
 substance even to redness and fusion; though the'uiost ac
 curate experiments have been hitherto insufficient to detect
 any delay of motion hy such resistance, or to perceive the
 lapse of any the least time during its passage for several
 miles.    It has been much controverted whether the fluid is
 conveyed along the surface or through the substance of con
 ductors ; but it does ndt appear to be a point of much con
 sequence, or which at all affects the consistency of the the
 ory.    If a wire be coated with some electric substance,
 such as w ax, resin, &c. it will be found to conduct a charge
 with as much facility as before ; and hence it is inferred
 that the fluid must piss through the substance of the wire i
                                                            this
     *

                             of Electricity.                                 lOi
this proof can hardly       be deemed conclusive, since it             at   is,
least, doubtful whether the wire and its coating ought to be
considered as in actual contact and      ;          not so,
                                                   if          fluid so
                                                                    a
extremely     subtile might easily pass      between     them.     That
the fluid may be forced through the substance of wire                             is
more susceptible of proof from the instances of fusion                            j
but that its tendency is superficial may be inferred from th«
 superior strength of sparks derived from conductors of large
 surface, extended in length in preference to breadth, when
 compared with solid conductors — in short,
                                         :              it  found that
                                                            is is
 the prime conductor of an electrical machine               equally,              if
 not more, effectual when hollow than when solid. In
 some experiments made         by Dr. Priestley, the excoriation of
 metallic chains resulting from          strong discharge also de
                                         a
 notes some determination towards the surface.
     If perfect electric were in our possession, this hypo
       a
 thesis requires us toconceiveof as absolutely impermeable
                                         it
 to the electric fluid but as the qualities of conducting and
                        :
 non-conducting substances coalesce sometimes to very ex            a
 traordinary degree, even in glass, which we consider the best
 electric — must state that mean
           I                    I             by
                                               impermeability, that
 power    of  preventing   the escape  of  the  fluid which         is
                                                                  pecu
 liar to electrics, which power         ascribed to the great diffi
                                        is
 culty experienced      by  the electric fluid in obtaining admis
 sion into the pores of such bodies, and the extreme slow
 ness of its progressive motion over their surface or through
 their substance. This power of confining the fluid              proved
                                                                    is
 by   the charge of   a   Leyden phial,           by
                                                 the well-known in
  stances of insulation, and        bythe durability of electrical
  properties. Mr. Henley (Phil. Trans, vpl. lxvii.) mentions
a   small bottle which retained its electricity for seventy day*
  after charging, and remained during that time in an open
  cupboard he had
            :          a  cylinder variable in the duration of its
  electricity
            :   once, after excitation,       itshowed strong signs
  of electricity for thirty-three days means were repeatedly
                                              :
  and successfully resorted to, to remove these appearances;
  but after a    short pause they constantly returned without
  fresh excitation, alternately became stronger and weaker,
  vanished and returned without any visible cause                he ob
                                                                    :
  served that the electricity was generally weak with             fire in
                                                                        a
  the room, or the door open        during
                                    ;          northerly wind vigo
                                                  a
  rous — the cylinder did not uniformly retain this power
      :                                                                           j
it   would often lose all signs of electricity in 12 hours after
  excitation ;   at other times   itwould remain        fortnight.
                                                        a
     The different results of communicating electricity to con
  ductors, or electrics, afford another proof of the difficult
                                                                        passage

  ttM5                    the   Prankltnian TlwOhj
    {passage the last-merftioned bodies afford to this fluid 1 ril
   the first case, it finds an easy passage to any conducting
   Substance presented at a convenient distance, and becomes
   immediately discharged ; but in the latter case, it acquires
   fcny electricity with considerable difficulty, and, in order to
   induce      it,must be touched several times and in different
   parts      byan electrified body. A curious experiment of pro
   fessor Lichtenberg,         of Gottingen, deserves to be cited
   upon this occasion (Cavallo, 72)           he first excited an elec
                                              :
   tric plate* upon which he placed some metallic body of                            a
   convenient shape) and to this he communicated an electri
   city contrary to the one excited then removing the metallic
                                         :.
   body   by   means cif an electric, he shook some finely pow-»
   dcred resin Over the electric plate* which fell over those
   parts only which had been       in.  contact with the metallic bodv>
   forming radiated appearances. This description accords with
 a   plate excited negatively, and       a  body positively electrified            :
  but    if  the electricities are changed, the circumstances will
  be reversed also, and the powdered resin instead of seeking
  ihose parts touched         by   tlie metallic body will obviously
  Avoid them. —Al first sight, no, reason appeared for this
 variation, since both electricities attract an unelectrified
 body; but, upon more .accurate examination* Mr. Cavalla
  found that the mere action of falling produced               adegree of
  excitation in the powdered resin* which of course became
  liegativclv electrified, and could in that State be attracted
  only    by  the contrary electricity. Thus, in the first instance*
  where the plate was negatively electrified and the parts in
 contact with the metal positive* the powder also in nega          a
 tive state attached itself to the positive — in the latter in
                                                      :
 stance, the plate being positive, and the parts in contact
 Aegative, the powder also negative would attach itself to
 the plate, and avoid those parts endued with an electricity
 similar to its Awn.
     Thus far the path we have trodden does not seem encum*
 bercd with any serious difficulties, but the observed phe
 nomena require an addition to this hypothesis which                 not
                                                                        is is is
 very easily explicable   :     in charging     Leyden phial
                                                  a                itob-1
 vious, from various experiments^ that while one side                 re*
 eelving      the  other is    emitting^    Let     phial
                                                      a    be insulated,
 and the knob, of    a      second phial placed at       short distance
                                                          a
from     its  external coating;     every spark  froin the   prime con
ductor to the knob of the first phial will be followed rcgu*
larly    by  another spark from its outside coating to the knob
tff   the  second   phial, having to the senses all the appearancft
%f a    free passage through the glass           but
                                                  :       if
                                                          there were a
                                                                             tire*

                           •of Electricity.                   Oft
ifrec passage 'there could be rio chafge, and on the contrary,
'both phials are found charged ; and upon this principle a.
hattery is easily constructed : hence it becomes necessary to
 assume that electrics contain a large and equal quantity of
 the electric fluid at all times ; that no real accumulation of
 'quantity can take place-; but that by affording an oppor
 tunity to one side for the escape of this fhrkl, it is possible
 to transfer an equal quantity to the other, while the defi
 ciency is balanced by -an occult principle of repulsion.
     ft is certainly very difficult to imagine the existence of a
  substance capable of yielding a large supply of a peculiar
  fluid, «nd into which an additional quantity may be poured
  on one side while it is abstracted from the other, when,
  at the game time, it refnses a passage to this fluid through
  its pore's : this, however, is presumed to be the case in elec
  tricity. Dr. Franklin once imagined that, in the process
  of cooling, the middle of a glass plate or jar might become
  condensed, and its particles so much concentrated, that,
  while it admitted a circulation of electric fluid on its sur
  face, it refused it through its substance. Dr. Franklin als
  usual rcdnced his conjecture to experiment, by grinding *
  thick gla?* plate away beyond the middle, and found that it
  received a charge with as much facility as before, and im
  mediately acknowledged the fallacy of this opinion,            i
   should feel exceedingly gratified to afford the society some
  light upon this curious circumstance; but as my own con
  ceptions are -involved in profound obscurity, it would he a
  vain and fruitless attempt to offer a fanciful solution un-
  Bupported hv experiment or by probability.
      The division Between the two spec ies of electrics is so
  fully detailed in the body of the fifth proposition, that it
   will be unnecessary to support it by any other consideration
  than an appeal to facts which are generally known.          The
  'construction of Mr. Nairnc's machine is an ingenious ex
   emplification of its truth ; but with respect to the reason
   which determines these bodies in one instance to receive
   from, and in -other circumstances to yield to, the rubber a
   supply of electric fluids we pretend not to assign any.    We
   have examined in the first proposition        the presumption
   which these phsersomcna afford 'of the existence of two fluids,
   and endeavoured to show that such presumption was over
   thrown by the possibility of producing either negative or
  positive electricity by the adaptation of proper rubbers. Tfee
  tollowins; table of excitation is extracted from Encyclopaedia
  <f}riktmui>*.
                                                           TAJJLS

108                         On the Tiranklinian Theory
                                TABLE   OF EXCITATION.
  Etet trie a!   Substances.                   Rubier.                Quality.
  Back of a cat                   Every substance             -   -   pos.
  Glass — smooth                  Ditto        -                      pos.
          rough                   Silk, sulphur, or metals    -       pos.
          ditto                   Woollens, paper, wax, hand          neg.
  Tourmalin                 -     Amber or air blown upon it          pos,
  Ditto     t                     Hand       -                        neg.
  Hareskin              -         Metals, silk, leather, hand -       pos.
  Ditto     -                     Fine furs -       -     -   -       neg.
  Silk —black               -     Sealing-wax      -                  pos.
                                  Skins, metals, hand     -       -   neg.
            white           -     Black silk or cloth, metals     -   pos.
                                  Paper, skins, hand       -      -    neg.
  Sealing-wax                     Metals      -           pos.
                                  Skins, hand, woollens      -
                                                          neg.    -
    Baked wood         Silk                               pos.    i
                       Flannel     -                      neg.
    The sixth proposition comprises another material source
of electrical knowledge. It states, in the first place, that
an excited electric is capable of communicating, by contact
or by such proximity as shall permit the free passage of the.
electric fluid through the air, an electricity producing upon
other bodies precisely the same effects as such excited elec
tric. From this principle is derived the utility of what is
called the prime conductor of an electrical machine,         This
conductor receives, and retains by its insulation, the electric
fluid from the excited cylinder, which by this means we
have the advantage of obtaining in a more powerful and
concentrated state, since by its facility of transmission over
the whole surface of such conductor the quantity collected
from its various points, on presenting to it another con
ducting substance, passes oft in a single spark, not in mi
nute portions as it was received.        This proposition states
in the second place, that an excited electric, whose position
is such with respect to another body that no spark or other
          of the fluid can take place, will induce upon that
  )ody an opposite state of electricity.
(passage                                    If an excited t*ibe be
brought near any substance communicating with the ground
 (but prepared for insulation), this substance when insulated
will be found to indicate the negative state of electricity :
if,  on the contrary, an excited stick of sealing-wax be pre
sented, the positive state will he induced.         This circnin-:
 stance appears to be owing to the repulsive qualities imputed
 to the electric fluid, so often noticed in the course of our
 inquiry the fluid
          :              the excited tube
                                 in             supposed to repel
                                                         is
                                                         quantity a

                                       */*   Electricity.                        10&
    ¦% quantity of the fluid residing in the substance to which                   it
    is  presented, and to drive         on into the earth, in the same
                                             it
    manner as the fluid in an insulated conductor                       is
                                                                   repelled
    from the nearest to the remotest end                          by
                                                          the action of            a
    machine, as we have attempted to prove under the second
    proposition       :in this situation the substance mentioned will
    have less than its natural share, and of course indicate ne
    gative electricity.        If we reverse the picture, the excited
    wax,     by its opposite qualities, enables the substance to re
    ceive from the earth an additional quantity, which under
    insulation appears in the form of positive electricity.
        The seventh proposition assumes an universal and uniform
    distinction between the two states of electricity.               If no
    means are discoverable by which these states can be ascer
    tained,      it   sufficiently obvious that all reasoning respect
                      is
    ing their particular situations and circumstances must be
    vague and nugatory           the certainty and facility of this
                                   :                                              di
    stinction         an essential prop to the whole theory
                      is                                              let us ;
     therefore examine evidence.           The proofs of this distinction
     are referable to two classes one derived from the appearances
                                             :
     of electric light the other from the phenomena of attraction
                           ;
     and repulsion.         If point be presented to the insulated
                                   a
     rubber of machine, which
                     a                                by
                                             Proposition 5. receives the
     fluid from such point,            diverging luminous stream will
                                         a
     become apparent, which resembles              pencil of rays centring
                                                              a
     at the point, and darting through the air towards the rubber
     with crackling noise, conformably to the expectations we
             a
     should form of the emission of fluid resisted equally in its
                                                         a
     motion       by the surrounding atmosphere: but             the needle
                                                                       if
     be transferred in contact with the rubber, its point out
     wards, which          byProposition 5. then becomes the recipient
     instead of emitting the electric fluid, the appearance will
     be changed when the fluid
                       :                      collected from the circum
                                                      is is
     jacent   air  towards      point,
                                   a        natural
                                                 it  to conceive,    slowly it
      and invisibly percolating from all parts in an equal propor
      tion, till approaches sufficiently near to break through the
                  it
      intermediate space and as this space will be equal on every
                                   ;
.     side, the negative electricity will become visible in the form
     of 6teady, luminous globule on the point, accompanied
         a
      with little noise and this
                               :            consonant with experience.
                                                  is
      The different effects of the two electricities may be advan
      tageously observed by receiving the stream upon the flaf
      side of piece of paper
                 a                     :strong plus stream forms beau
                                             a                               a
      tiful star about four inches in diameter, consisting of very
      distinct radii not ramified the minus stream forms no star,
                                             ;
      while manv pointed brushes centre towards the paper (Ca-
                                                                      yallo).

  1 to               On the FranhRnia* Tfoory-
 vallo).    The  appearances     in an exhausted receiver, men-,
ticmed under Proposition      1.   may be adduced as additional
 proofs.    Mr. Cavallo mentions a curious though delicate
experiment as a further corroboration.          After moistening
the outside of a small phial he charged it at the prime con
ductor, and while the machine is acting a beautiful brush
becomes visible, turning downwards towards the outside
 coating : if the outside be charged positive, the brush will:
 appear directing its course inwards.       The variation in the
.Sensations  of receiving  a spark affords another  collateral tes
 timony to these distinctions, the negative sparks being much
 more pungent than the positive. The repulsion of two pith
balls, or gold leaf, connected with the known property pi"
Certain substances to produce on excitation the same elec
trical quality, affords, another and a more delicate and useful
means of detecting minuter portions.           If an electrometer
be brought into contact with any electrified body, the balls
 or leaf will immediately separate ; but we wish to ascertain
 with which electricity : upon exciting a piece of sealing-
wax and presenting it to the instrument, its divergency will
cither increase or diminish : if it increases, it may be con
cluded similar to that of the excited substance ; if it con
verges, the contrary.       If you are desirous to obtain still
more accuracy of examination to determine the quality,
electrify two similar electrometers, one with some excited
bodv, the other with the body yo\\ wish to examine, till
the balls indicate equal degrees of divergency : then bring
together the two electrometers : if they repel, their electri
city may be deemed similar ; if they attract, opposite,
     The concurrence therefore of these two modes of exa
 mination by electric light and electric attraction and repul+
fsion, if uniform and invariable, as they are asserted to be,
.affords a satisfactory criterion of the quality.
     Wc are now arrived at the eighth and last proposition,
which states in what the qualities of positive and negative
 electricity consist, viz. in accumulation and deficiency,       \\
}ias been objected, and I think with some degree of justice,
{.hat this position is
                        wholly hypothetical ; that no direct and
 unequivocal proof can be adduced ; and that the arguments
.commonly urged in its support are included in what logi
 cians denominate a vicious circle.        Thus it is said a body
 positively  electrified will  attract another   body negatively
 electrified, because the one is redundant, the other is defi?
 ci^nt. i But how is this known ? They attract each other,
.Aftaiji) in charging a phial, there is as constant a stream of
^e"cti\c-iluid from the outside coating as from the qopductor
                                                                 IS

                            of Electricity.                      ill
-*©   the inside ; whence it follows, that while the outside has
  too little,  the inside has too much. Why so ? Because the
  glass   is  impermeable.    How is that proved ? Because in         .
  the experiment above recited the fluid is accumulated on
  one side, while it is abstracted on the other. It is evident
  that under this representation every argument returns into
 itself, and is merely a play upon terms. I shall however
 endeavour to show that this statement is neither perfectly
  candid nor correct, and that the opinion alluded to is sup
  ported by more probability than these objectors are willing
  to admit.
       In many instances we can form conclusions only from
  the effects. If two basons separated by a mound were filled
  with water, the pressure, on all sides being equalj the mound
  would be likely to maintain its situation.         If we suppose
   one full and the other empty, with a slight communication
   between them, the effort to restore the level would endanger
   the safety of the mound ; and if such mound were destroyed,
   we should instantly conclude that it was occasioned by an
   accumulation of water on one side and a deficiency on the
   other. May we not extend the analogy to the plectric fluid?
   It becomes visible only by the air's resistance to its passage t
   and if its effects are similar to those of water, may wc not
   impute it to the same cause ? By the impervious nature of
   those substances called electrics we are enabled to produce
   a change, which by effects similar to those above alluded to
   induces the conclusion, that they are occasioned by an ac-
   cumulation of the fluid on one side, and its subsequent ef
   forts to restore an equilibrium.       If the fluid as it entered
   on one side passed through to the other, no change could
   be effected in the glass { if the glass plate be too thin, and
   the charge too high, the fluid will force a passage, leaving
   a small hole or bur in the glass, sometimes cracking the
   phial all roupd, and in either case incapacitating it from
   receiving another charge. It is singular, in the use of resin
   as a cement to unite the coating and the glass, the phial
   will not receive the least charge without forcing such a pas
   sage.
        The easy Folution of the phaenomena of the Leyden phial
    on the Franklinjan hypothesis has materially contributed to
    jts reputation.     Dr. Franklin proved experimentally that
    when a phial is charged, one side has lost exactly what the
    Other has acquired : taking a charged phial, he observed, that
    when he afforded the fluid on the positive side an oppor
    tunity to escape, the other side became disposed to receive,
   «»d wpuld attract any light body : by insulating his rubber
                                                                   he

 112       On the Fianklinian Theory        of Electricity.
he found that the phial would not receive a charge, because
no fluid could be collected j and by insulating the phial he
found the same result, because no opportunity of escape
was aftbrded to the fluid on the outside ; but by forming a
  communication between the inside and oulside coatings the'
  phial was charged with ease : in this case it appeared evi
 dent that the fluid residing in the outside had been trans
 ferred by the action of the machine to the inside : thus it
 appears that positive and negative
                                         electricity are insepara
 ble, have a constant tendency to produce and preserve each
 other, and the increase or decrease of power on cither sur-
 face of a plate of glass must be regulated by the increase or
 decrease of the contrary power on the opposite side.            In
 charging positively no gradual addition of electric matter
 can be made to one side without a proper conveyance for
 an equal quantity to pass off on the other side, and in its
gradual discharge none can be taken from the positive side
 without affording the negative side an opportunity of ob
 taining an equal quantity. The experiments of Mr. lirookes
 have been supposed to militate against this opinion ; but
they seem more properly to confirm              it,
                                               allowing some de
gree of limitation to the general proposition         he found on
                                                           ;
charging an insulated phial,      by means of       pointed wire,
                                                       a
that in the act of charging both sides indicated positive
electricity; by  the theory the electric fluid     driven off from
                                                      is
the external surface   by the repulsive action of the positive
electricity on the internal side of the phial, and             by
                                                          the con
finement of insulation will be constrained to pass gradually
through the point, of course producing the effect of accu
mulation. You will probably recollect, that during the last
sessions your experimental committee repeated these expe
riments with some additional circumstances           and you will
                                                           ;
remember, that when the phial was not insulated the fluid
seemed to pass off instantly  ;   and the outside, even during
the act of charging, always indicated the negative electri
city.   The most serious objection         derived from the dif
                                           is
ficulty of conceiving how    a  fluid incapable of percolating
the pores of glass can act through the same pores                   by   a
peculiar occult repulsive quality      :but when we consider
the mysterious qualities of gravitation, of magnetism, and
even of fluids, whose disposition to rise to the same level              is
equally unaccountable, we shall feel obliged to acknowledge
that this quality affords no rational presumption against the
truth of the theory. After all, whatever judgment we form
of the general principle, its application in various instances
will be insufficient to explain the observed phenomena.
                                                                    Mr.

          On   the  Motion of Bodies    affected by Friction.       1 13
Mr. Cavallo        has candidly acknowledged the difficulty of
reconciling various properties of charged electrics with any
received theory.       Where, for instance, does the charge re
side ? Not in the coating, as may satisfactorily be shown :
if in the glass, and the fluid can penetrate any the smallest
portion, a glass might be made so thin that the fluid would
freely pervade its substance ; but a glass ball y&jjth of an
inch thick will receive a powerful charge. The hypothesis
still remains incumbered with numerous difficulties ; and it
must be left to future investigation to determine whether
it shall be wholly rejected, or whether subsequent discove
ries may enable us to apply the foregoing principles with
more certainty and success.
XIV.     On the Motion of Bodies affected by Friction. By the
    Rev. Samuel Vince, A.M. of Cambridge.                     Communi
    cated by Anthony Shepherd, D. D. F. R. S. Plumian
    Professor of Astronomy and Experimental Philosophy at
    Cambridge.        Read November 25, ] 784.
                         [Concluded from p. 58.]
                           PROPOSITION       U.
 TjET     the body be projected on an horizontal plane LM
 (fig. 3.) with a given velocity, to determine the space through
 which tlw body will move before it slops, or before its motion
 becomes    uniform.
    Case I. — 1. Suppose the body to have no rotatory mo
 tion when it begins to move ; and let a = the velocity of
 projection per second measured in feet, and let the retarding
 force of the friction of the body measured by the velocity
 of the body which it can destroy in one second of time, be
 determined by experiment and called F, and let x be the
 space through which the body would move by the time its
 motion was all destroyed when projected with the velocity
 «, and retarded by a force F ; then, from the principles of
 uniformly retarded motion, x =               and  if   t = time of de-
 •cribing that space,       we
                                 haver=-p,      and hence      the space
                                                  2a      F
 described    in the first second   of time =               .  Now it is
                                                      2
  manifest that when the rotatory motion of the body about its
  axis is equal to its progressive motion, the point a will be
  carried backwards by the former motion as much as it is
     Vol. XVII. No. 66.                II                         carried

114       On the Motion       of Bodies  affected   ly Friction.
carried    forwards by the latter; consequently the point of
contact of the body with the plane will then have no mo
tion in the direction of the plane, and hence the friction
will at that instant cease, and the body will continue to rolh
on uniformly without sliding with the velocity which it has*
at that point.       Put therefore z = the space described from
the commencement of the motion till it becomes uniform,
then the body being uniformly retarded, the spaces from
the end of the motion vary as the squares of the velocities,
hence     ~     : a- (::  1 :
                               2F)      ~      —   z  :  a* —   2 Fx    =o
square    of  the progressive velocity when the motion become*
uniform     ; therefore   the velocity destroyed by friction = a —
^ a-    — 2 Fx ; hence, as the velocity generated or destroyed
in   the same time is in proportion to the force, we have
by Cor. 2. Prop. 1.         rs   : ra  :-.  a —   j/ a- —   %F z  :     X
a —    v/a-  — 2  Fz    the velocity  of   the circumference     efg ge
nerated about the center, consequently              Va*—    2 Fz = — x
                             i,             rs- + 2   rs  xra  x  a'2
a —    v/~Z
          a2  — 2  F z,  and hence   z=                                the
                                                    a** x 2F
space which the body describes before the motion becomes
uniform.
    2.  If  we substitute this value      of z into    the expression for
the velocity, J   we shall have a x — for the velocity1 of the
                                         rs
body when its motion becomes uniform ; hence therefore it
appears that the velocity of the bodv, when the friction
ceases, will be the same whatever be the quantity of the
friction.      If the body be the circumference of a circle, it
 will always lose half the velocity before its motion becomes
 uniform.
     Cas^ II. — 1. Let the body, besides having a progressive
 velocity in the direction LM (fig. 3.) have also a rotatory
 motion about its center in the direction gfe, and let v re
 present the initial velocity of any point of the circumference
 about the center, and suppose it first to be less than a ; then
 friction being a uniformly retarding force, no alteration of
 the velocity of the point of contact of the body upon the
 plane can affect the quantity of friction ; hence the pro
gressive velocity of the body will be the same as before, and
 eonscquentlv the rotatory velocity generated by friction will
 also be the same; to which if we add the velocity about the
                                                                    centet

                  On I lie Motion                                                    Friction,              tl5
                                            of Bodies           affected by
    center at the beginning                        of       the      motion,          we shall have
    the whole              rotatory motion            ;     hence, therefore, v                -\               x
                                                                                                     TS
    a —       *   a° — 2         F    a;   = */    a" — 2            F   x,       consequently          z =
    a« X   as*—v x rs                 + a x ra~         .                     ,      ., , , ~               .
                                                      the space desenbed                   before           the
    motion becomes uniform.
      2. If this value of z be substituted into the expression
 for the velocity, we shall                       have                                    for the ve-
                                                                          as
 l»city when               the   friction    ceases.
   3. If v = a, then z = o, and hence the body will con
tinue to move uniformly with the first velocity.
   4. If v be greater than c, then the rotatory motion of
the point a on the plane being greater than its progressive
motion and in a contrary direction, the absolute motion of
the point a upon the plane will be in the direction ML, and
consequently friction will now act in the direction LM in
which the body moves, and therefore will accelerate the
progressive and retard the rotatory motion ; henee it appears
that the progressive motion       body may be accelerated
                                                   of'
                                                    a
    by
   friction.   Now   to determine  the space described before
the motion becomes uniform, we may observe that as the
progressive motion of the body      now accelerated, the ve is
locity after has described any space
                      it             will be =      +   z,          z                  V  a         2F
hence the velocity acquired = v a" +       z — a, and con                 2   F
sequently the rotatory velocity destroyed — x                                       t/a- +2Fz—a,
hence      v                 x   */   a- +   2  F     z     —   a    —   */ a" +      2F   z, there-
                        rs
                   rs   xv +                a     — a- x as*                                    .       .
n
fore      z   =
                                  t
                                      rx
                                      a
                                                  :                      'he space required.
     5.    If     a   = o. or         the body be placed upon the plane                             with-
out Any progressive velocity,                         then      z    = —             -.
     Case         III. — 1.
                    Let the given rotatory motion be in the
direction    ef; then as the friction must in this case always
                  g
act in the direction ML,      must continually tend to destroy
                                             it
both the progressive and rotatory motion.     Now as the ve
locity destroyed     the same time
                                 in   in proportion to the re   is
tarding force, and the force which retards the rotatory      to                                     is
the force which retards the progressive velocity       Cor. 2.                            by
 Prop. I. as ra          therefore
                             :   r     be to a as ra
                                      s,                 to rs,
                                                            if   v                         ia
                                                  H   2                                             then

 116.          On the Motion       of Bodies    affected     ly Friction.
 then the retarding forces being in proportion to the veloci
 ties, both motions will be destroyed together, and conse
 quently the body, after describing a certain space, will rest ;
 which space, being that described by the body uniformly
 retarded by the force F, will, from what was proved in
 Case      I.   be equal     to —   ,
     0.    If v bears a greater proportion to a than ra does to
 r  v,   it is manifest that the rotatory motion will not be all
 destroyed when the progressive is ; consequently the body,
 after     it has described       the space          ,  will return back in the
                                                ^-
 direction ML; for the progressive motion being then de
 stroyed, and the rotatory motion still continuing in the
  direction g e f, will cause the body to return with an ac-
  celcrative velocity until the friction ceases by the body's
 beginning to roll, after which it will move on uniformly.
 Now to determine the space described before this happens,
                                        r" *   a
  we     havers        :  ra ::   a   :            the rotatory velocity de-
                                           rs
                                                                             X °
  stroved when the progressive              is all lost    ; hence v —   T-       =
 'vx.rs-ay.ra
              —             =
                                ,                  .    .         .    .
                               the rotatory velocity at that time, which
                                                                               ...
  being substituted for v in the last article                    of Case II.  gives
 *—          — n *-
        r—..-.              for the space
                                        1      described before the motion
        2l'    X as-
  becomes uniform.
       3.   If   ?' has a less proportion to a than ra has to rs, it
  is manifest that the rotatory motion will be destroyed before
  the progressive ; in w hich case a rotatory motion will be
¦
  generated in a contrary direction until the two motions be
  come equal, when the friction will instantly cease, and the
  body will then move on uniformly. Now ra : rs :: v :
  — — — — the progressive            velocity destroyed when the rotatory
                                           X
  velocity ceases, hence a —             ?     ¦ =
                                            ra                    ra
 gressive          velocity when it begins its rotatory motion
 in a contrary direction: substitute therefore this quan
 tity for a in the expression for % in Case I. and we have
     —                                                 2
  rs:    +  2rsxraxaxra          —— 5 — vxrs              _    ,
                                                          for the space
                                                                          ,    .,
                                                                         described
                                                                                    .
                    a s - x a r2 x 2 r                               r
 after the rotatory motion ceases before the motion of the
 body becomes uniform.                   Now to determine the space de
                                                                            scribed

             On tlie Motion            of Bodies      affected by Friction.            1 17
 scribed Wore the rotatory motion was all destroyed, we
  have (as the space from the end of a uniformly retarded
  motion      varies     as    the     square      of     the   velocity) a*       : —     : :
 a  x ra —      v
                ,
                        l
                    x :r—
                             :
                                 a  x ra — v x rs
                                           _
                                                                .
                                                               the space
                                                                               ,
                                                                              that could
                                                                                          , ,
            r a-                         2b x ra-                     *
 have been described from the time that the rotators' velocity
  was destroved, until the progressive motion would have
 been destroyed had the friction continued to act ; hence
   a2      a x    r a — v     x r    s        2avx.rax.TS             — »!
                                                                         ~
                                                                             x   ri!    ,
  3F              2F x ra-                                  2  F  X r u-
 space described         when the rotatory motion was all destroyed,
 .         rs- +    2rsx ra      x  a
                                      —x or—
                                           —=
                                                v x   sr     , 2av  xra xrs—v? xrs*
 hence
                      or .
                            x ar" x        lb                1
                                                                        lb x ra';
                                                                        —,-j
  =    the whole space described                 by the body before its motion
  becomes uniform.
                                         DEFINITION.
      The   center of friction                    is that point in the base of a
 lady     on which       it  revolves,        into    which if the whole surface
 of   the   base,    and    the      mass     of    the    body were collected, and
 made to revolve about the center of the base of the given body,
 the angular velocity destroyed by its friction would be equal
 to the angular velocity destroyed in the given body by its
friction in the same time.
                                   PROPOSITION              ill.
                        To  find        the center       of friction.
     Let FGH (fig. 4.) be the base of a body revolving about
 its center C, and suppose about a, b, c, &.c. to be indcli-
 uitely small parts of the base, and let A, B, C, &c. be
 the corresponding parts of the solid, or the prismatic parts
 having a, b, c, k.c. for their bases; and P the center of
 friction. Now it is manifest that the decrement of the an
 gular velocity must vary as the whole diminution of the
 momentum of rotation caused by the friction directly, and
 as the whole momentum of rotation or effect of the inertia
 of all the particles of the solid inversely ; the former being
 employed in diminishing the angular velocity, and the latter
 in opposing that diminution by the endeavour of the par
 ticles to persevere in their motion.                        Hence, if the effect of           .
 the friction        varies     as    the    effect    of    the inertia, the decre
 ments     of  the    angular velocity           in   a   given time will be equal.
 Now     as   the    quantity       of    friction      (as has been proved from
 experiments)         does     not     depend      on    the velocity, tlie effect of
                                             Ua                                       the

118         On the Motion              of Bodies affected          by   Friction.
the friction of the elementary parts of the base a, I, c, &c.
will be as a x aC, b x bC, c x cC, &c. also the effect of
the inertia of the corresponding parts of the body will be
as A x aC-, B x bC2, C x cC-, &c.           Now when the
whole surface of the base and mass     of the body are con
centrated       in P,        the effect     of    the frictionwill be as a + b + c +
&c. x CP,            and      of    the inertia as         A+B + C + &c. x CP2 ;
consequently a x cC + b x bC + c x cC + 8tc. : a+b+c+
&c. x CP :: A x «C + B X bC"- + C x cC2 + &c. :
                        '
A+B+C+ &e. x CP^ ; and hence
      _A x aC- + B x *C- + C x cC°- + kc. x u +_^-K+ &c
     =
       ^WaC + b~x IC + c x cC + &c. x A+B + C + &c.
«=    (if = the sum of the products of each particle into
            S
the square of its distance from the axis of motion,    =                                 T
the sum of the products of each part of the base into its
distance from the center,   = the area of the base,
                                              s     = the-                          t
                             x
solid content of the body) — .
                                                 S    s
                                                  ^
                                      PROPOSITION            IV.
   Given the velocity with which      body begins to revolvea
about the center   its base, to determine tile number
                              of                         re                              of
volutions which the body wi.1 make before                               all its motion         be
destroyed.
  Let the friction, expressed     the velocity which  by   able                     it   is
to destroy in the body         were projected in
                                            if   it  right line                a
horizontally  in one second,   be determined      experiment,             by
and called F; and suppose the initial velocity of the center
of friction  about   P to be a.   Then conceiving the whole
                                   C
surface of the base and mass of the body to be collected
into the point               P,    and (as has been proved in Prop.                     II.)   ~
•will be the spacewhich the body so concentrated will de
scribe before all its motion be destroyed; hence     we put                        if
* = PC,    = the circumference of
                p                     circle whose radius    a                                 is
unity, then will pz = circumference described     the point                    by
P ;   consequently
           ^                 1          =   = the number of revolutions re-
                                   2p%?
quired.
   Cor.         If   the solid be         a   cylinder and       r   be the radius        of   its
                             —
                             3
                         =                                                 of revolutions
                             T
base, then           z            ,   and therefore the number
                              4
 *~
      Zp rF*
                                                                           PROPOSITION

                       On tlie Motion                   of Bodies            affected by       Friction.        1 19
                                                    proposition v.
   To Jind the nature of t!w curve described by any point of
a body affected by friction, when it descends down any in
clined plane.
      Let         efg
              (fig. 5.) be the body, the points a, r, s, as in
Prop.     and     I.
                conceive st, rn, to be two indefinitely small
spaces  described   by the points s and r in the same time, and
which therefore will represent the. velocities of those points ;
but from Prop. I. the ratio of these velocities is expressed
by m X CB : a x CA, hence st :                : : m x CB : a x                    rn
CA. With the center?- let a circle vw be described touch
ing the plane                      LM
                       which is parallel to AC at the point 1,
and let the radius of this circle be such that, conceiving it
to descend upon the plane              along with the body de            LM
scending on CA, the point b may be at rest, or the circle
may rollwithout sliding.    To determine which radius, pro
duce rs to x, parallel to which draw ndy, and produce nt
to z ; now it is manifest, that in order to answer the con
ditions above mentioned, the velocity of the point x must
be to the velocity of the point r as 2 : 1, that is, zx : y x
::        2   :    1, hence           zy =yx = nr. Now zy : dt (: : ny :
nd)' :: rx                 :       rs; therefore dt = — x z J?/ = — X nr, hence
                                                                      rx          rx
                                                                   rs                   rx
t s
          i       . 7
          (= td + ds = td + nr
                               7          .     ?
                                                                 = — x ?ir + n r) = rs+
                                                                                s
                                                                                                           xnr,
                                                                   rx                 rx
                               r
consequently                              r*-       :   l   i:    ts :       nr   :   :   (from what is proved
above)             m     x CB         :       CA ;
                                              a x                        therefore a x         CA x rs + a x
      .                                                              ,                         ax— CA x rs—
.CA           x rx— m x                   CB x rx,'               hence        rx         —
                                                                                              mXCB-oXCA
the radius               of the circle which                               rolling down the inclined
plane LM, and carrying the                                                body with           it,
                                                                                        will give the
true ratio of its progressive to its rotatory motion, and con
sequently that point of the circle which coincides with any
given point of the body will, as the circle revolves upon the
fine LM, describe the same curve as the corresponding
point of the body but as the nature of the curve described
                                      ;
by  any point of     circle revolving upon straight line
                                    a                                                     a                is   al
ready very well known,           seems unnecessary to give the
                                                            it
investigation.
   By    method of reasoning, not very different, may the
              a
nature  of  the curve, which is described        any point of                                 by
body moving upon        an  horizontal  plane, and  affected                                                     by a
friction, be determined.
                                                                 H       4                          XV.    Copy

XV.   Copy of a Letter to the Rev. Samuel Vince, Plumian
  Professor of Astronomy , &>c. &c, Cambridge, from
  John Southern, Engineer, dated Birmingham, Janu
  ary 19, 1801.*
      Sir,
H   aving   read with much pleasure your paper on Friction,
published in the Philosophical Transactions, vol. lxxv.f
I am induced to trouble you with this letter, containing
an account of a few experiments made by me some years
since on the same subject, which were suggested by your
elegant proposition, in terms equivalent to the following :
that if friction be an uniform force, a body falling by its
own weight, but resisted by friction, would nevertheless
be uniformly      accelerated.    If you think the account is
worthy   the  attention   of the Royal Society, you will, per
haps, do me the favour of presenting it to that learned
body J.                          IL.
      ACCOUNT OF SOME EXPERIMENTS                    ON FRICTION.
   In the neighbourhood of this place there are many mills
used for turning grindstones which have a very great velo
city, and which, from the facility of being detached in that
state from the mill, are peculiarly adapted to ascertain, or
rather to corroborate, your proposition, and also to deter
mine in such cases the real quantum of friction ; and I
therefore availed myself of the liberty, which     readily acI
quired, to make experiments at one of them. Before I give
an account of these, it will be useful to give a description of
the apparatus employed in making them. (See Plate II.) §
  A, (Fig. 6.) the grindstone 52-^ inches diameter, and 20£
     inches thick.
   B, its spindle (of iron).
 CC, the pivots or cylindric parts of the spindle, upon
     which it and the stone turned, exactly 3 J inches dia
          meter.
    D,     the pulley   (of wood) upon the edge of which a lea
          ther strap went round, or rather half round, by which
          the stone was put in motion and continued so during
          pleasure, and by slipping off which the stone was de
          tached from the mill, and suffered to turn freely till
          the resistance of friction on the pivots of the spindle
          and of the air stopped it.
      •    Communicated by the Author.
      f     Sec the preceding article, continued fran our last number,
      t    Mr. Vince, approving   it, did present
                                                it to the Royal Society.
      §    Inserted in out last JNumbe.r,

                 Account                           of          some Experiments on                                                           Friction.                             121
  E,       a    slight axis made  wire, perhaps the tenth of an                      of      a
        inch diameter, turning with    the spindle, and attached
        by a socket  to the arbor of the seconds-hand of a com-                                                                                                                              .
        mon clock movement (not shown in the figure), so
        that every turn of the stone corresponded to a minute
        on the dial-plate, which was so situated as to be easily
     observed.
   The. experiments were  conducted as follows : By a very
excellent watch (having a detached scapement) I was ena
bled to call out at the expiration of every minute, and my
assistant being at his post, opposite the dial-plate of the
clock, noted the hour and minute pointed out by it at the
instant of my calling ; and, that as little time might be lost
as possible, we were both ready to observe as soon as the
stone was detached from the mill.
   Below are stated the particulars of three experiments,
                    j
being all that were made.
                                                               |
        First Experiment.                                                     Second Experiment.                                                   Third Experiment.
                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                               of
                                               being the num
                                                                                                                                                                         of
                pointed            Difference,
                                                                                             by the                                                        by the
                                                                                                               number                                                    number
                                   ber of turns made by the
                                                               differences.
                                                                                                                                                                                   i   ij
                                                                                                                               dincrences.
                                                                                             minute
 i
                                                                                                                                                           minute
                     and minute
                                                                               in minutes.                                                   in minutes.
               Hour
    o                                                                                                                                                                                  «
                                                                                                               or                                                        or
                                   stone in each successive                                  and                                                           and
               out by the clock.
                                                                                                               J| i
                                                                                                               Difference                                                Difference    -a
                                                               Second                                                          Second
                                   minute.
                                                               |                                      clock.
                                                                                                                                                           Hour                        3
                                                                                Time         Hour              turns.                         Time
                                                                                                                                                                                       U
   1                                                                                                                                                       clock.        turns.
                                                                                                                               1                                                       X
               h. m.                                                                         h. m.                                                         h. m.
  tyO\     t   12 SO                                                           0             3        25                                      0            11 54
                                         250                                                                    254                                                         257
     1          5          0                                   so              1             7        39                       28             1            4        11                 33
                                          220                                                                    226                                                        224
                          40                                   S4                            11 25                              28              2                   55                 30
                                                               -
                8                                                               2                                                                          7
 intfi.                                   186                                                                    198                                                         194
               11 46                                                            3            2        43                         26             3          11       9                  31
                                           157                                                                    172                                                        163
 ..,,[4-        2         23                                    SO               4           5        35                          2P            4          1        52                 27
                                           127                                                                    114                                                        136
                4         30                                     •3;            5            7        59                          24             5         4        8                  28
  X-
                                           101                                                                    120                                                        108
                 6        11                                     '2.;            6           9        59                          26             6         5        56                 28
                                              76                                                                        94                                                        80
                7         27                                      24             7           11 33                                 26            7         7        16                 20
                                              52                                                                        68                                                        51
                 5         IS                                                     8          12 41                                 2.1            8         8        7
                                           25                                                                           43
                                                                                                                                                                           17^
                 8        44             at rest                                  9          1         24                                    8'      55'    8       24J at rest
                                                                                                                        10J
 Whole No.#f turns 1134                                                                                                                      No. of turns 1230j
                                                                              9'S6'          1         S4J      lat     res:
                                                                              No. of turns 1329.
                                                                                                                                                                                        It

  122      Account  of  some Experiments   on Friction.
    It is well known to mathematicians, that had the re
 sistances which opposed the motion of the stone been uni
 form, and the observations correct, the second differences,
 or those contained in the fourth column of each experi
 ment, would have been the same, or a constant quantity.
 This it appears was not so, and several causes can be as
 signed why they might not be so, though friction itself be
an uniform resistance : First, when the stone was making
 860 or 270 turns per minute, as it was at the beginning; of
each experiment, the minute-hand would be passing over
A\ minutes on the dial-plate per second of time, and conse
quently it was difficult to observe the precise place of the
hand.     Hence it is easy to see that a variation might arise
on this account, especially when it is considered that the
moment of calling by one person, and of attention of a se
cond, might not be simultaneous. Secondly, as the circum-.
ference of the stone at the beginning of the experiments
was moving with a velocity of upwards of 60 feet per se
cond, some resistance from the air would necessarily arise,
¦which would diminish as the stone revolved      more slowly,
and this would create a difference in. the uniformity of
resistance, and consequently in the second differences.
Thirdly, the mill being used for grinding, the principal
part of the apparatus was covered with siliceous dust ; and
though the rubbing parts were protected from it as much as
possible, some particles of it might, by the shaking of the
machine, fall between the rubbing surfaces, and thus occa
sion a variation in the resisting force at different instants.
I am the more inclined to believe this was actually the case,
from observing in the table the variation of mean resistance
in the three experiments, notwithstanding they were made
under circumstances as precisely the same as possibly could
he : for in the second experiment the stone made 135 more
turns before it came to rest than it did in the first, although
the initial velocities were not materially different ; and in
the third experiment, notwithstanding the initial velocity
was greater than in the second, the whole number of revo
lutions was 99 less.
    If the second differences for each corresponding minute
f»f time in the three experiments be added together, and di
vided by 3, the numbers 30l, 30C, 2SJ, 2S^, 26, 26-1, 260.
will be obtained for mean second differences ; and had the
experiments been very numerous, I think the probability is
great that a set of means would hare arisen which would
nave shown a more steadily decreasing scries.       From these
few cxperimunts, however, it seems Tair to infer, that the
                                                      resistance

            Account     of some Experiments          on  Friction.        123
resistance      is greater when the velocity is greater: but it
will shortly       be seen whether this increase of resistance may
not be attributed to the air.
      I  will now proceed to estimate the intensity of these re
sistances from the facts related :
      The grindstone being 521 inches diameter and 20} inches
thick, Us solid contents were consequently 25?, cubic feet:
the specific gravity of a piece of stone of the same kind was
accurately taken, and found to be 2.208 : a cubic foot of it
would therefore weigh 138lb., and the whole grindstone
350llb. The iron spindle and wooden pulley were by calcu
 lation 2001b., making the whole weight that was supported
by the pivots of the spindle in round numbers 3700lb.
      The resistance which a particle of matter at the distance
x from its centre of motion opposes to a change of angular
 motion is as x-, the resistance being measured by a power
 applied at a constant distance from the centre. In order to
  find the sum of resistances of all the matter in the stone, it
 is to be considered that the number of particles at the di
  stance x is tmxic (t being = the thickness of the stone, and
  m = 6,283 &c = the circumference of a circle whose ra
  dius is l) ; and as the resistance of every one of these par
  ticles is, as before said, x- the fluxion of the sum of all the
   resistances      = tmx3x whose fluent, or sum of resistances
   =           = when x       —  r,  (the radius     of the  stone)       *
        If all the particles of the stone had been at the distance r
   from the centre, the sum of resistances "would have been as
                                        1)1tT^
   the solid content         x r2   =          ; it is therefore   evident that
   the sum of resistances           of all the particles of the stone is
    half what it would be         if every particle were at the circum
    ference, and had the           same      angular velocity    :  for         ;
                                                                          4
                 f
       2
         By the experiments it        appeared that when the resistance
    of   the air might be esteemed inconsiderable (the velocity of
    the stone being comparatively small), the retardation of the
    velocity was about 2G turns per minute attributable to the
     friction on the pivots. It may therefore be asked, What
     power acting uniformly would give to half the quantity of
     matter in the stone ('= 1750lb.) a velocity equal to 2C
     times its circumference?           Twenty-six times the circumfe
     rence    of the  stone is about 35 7£ feet.          Gravity would give
                                                                      a velocity

     154        Account  of some Experiments   on  Friction.
    a velocity = 32V x 60 = 1950 feet per second at the end
    of   one minute to a body falling freely, or 1 1 7000
                                                            feet per
    minute; and the accelerating or retarding power being as-
    the velocity acquired or destroyed in a given time, we have
    117000 : 35 7+ :: 1750 : 5,35 = the power in pounds
   applied at the circumference of the stone that would ge
   nerate or destroy the velocity of 26 turns per minute.
       The resistance arising from friction is not, in the expe
   riments, applied at the circumference of the stone, but at
   that of the rubbing parts of the spindle, which, as before
   stated, was 3^ inches diameter ; therefore to find the actual
   resistance caused by friction, 5,35lb. is to be increased in
   the inverse ratio of the diameter of the stone to that of the
  pivots: hence, 3,125 : 52,5 :: 5,35 : oolb. nearly, the re
   sistance arising from the friction of 3700lb. of matter, or
   less than one-fortieth part of the weight.
       I purposely omit to take into account the resistances of
  inertia; of the iron spindle and wooden pulley, because the
  former from its centric situation, and the latter from its
  lightness, would not materially affect the conclusion.
       It may now be judged of in some degree, whether the
  greater resistance which appeared to retard the stone under
 greater velocities might not arise from the air.       It has been
  shown that the mean least and mean greatest retardations
  per minute were 26 and 30J revolutions ; if 26 turns be
 •quivalent, as shown above, to 5,35lb., at the circumfe
 rence, 30£ are equivalent to 6,3 lib. and the difference o6lb.
 would cause this extra resistance.      That a stone of the dia
 meter specified, whose sides were very roughly hewn, and
 which moved in a trough nearly half its depth with a velo
 city of upwards of 60 feet per second, should meet, with a
 resistance from the air equal to not quite one pound weight
 at its circumference, is not with ine a matter of surprise,
and I have no hesitation in attributing the variations in the
 mean second differences to this cause.
      It will be evident, on due consideration of the facts which
occurred at the end of each experiment, that the resistance
was much greater in the last portion of time of each than
in the previous ones ; and though part of this might arise
from the small velocity of the rubbing surfaces at that pe»
riod of the experiments, part might also arise from a cir
cumstance which was obvious enough, viz. the stone being
heavier on one side of the centre than on the other, so that
the motion in the latter seconds of time was considerably
irregular.
      On the wholej I concliicle that these experiments con
                3                                              ttuu

       On   the   Bite of a   Snake cured    lij   Volatile   Alkali.            125
 firm yours in relation to the induction that friction               an     is
 uniform resistance,       at least where the rubbing surface
 moves with       velocity of from
                  a                      oinches to      feet per se
                                                            4
 cond,    and  that  in favourable    cases  it does not   exceed the
fortieth part     ofthe pressure   or  weight  which  occasions  it.
     The pivots of the spindles were steeled, ran in brasses,
 which together might be seven or eight inches long (say
 3^- or
        4  inches each), and were lubricated with, mutton suet
 laid against the pivots       and as
                                ;        a very gentle heat was ex
 cited bv the friction the suet was softened, but                  by
                                                             no means
 in fluid or even semi-fluid state. The necks of the spindle
   a
 had this kind of temperature when made the experiments,
                                             I
 the stone having been at irs usual work several hours be
 foreI    began them     ; and       being desirous of taking them
                                    I,
  in their common state of work, made no alteration what
  ever in this respect.
     When these experiments were made (June 1797)               hoped   I
  that some opportunity would soon occur of making further
  ones on the same subject in the same manner, in which                          I
  mijrht balance the stone and prepare every circumstance
  with due care but as no such opportunity has since oc
                   :
  curred,   I am induced to present this account to you, sir,
  grounded on the few experiments as they ivere made.
                   I  am, sir, with great respect,
                               Your most obliged servant,
                                                        John Southern.
    These experiments are the more worthy of notice, as
 they were made on actual and heavy machinery, with con
 siderable variation of velocity of the rubbing surface, and
 great spaces were rubbed over       the weight which caused
                                         :
 the friction being upwards of 33cwt., the velocity of the
 rubbing surfaces     feet per second at the greatest, and the
                       4
 length of surface rubbed over more than 1000 feet in each
 of uvo experiments, and not much short of that in the
 other.                                                   J. S.
   August 4, 1803.
 XVI.    On the Bite       of   a Snake cured      by   Volatile   Alkali. By
                       David Ramsay, M. D.
 A. number of extraordinary cures performed within the
 last twenty years, in the East Indies, on persons bitten by
 snakes, have been communicated to the public in Jones's
 Asiatic Researches.   These were effected by eau de luce, or
                                                                                   by

     126                 On the Bite  of a Snake
    by volatile caustic alkali.     Similar cures are recorded irs
     Anderson's Recreations, as having taken place in Pondi*
     cherry in 1798 and 1799-     About the same time my much
    esteemed friend Mr. Peale, of Philadelphia, added a living
    rattlesnake to his valuable, museum, and invited physi
    cians and others to subject animals to its bite, with a view
    of determining, by subsequent experiments, the compara
    tive merits of the different remedies commonly recom
    mended for obviating the effects of the bites of venomous
    animals.    The result proved, that the volatile alkali was
    entitled to a decided preference.    Possessed of these facts,
    I  have for some years past embraced every opportunity for
   ascertaining, by experiment, how far the bites of snakes,
   or the stings or bites of other venomous animals, might be
   alleviated by this powerful remedy.       A few cases have oc
   curred in my practice, both from the bites of snakes and
   from the stings of spiders, in each of which the result
   equalled the recorded beneficial effects of similar applica
  tions on the other side of our globe. The last was the case
  of a negro fellow, by name Stepney, who on the 3d instant
  was bitten by a rattlesnake at Health Farm, on Charleston
  Neck. I was not present ; but my provisional directions
  were so punctually carried into effect as to save a valuable
  life, that in all probability would otherwise have been lost.
  The experiment was decisive ; for though no other appli
  cation than the volatile alkali was used, the most excruci
  ating agonies of the patient were speedily relieved, and a
 complete cure obtained in a few days. From full conviction
 of the efficacy of the remedy, I recommend to planters, and
 others exposed to the bites of snakes, to have always at
 hand six or eight ounces of the strongest spirits of harts
 horn, well secured; and in case of a person being bitten by
 a snake, to give him 60 drops thereof in water, every six or
 eight minutes, till his pains begin to abate, and then to
 lengthen the interval between the doses in proportion to the
abatement of the pain.        The wounded part should also be
frequently washed with the same medicine.          The spirit of
hartshorn is particularly designated, because the planters
are acquainted and generally provided with this medicine,
and can command it in all seasons and places : though it is
inferior in strength, and slower in its effects, than strong
caustic volatile alkali, yet experience has proved that it is
sufficiently strong to effect a speedy and complete cure.
      Oil should not be given before or during the exhibition
of the hartshorn ; for it would weaken its effects, or com
bine with it and make soap.        That the volatile alkali, pro
perly administered, will in a short time cure the bite of any
                                                           snake,

                      cured  ly  Volatile Alkali.                137
snake, or the sting of a spider, or any other venomous in-,
sect, is a medical fact as well established as that the Peru
vian bark will cure an intermittent fever.          There arc ex
ceptions to     all general rules, and  probably  more  to the latter
than to the former.        With the exception of a few extreme
cases in which the bite proves instantly mortal, either from
the uncommon virulence of the poison, the peculiar nature
of the part to which it is applied, or the operation of fear^
the volatile alkali may be depended on to afford a certain,
and speedy cure. Of this we have authentic evidence in the
books referred to above, which state cures performed in the.
East Indies by means thereof, even in cases where the
poison had advanced so far that mechanical force was ne
cessary to unlock the jaw before the medicine could be in
troduced.
    Such persons as have no access to these authorities, or
are slow to believe the records of distant events,           are re
quested, for their further satisfaction, to inform themselves
of the particulars of the cure before mentioned, as having
taken place on Charleston Neck since the commencement
 of the present month. On inquiry, they will find that the
 most alarming symptoms were removed in a few hours by
 the unassisted operation of this single remedy.
    That volatile alkali should always succeed is not to be ex
 pected ; but in nine cases out of ten its failure, on a pro
 per examination of every circumstance, would probably be
 found to arise from one or more of the following circum
 stances : — either the medicine given as volatile alkali was
 spurious, or inferior in its kind, or weakened by being fre
 quently opened, or insecurely corked ; or that it had been
 given in too small doses, or at too long intervals.            Such
 persons as design to give it a trial are requested to be mi
 nutely attentive to each of these particulars.
    As the hydrophobia following the bite of a mad dog has
 resisted all the remedies hitherto used for its cure, it is sub
 mitted to physicians whether, on principles of analogy, it
 would not be well to try the effects of volatile alkali, rather
 than resign a patient to his fate, or repeat the medicines
 which on frequent trials have always been found unavailing?
 A doubtful remedy is better than none. He who does not
 do all in his power to save a life, especially one committed
 to his care, is guilty of a species of murder.
     I will be obligea by information of the result of any ex
  periments that may be made in consequence of this com
  munication.                                     David Ramsay.
    Charleston,
 June  itj  4803.
                                                       XVII.   Letter

                             L    ,l28   j
XVII. Ltlter      to Dr. Ramsay, in consequence of his           0/-
   servations   on the Bite of a Snake cured by Volatile         Al
   kali.   By Benjamin      Barton, M. D.*
     DEAR SIR,
I   have
cured by
            seen your Observations on
           Volatile Alkali."       I
                                              " the Bite of a Snake
                                     rejoice to find that you have
undertaken the investigation of a subject so important as is
the one on which you have favoured the public with the
result of your experience.       I hope you will pursue the- in-'
quiry, as I am well persuaded that we are in want of some
                                                                       '
thing much more efficacious as a cure of the evil effects in-
dueed by the venom of the rattlesnake, and other serpents,
than any of the many vegetables which have been recomi'
mended to the public in such extravagant and unqualified
terms.
   Ever since the spring of 1S01 I have paid a great deal
of attention to the effects of the venom of the rattlesnake.
I have 'had a number of these reptiles, both old and young,'
under mv immediate care, and have caused them to bite
many and various species of animals, with the view to col
lect materials for a history of the poison. My experiments
have satisfied me, that the venom of the rattlesnake is one'
of the most deleterious substances with which we are ac- ;
quainted.      In many instances, the effects of the poison
were observed almost, instantaneously ; and so rapid is the •
progress of effects, that several of the bitten animals, such-1
as rabbits, dogs, &c, died in about thirty minutes.            I may
add,  that  a few  weeks  ago   a   man  died  in Jersey in  twenty-'*
                                                                         1
seven minutes after he had been bitten by a rattlesnake.
   The infirm state of my health, which compelled me to"
leave the city last summer, prevented me from pursuing my
experiments as I had wished to have done ; and the death
of the only remaining two of my snakes, by the cold of the
succeeding winter, has put it out of my power to do anv
thins: on the subject this summer.          But I shall not neglect
to resume the inquiry next spring, as I have the promise pf
                                                                         *
a number of living snakes; and I shall take great pleasure in
making you early acquainted with the result of my experi
ments.
   One of the objects of my inquiry is the discovery of the
best means of preventing or of curing the disease occasioned,
by the bite of the rattlesnake, and others of our venomous'
                    * Communicated
                                     by the Author.
                                                            Icrpcnts,    •

                         Oh the    Bite of Serpents.                                    12o
    serpents, such as the copper-head, &c.                       I
                                                                feel no disposi
    tion to exhaust any of my time in experimenting with all, or
   even a twentieth part, of the many vegetables which have
   been praised and employed for these purposes in different
   parts of the United States.              Many of these are unquestion
   ably   inert,   and    I  think   I  have   elsewhere shown how they
   have acquired their reputation *.                 I am far from denying
   that some of the vegetables to which I allude are deserving
   of a portion of the praise which has been bestowed upon
   them.      The seneca snake-root [fiohjgala senega of Lin
   naeus)
           is,  without doubt,    a       plant of great powers, and may
   be worthy of our attention as                a remedy against the bite of
   venomous serpents.             You know that among the Indians-
  this plant has sustained         a       high reputation in this respect.
  One of my correspondents (Mr. Samuel Preston, of this
  state,) has communicated to me                    acase which      worthy of
                                                                         is
  being mentioned.             In the year 798, man, whilst he was
                                                1           a
  mowing, was bitten         by   a     rattlesnake in the little toe of his
  foot. Almost instantly he was seized with                         pain in his
                                                                     a
  breast and eyes.           The leg became greatly swollen, and vio
  lent symptoms of       a       genuine tetanus ensued.           The seneca,
  which was at hand, was boiled in milk, and the patient
  drank large quantities of the decoction, at the same time
  that the root, in the shape of poultice, was applied to the
                                            a
  part immediately wounded.                 Hie medicine threw him into
a    profuse perspiration;         ain    short    time all his spasms sub
  sided, and at the end of two days he was able to return to
  his occupation of mowing again.
      This case, to which     I        have alluded in my Elements                      of
  Botany, part       iii.   p.  105,
                                   is      certainly an important one, as
I    thinkit    plainly     shows    that   the seneca           medicine well
                                                                is
                                                                 a
 adapted     to  some    cases    of the   bite of     rattlesnake.
                                                        a                rather
                                                                              I
 regret    that, in   the    work  just   mentioned,        Ishould  have  used
 the following words when speaking of the medicine: —
      Its great virtues as remedy for the bite of the rattle
                             a
 snake may,      I   believe, be safely called in question."                arn,
                                                                              I
 far, indeed, from supposing that               it   isan infallible medicine
 or specific on the contrary,
             :                          I       have not         doubt that
                                                                 a                      it
would fail to effect     a      cure in many cases of the bites of ve
nomous serpents. What relief could we expect from                            or.  it,
indeed from any thing else, in cases (such as the one in
Jersev) where death was induced in less than half an hour?                                    ,
 I      shall not omit to try the effects of the volatile alkali.
Hitherto   I     have not used        it,   because       had imagined that
                                                          I
  * Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, vol. iii. no. n.
Vol, XVII.       No. 66.               I                                      correct

130                      On the Bite  of Serpents.
correct experiments had nearly robbed it of all its former
reputation.        It appears from the abbe Fontana's highly in
teresting work on poisons, that this alkali, whether exter
nally applied or internally exhibited, was of no use in di
minishing the activity of the venom of the viper, which is
so very similar to that of our rattlesnake.           One quotation
from the Italian philosopher's work I beg Leave to lay before
you : " I had (he says) several animals, such as hens, rab-»
bits, guinea pigs, &c. bit in the leg, and some minute*
after made deep and extensive incisions into the wounded
parts. I washed these incisions with pure volatile alkali,
and covered the legs with linen bandages.              I got ready aa
equal    number     of   animals of the same   size, and   of the same
kinds,     to   serve  as a comparistfh.    These   were  likewise   bit
in the leg ; but I neither made incisions, nor applied to
them the volatile alkali. The result of twenty-four ex
periments was not favourable to this medicine applied to
the incisions, and the violence of the disease was even more,
considerable in the former than in the latter*."             Upon the
whole, Fontana is of opinion that his experiments
                                                                  " no*
only demonstrate the absolute inutility of the volatile al
kali against the bite of the viper, when applied externally;
but," that      "  they at the same time prove still further that
it cannot have a direct and specific operation when it is even
taken internally."
    I do not pretend, sir, to decide between your experience
and the experiments of Fontana.             I can, in great sincerity,
assure you that I repose much confidence in your cautioa
and accuracy in conducting medical inquiries, aud in your
.candour in relating your observations.           But do we not very
 often ascribe effecTs, both good and bad, to our remedies,
 which those remedies have not produced ? Do not our
 patients sometimes recover from violent diseases without
 the aid of any medicines whatever?            Does not nature (that-
 h, the powers or tendencies of the constitution) very fre
 quently cure a gonorrhoea? Nay, do we not find the same
 powers, in some instances, sufficient to cure the malignant
 disease of yellow fever ?
    The result of all my inquiries relative to the poison of
 serpents is very favourable to the opinion, that the instance*
 of spontaneous recovery from the influence of these poisons
 are numerous.          Without admitting this position as a fact,
 what satisfactory explanation can oe offered of the many
    * Treatise on the Venom of the Viper, &c. &c.— English tramlatiotv
 vol, ii. p*|;ts i, 6.
                                                              recoveries.

                       Analysis  of Ambergris.               \9\
  recoveries   from the bite of the rattlesnake, when    the ve
  getables   that were applied externally, or exhibited inter
  nally, were, if not nearly inert (mere nutrientia), at least
  endued with the most opposite powers ? Thus, the bulb of
  kypoxis erecta (which grows abundantly in Carolina and
  other parts of the United States) is by many persons deemed
  a sovereign remedy against the bite of the rattlesnake.
  But this bulb, which I nave often eaten, is almost as mild
  and inert as boiled rice.
     That an animal which has been bitten by a rattlesnake,
  whose poison has induced most violent symptoms, such as
 acute pain, fever, and even palsy of the extremities, shall
 completely recover from these symptoms without the aid of
 any medicine whatever, is a fact which is familiarly known
 to me from my own experiments.
     Permit me to suggest to you the propriety of employing
 active emetics, so as to excite full vomiting, in some of the
 cases of the bites of serpents that may come under your
 care.   The very striking analogy which subsists between the
 effects of the venom of the rattlesnake and those of the
 poison inducing malignant yellow fever, has led me to
 suspect that emetics might be useful in the former as well
•as in the latter of these cases.       Fontana found the tartar
 emetic useful in cases of the bite of the viper ; and D. Boys,
 an intelligent physician who is settled at Staunton in Vir
 ginia, informed me (in my visit to that place last summer)
 that he had found emetics so managed as to excite both
 puking and purging, more useful than any thing else in re
 moving the symptoms originating from the bite of the
 copper-head snake, which is not less venomous than the
 rattlesnake.
    Be assured of the high respect which I entertain for your
 talents and usefulness in life, and permit me to subscribe
 myself, dear sir,
                        Your very obedient and humble servant,
                               and affectionate friend,
   Philadelphia,                     BENJAMIN SMITH BARTON.
 July 13d, 1I-03.
 XVIII.    Analysis of Ambergris. By      Bouillon-Lagrange.
                        [Concluded from p.
 EXP. VI.       Alkalies unite with ambergris, and form with it
<soluble
           soaps.
    Thirty grains of ambergris with ten grains of pure potash
                                 I 2                       were

f32                               Analysis     of Amforgrk.
were  put into a platina crucible and exposed to a gentle
heat   the mixture fused without manifesting the presence
        :
of ammonia : by cooling, a brownish homogeneous mass
was obtained,                                           ~-   '          i
   One ounce of distilled water bcimr, poured over it dis
solved a part.   This liquor was exceedingly alkaline.     •
   The other portion not soluble remained under a soft te
nacious form, which when warm adhered to the fingers.
   A larger quantity of water being-added, the whole> waa
dissolved.
   Caustic potash triturated some time in a mortar with
ambergris does not facilitate its solution by water.
   Ammonia cold has no action on          but with the help of
                                                         it,
heat dissolves it.  The mixture gradually becomes brown,
and         by
         evaporation gives    glutinous saponaceous nutter,
                                               a
similar in every thing to that obtained by potash.
   Exp. VII. Fixed oils, such as that of colsa, olives, &o;
dissolve    with the help of heat in very little timet. the
                 is it
                                                          a
solution     yellow and transparent, and      evaporation be   by
comes brown.
   Exp. VIII. Volatile oils also dissolve ambergris. Those
of turpentine, savin, and hyssop, do the same. With the
help of heat the solution takes place speedily.
   Evaporation gives    thick red magma which cannot be
                                      a
entirely  dried,  which  burns on coals, emitting          thick        a
smoke and an odour approaching that of ambergris. Al*
cohol dissolved this substance, and acquired     golden yellow      a
colour      was precipitated from
            :    it                      the help of beau
                                                    it   by                      j
   A complete solution cannot be obtained in volatile oils
which are too old, even with the assistance of Ions; continued
heat.                                                  . -
                                                             -              .    i
   Exp. IX. Solution       ether          by
                                    very speedy even without
                                                   is
heat.                                                                        .
    Exp. X. The solution of ambergris        alcohol    that,  by           is
alone which can conduct to any certain results. The con
stituent parts may be separated in such     manner, that bv    a
uniting them compound will be obtained the characters
                              a
of which approach near to those of the compound.                        •
    One gros of ambergris being reduced to line powder and
put into phial, two ounces of rectified alcohol were poured
                 a
over it. Twenty-four hours' maceration were suiheientite
give to the alcohol   cV.rk yellow colour.
                                      a     When the liquor
had been filtered   new quantity of alcohol was added to the
                                  a
Undissolved part, and the solution was facilitated bv tie-
rating the temperature.     When the whole was dissolved*
                     -.   •                                         .       except

                        Analysis     of Amlergris.                     1 3S
except a small quantity of black matter, the liquor was fil
tered still warm.    It passed through clear ; but by cooling
there was separated a light pale yellow substance, a part of
which remained attached to the sides of the vessel.
   The first alcoholic tincture made cold, and that arising
from the matter precipitated, were mixed, and evaporated to
the consistence of extract : it was of a reddish yellow co
lour, adhered   to the fingers, had an agreeable odour and
a- sweet taste.  The evaporation was continued to dryness :
in this state the matter with a brilliant and transparent
aspect became soft between die fingers, and burnt in the
same manner as resins.
  - The experiment was repeated,   to establish in a more po
sitive manner the characters of these two substances.
    For this purpose the ambergris was left, as before, to
macerate in alcohol for twenty-Four hours : it was then                fil
tered, and  a new quantity of alcohol was added to the re
siduum  :   the maceration was the same.         This second
liquor was less coloured than the former. A third dose of
alcohol was poured over the undissolved part, but         was     it
scarcely coloured. This little action of the alcohol on the
residuum gave reason to believe that        was no longer so
                                                    it
luble in that menstruum     but soon was convinced of the
                                :     I
contrary.   I  heated the mixture, and the whole matter was
dissolved in    moment.
                a          Nothing remained but about four
grains of black powder, which was oxide of carbon. The
            a
liquor was filtered warm, and by cooling there was preci
pitated a whitish yellow glutinous matter, which was sepa
rated from the liquor.
   This experiment proves the possibility of separating                 by
the help of alcohol three very distinct products        the first
                                                             :
soluble, cold, the second soluble warm, and the third inso
luble, which     separated in the form of dust.
                  is
   To establish the characters of the two first substances, the
alcoholic tincture made cold was evaporated to dryness.
There remained in the capsule 22 grains of            brown dry
                                                         a
matter, brilliant in the fracture, unalterable in the air, and
which became soft in        gentle heat
                                a         fifteen degrees were
                                                :
sufficient to give     ittenacious and glutinous consistence
                            a                                            :
when placed on coals         was entirely volatilized.
                                it                         If this
experiment    be made  in   silver
                                a  spoon, the   volatilization           is
effected with the same rapidity      emits an aromatic odour,
                                       :   it
and leaves no carbonaceous residuum.
   As suspected that this substance might have some ana
     I
logy with the resin extracted from the propdh            C. Vau-
                                                             by
                                      1    3               quclin,

134                     Analysis  of Ambergris.
quelin,    I made    some comparative experiments     with it. The
following      are the points in which they differ :
     1st,  It  fuses much more slowly.
    2d,   It  emits  a thick odorous smoke, which in smell ap--
proaches near to that of honey.
    3d, It swells up, and leaves a very voluminous charcoal.
    In the last place, this first substance extracted from am-1
bergris, which may be considered as a real resin, is soluble
in alcohol, and may be precipitated by water. This tine-*                     .
ture reddens turnsole paper ; which still proves that the al
cohol dissolves at the same time the benzoic acid previously
 found, either by burning the amber under a bell, or in treat
ing it with lime.
    Nothing now remains but to examine the product ob
tained by alcohol warm, after the resin has been extracted
by maceration.
    I have already said that there is separated from the al
cohol by cooling, a substance which deposits itself in part,
and which adheres to the sides of the vessel.
    When separated from the liquor and properly dried, it
remains light and somewhat voluminous;               it breaks and
moulders under the pressure of the finger, but soon after
it extends itself and becomes soft by the heat : it has a la-
mellated texture if left to cool slowly.
    It retains between its molcculae a little water and alcohol,
which are separated by keeping this substance some time in-
a state of fusion. When re-fused it is much less white than,
before, and no longer possesses the granulated texture it
exhibited.        In a word, I have found in it all the properties
of adipo-cira ; a substance which C. Fourcroy found in the
fat matter of dead bodies, and of which he described the                    .
characters in a memoir printed in the eighth volume of the
Annales de Chimie.
                            Recapitulation.                     .    ... .
    It appears, then, that we may conclude from these expe-4
ri meats    :                                                 ,
    1st,   That ambergris      is a compound    substance      which
burns and is entirely volatilized.                                  . .
    2d, That when distilled alone there is obtained from it a
liquor slightly acid, and an oil partly soluble in alcohol and
of an empyreumatic odour.                                    .
                                                                  •
    3d, That by sublimation, or the process of Scheele, ben
zoic acid is extracted from it.                                           ,
    4th, That water has no action on this substance.
                                                          5th, That

            Employment      of Platina in Porcelain Painting.                13*-
      Mh, That by help of         the nitric acid a matter analogous
 to resins mixed with adipo-cira is separated from it.
      6th, That concentrated            sulphuric, muriatic, and oxy
 genated muriatic        acid  char   it  without dissolving it.
      7th,   That with   alkalies  it  forms   a saponaceous compound.
     8th, That     fixed  and   volatile   oils,   ether, and alcohol, are
  the true solvents     of ambergris.
      9th, That alcohol affords the means of separating              its  con-,
 stituent parts in the following proportions :
                                                        Grammes.
                  Adipo-cira          -                    2*016
                  Resin          -          -       -      1-167
                  Benzoic acid             -        -      0*425
                  Carbonaceous matter               -      0-212
   i
                                                         '       '
                                                           3-820
-»   ¦: •                                                                  '  —*
 XIX.       Observations    on the Employment          of Platina in Porce
     lain Painting.        By Professor Kl.aproth, of Berlin *.
 In      the course of half a century since platina was introduced
 and known in Europe, the experiments made with it by
 various eminent chemists seem to have exhausted every
 thing that relates to the physical and chemical properties of
 this remarkable metal. The imperfect information, how
 ever, which relates to its mineralogical and natural history
 seems to require further investigation, though it must at
 the same time be acknowledged that our information in
 this respect appears to be worthy of confidence, as the Spa
 nish government has entrusted the inspection and manage
 ment of its mines in South America to men who to a
 knowledge of mineralogy and mining unite great zeal fop
 the improvement of these sciences.
     The real origin of platina is in all probability to be
 •scribed to revolutions which have taken place in the Cor
 dilleras by volcanoes, earthquakes, and inundations; and it
 is not improbable that these mountains still contain in their
 interior parts entire veins of platina, the discovery of which
 is perhaps reserved for future times.
     At present, Peru is the rJhly known country where pla
 tina is found, and particularly the district of Choco, where
 it is collected in the valleys between the mountains and
 rivers along with the gold in small laminae, or it is ob-
      * From   Schervr's Allgemtine!   Journal   der Cbcmie, no. 51, 18a*.
                                      1  4                              tained

136                         On the Employment             of Platina
tained by washing the earth.     When the largest grains of
gold  have  been  picked  from   the mixed mass of gold and
         the remaining gold is extracted by amalgamation ;
  y means of which operation the platina is left behind in
Elatina.
the form of flat plates or scales.                       .
   Ifhe deceptions formerly practised bv mixing gold with
platina have induced the Spanish government to prevent the
exportation of      and to give orders to all their servants in
                             it,
that country to keep the platina                          by
                                          them, and to wash                                     it
in water from time to time. But as means have been found
to detect easily and in   certain manner the adulteration of
                                       a
gold with platina, and also to employ           for valuable pur   it
poses,       to be hoped that the Spanish government will
              it   is
not persist         in
                causing   prohibition so injurious to the arts
                                       a
and to its own finances to be executed with the former se
verity.
   My object at present       not to enlarge on the chemical
                                           is
and physical properties of platina, but only to offer            few                    a
observations on the uses in the arts to which         has hitherto          it
been applied     and then to give an account of the result of
                        ;
an experiment which       made in regard to
                                       I          new application   a
of this metal to objects of manufacture.                      .'•                  ,        •   ¦
   The apparent int'usibility of platina          itself, formerly  by
considered as an insuperable obstacle, was sufficient to pre
vent the employment of       except in combination with other
                                           it
metals, as experience showed that        was capable of uniting,
                                                          it
with the greater part of them       fusion. Of such mixtures*
                                                     by
that arising from      combination of brass and platina was
                                   a
found to be exceedingly proper for the specula of reflecting
telescopes, as this alloy was susceptible of beautiful polish,          a
not subject to be injured      the prejudicial influence of the
                                            by
atmosphere and of moisture.         At lirst, however, the em
ployment of platina was not extended further until the ex
periments made known                       by
                              Morveau, Sago, and other che
mists, and afterwards prosecuted on         larger scale      count
                                                               a                  by
Von Sickingen, formed as        were an epoch in the history
                                                it
of thi3 metal, and showed in what manner platina might
be freed from its foreicn particles, be welded, hammered,
and drawn out into wire, so as to be applicable to           variety              * a
of   purposes.
                                                                                        ¦
  It   was, however, not yet passible to employ       in cases                   it
which required    an actual fusion for the purpose of casting
it; because this metal, in its purified state, was always                                       by
itself infusible in     common furnace.
                                   a         It was therefore
a discover)' of great importance to find that platina may be
rendered fusible      arsenic  by
                               aud that when mixed with this
                                            j
t
*     . . .                                                                      substance

                      in Porcelain Painting.                  ISf.
substance it may be cast in moulds, while the volatile metal
employed as a flux may be again driven off by heat, so that
the cast platina may then be hammered like any other me
tal. Bv employing this method, first made known by my
worthy colleague M. Achard, vessels and articles of various
kinds are made of platina, ard particularly at Paris.       1«
     Bergman, however,     had  shown   that platina which could
be reduced to a state of fusion only by employing a large
burning mirror, might be fused also by means of oxygen
gas. In this manner M. Pelletier, by means of phosphoric
glass, made from bones, combined with charcoal powder,
brought large masses of platina to a state of complete
fusion.                                                      - • ,¦
     How far platina might be employed in porcelain painting
has never yet, as far as I know, been examined : 1 there
 fore thought it of considerable importance to make some
 experiments on this subject, which did not deceive my ex
 pectation; but, on the contrary, convinced me that this
 object, in the hands of an ingenious artist, may be brought
 to perfection.
     Gold and silver have hitherto been the only metals sus
 ceptible of beinsi employed in their metallic form in paint
 ing and ornamenting porcelain, glass, and enamel. Gold
 answers this purpose so completely, that nothing further
 can be wished for on this head ; whereas silver does not
 answer so well.      As it possesses less density and is more
 porous than gold, it does not cover the ground so completely
 when applied to porcelain in thin leaves. The second cause
 of the inferiority of silver when employed in painting on
 porcelain arises from its nature, in consequence of which,
 when exposed to sulphureous and other phlogistic vapours,
  it becomes tarnished, loses its metallic splendour, and at
  fcn<rth grows black.      This inconvenience renders silver
  unfit for being employed in fine porcelain painting, and
 confines the application of metallic substances in this man
 ner to gold alone.
     i'latina, in this respect, may be classed next to gold;
  and by its white colour may supply the place of silver with
  out possessing any of its faults.    Jt.is not only capable, on
  account of its density and weight, in which it exceeds gold,
  of covering the ground completely, without leaving any
 perceptible interstices, as silver does ; but it withstands like
  gold all the variations of the atmosphere, as well as sulphu
  reous aiid other' \ apours.
     The process which I employ in the application of platina
  to painting on porcelain is simple and easy : it is as fol-
¦v    •    - .-.                                            lows;

   1-38    Employment      of P la Una in Porcelain Painting.
  lows : — I dissolve crude platina in aqua regia,and precipitate
  it by a saturated solution of sal ammoniac in water. The.
  red crystalline precipitate thence produced is dried, and
  being reduced to a very fine powder is slowly brought to a
  red heat in a glass retort. As the volatile neutral salt, com
 bined with the platina in this> precipitate, becomes sub
  limated, the metallic part remains behind in the form of
  a gray soft powder. This powder is then subjected to the
  Same process as gold ; that is to say, it is mixed with a
 small quantity of the same flux as that used for gold, and
 being ground with oil of spike is applied with a brush to the
 porcelain ; after which it is burnt-in under the muffle of an
 enameller's furnace, and then polished with a burnishing
  tool.
     The colour of platina burnt into porcelain in this man
 ner is a silver white, inclining a little to a steel gray. If the"
 platina be mixed in different proportions with gold, different
 shades of colour may be obtained ; the gradations of which
 may be numbered from the white colour of unmixed pla
 tina to the yellow colour of gold.          Platina is capable of re
 ceiving a considerable addition of gold before the transition
 from the white colour to yellow is perceptible. Thus, for
 example, in a mixture of four parts of gold and one of
 platina, no signs of the gold were to be ohserved, and the
 white colour could scarcely be distinguished from that of
 unmixed platina ; it was only when eight parts of gold to
 one of platina were employed that the gold colour assumed
 the superiority.
     I tried, in the like manner, different mixtures of platina
and silver; but the colour produced was dull, and did not
 seem proper for painting on porcelain.
     Besides this method of burning-in platina in substance
on porcelain, it may be employed also in its dissolved state ;
in which case it gives a different result both in its colour
and splendour.        The solution of it in aqua rcgia is evapo
rated, and the thickened residuum is then applied several-
times in succession to the porcelain.            The metallic matter
thus penetrates into the substance of the porcelain itself,,
and forms a metallic mirror of the colour and splendour of
polished steel*.
    * At the time this paper was read in the Royal Academy of Sciences,
the authnr exhibited several patterns, of porcelain oruimented  in this
taanncr, which had been made in die royal observatory.
                                                            XX.   M-

                                  f    139    ]
 XX.       Advantageous       Method     of preparing Red Oxide of
   i   .         Quicksilver.    By   J. W.   C. Fischer *.
 C Monsof          has observed that, in the preparation of the
 red oxide         quicksilver from nitrate of mercury, the whole
 of the acid is far from being employed for the complete ox
 idation of the quicksilver, as during the heating of the ni
 trate of mercury a considerable quantity of the acid is
 again obtained.          He therefore proposes the employment
 of a larger quantity of quicksilver than the quantity of ni
 trous acid destined for the solution is actually able to disr-.
 solve, as this excess of quicksilver must also be oxidated by-
 the heating of the salt brought to a state of dryness by the
 escape of the acid.          But as the nitrous acid of the shops
 does not always possess the same degree of concentration,
 I gave a recipe in another workf for finding the proper
 proportion of quicksilver, which is as follows : If the hot-
 prepared dry nitrate of mercury be rubbed up with from
 one-third to one-half part of metallic quicksilver, and ex
 posed in the usual manner to the fire, a proportion that
 may be employed under all circumstances will be ob
 tained.
      Mr. Schmidt, apothecary of Sonderburg, in consequence
 of the before-mentioned observation of C. Mons, made
 several experiments on this subject without the wished-for
 success, as he always obtained the excess of quicksilver in
 a metallic form.          The results of my present experiments
 were quite different, and fully answered my expectation.
      I dissolved in a common heat four hundred parts of me
 tallic quicksilver in nitrous acid.              To obtain a perfectly
 neutralized solution, the acid was added only in drops till
 all the quicksilver was dissolved. The solution was eva
 porated to dryness, in an evaporating dish, and the dry salt
 was rubbed up with 350 parts of metallic quicksilver.                   The
 powder      assumed    a dark   gray  colour   :  but  when    brought to
 the consistence of a thick paste by a little water, in order
 to complete the union of the metallic quicksilver, the
 colour became grayish white, and, in general, only five
 minutes were required to make the metallic quicksilver dis
 appear entirely.        The humid mass was moderately dried on
 a common stove, and being put into a retort was exposed
 to a sudden heat.         In three minutes a disengagement of
    *  Sclicrcr's Allgrmeints "Journal der Cbemie, no. 43, 1802.
     + Hiindbucb der Pbarmaccutiscben   Praxii, met einer Furrede von D. S. F.
Ihimbstadt. 1801.
                                                                     oxygen

 146         On several indigenous Plants which may
oxygen gas was observed, and the whitish-grav colour of
the whole mass was changed to a blackish red. The opera
tion was then suspended ; and, on cooling, the whole mass
exhibited throughout that uniform red colour observed in
red precipitate, when reduced to a state of the greatest
fineness; and it was so much divided that it could be shaken
from the retort without breaking it. No traces of metallic
quicksilver remained, but a small quantity of acid fluid ;
which induced me to repeat the experiment with a larger
quantity of mercury.          I therefore took 400 parts of quick
silver, which were dissolved as before in nitric acid : when
the solution was evaporated to dryness, it was mixed with
400 parts more of metallic quicksilver, and the mixture
was treated as before.         Except the difference in the weight,
the results of this operation were not different from the
preceding.                                                        ¦'- J
    This method not onlv saves         one  half of the nitric acid,
but the retdrt can be several times used for the same pur
pose.     The tedious process of preparing precipitate is also-
avoided, as it is soon obtained in the form of a very line
powder.      The loS3 of time and of fire is also much less, as
several pounds of white mercurial paste can be converted
 into red oxide in less than thirty minutes.           I subjected t*»
experiment,      however,      only a  few  ounces,  and  the opera
tion was ahvavs finished in from three to five minutes in
a Sudden heat.          On this account the present method is
highly   worthy    the   attention of chemists and apothecaries.
XXT.     A Memoir      concerning several indigenous Plants, which
    viay  serve a*   ft Substitute for Oak Bark, and for certain
   foreign   Articles    in the Tanning of Leather*.
The object       of this memoir is to show how the destruction
of  trees, and particularly of oak-trees, which are so valu
able, may in great part be prevented.          A great consumption
of them is caused bv the tanneries.           A discovery has been
made last summer, which will contribute to the preservation
of the trees, and to the continuation and even to the in
crease of the tanneries.          Eight new sorts of leather have
been prepared     and    tanned   without  any bark at all, and with
materials of which we shall give a detailed account.               By
using these articles, there is a saving, not only of bark,
but likewise of several foreign drugs, which are generally

                      serve as a Substitute for Oak   Bark.   ^         141
fcsed   in tanning.         It is surprising that
                                         the experiments on
which this discovery  is founded have not been made sooner,
as they are exceedingly easy, and the various methods prac
tised by other nations, and even by the most savage ones,
for making leather, pointed out the way to them.    In fact,
be it owing to the want of bark, or to old practice, it is
usual in several countries to tan leather with leaves, roots,
fruits, and juices.   We shall not enter now into all the
historical details of which the subject is susceptible; but it
is proper, however, to give a sketch of them.
   Some of the Calmuc Tartars, that rove about towards the
great wall of China, tan the skins of their horses with sour
mare's milk. In Persia, Egypt, and some countries bor
dering on Africa, goats* skins are tanned with the astringent
and leguminous fruit of the true acacia, which is gathered
before it is ripe.    In several parts of the Turkish empire
the same skins are made into Morocco leather by the means
of galls. The green nuts of the turpentine tree, and, ac
cording to some, even the leaves, as likewise those of the
lentisk tree, serve for the same purpose in many parts of
the Levant.    The small, or bundles of the leaves and youag
branches   of sumach,    is very well known, and is used in
all countries for the making of Cordovan leather.    It is also
well known that in several provinces of Italy, Spain, and
France there are actually used several plants, which may be
called planta coriarice, such as the arbutus, the celtis, the
tamarisk, the rhamnus, therhus myrtifolia, Sec. In Sweden
they use the bark of one of the small species of mountain
sallow, as also a wild plant known by the name of uve,
ursi. The Silesians use in tanning a sort of myrtle called
rausch.    But for tanning, nothing is used in Germany but
the bark of oak and birch tree, with some acorn shells j and
as to the making of Cordovan and Morocco leather, they
use sumach and galls, as almost all other nations do, . X.
   When the eight new methods of preparing leather al^-
ready alluded to shall be once introduced, all the other ai>
ticles will be no longer necessary ; and there will be found
m his majesty's dominions the plants fit for tanning, among
 which are some that will serve also for dyeing skins.     We
have already about sixty species of such plants ; and     after   if,
having made an exact choice, there should remain but
twenty of them, our object will be attained, both as to the
 preservation of wood, and the doing without foreign ar+
 icleij   .   .
  Skins differ from each other according to the species of
animals, as likewise according to their age, fond,, and tba
              ,   j                                  climate

Ut           On
climate they belong to ; whence it follows, that there mast
be various method? of tanning, all which can be retraced
to the three methods called in Germany weits-gakr (white
preparation), semiick-gar (soft preparation), and loh-gafire
(tanning).
   The first preparation is the same in these tl
When the skins are well cleansed, lime, or
are made use of to take off the hair, and then they are
washed several times, &c.
   But the following part of the process is not the same in
these different methods.     We shall omit at present the two
               s, which require several ingredients taken
               lgdoms of nature, such as alum,
     tartar, bran, meal, and fish oil ; but it is i
    rt into some details with regard to the third, in
             alone arc used, that serve to make a sort of i ve,
by  means   of   which the tanning is completed.
   This  third  method  can be subdivided again into four sorts,
according to the four principal sorts of leather that are pre
pared with the help of different vegetables, viz. 1 . Common
leather; 2. Cow's leather; 3. Cordovan; 4. Morocco lea-
     Every vegetable lye fit for making leather is either cold
or hot.
  The cold   process is the simplest and easiest, but, at the
same time, the slowest ; it is used for the coarsest and
heaviest sort of skins, which are put in holes, or in woodea
vessels, with oak or birch bark.
   The method of tanning with hot lyes is often very trouble
some, but it is more expeditious than the former one.
Some sorts of leather require three weeks ; others eight,
twelve, or fifteen days.     From twenty-ibur to thirty-six
hours are sufficient for Cordovan ; Morocco leather takes
seven or eight hours, and sometimes from sixteen to twenty.
This method is as follows : The lye is poured into wooden
Vessels, together with hot water ; the skins are put into    it,
and stirrafoftcn.   After eight days time the water thrown
                                                     is
out, heated again, poured upon fresh lye, and the whole
is poured upon the skins.     This operation  iscontinued and
repeated until the vegetable, parts have penetrated the sub
stance of the skins so as to change them into leather; which
is then dried, and given over to the curriers.
   We may remark here, that cow leather cannot be made
ss cheap with us as in Russia     ;  and that the scented sort
called tuir de Roussi derives that property from two em-
                  1                                pyreumatic

              serve as a Substitute for Oak   Bark.              143
pyreumatic oils, which it is rubbed with in the preparing
of it.                                             I..-.-    -
                                                                 / ...J
  As to Cordovan and Morocco leather, they            are made     of
goats' skins, and prepared, the one with sumach, the other
with galls.                             '                     •¦
    We have said enough concerning the general principles
of tanning, so as to throw a light upon what relates to the
plants that can be made use of in it.
    There is abundance of these plants in our country, and
eight new methods of preparing leather with them have
been discovered.       They have been treated of in a memoir
that was read before the academy on the 5th of last De
cember. The author of this memoir, and the maker of
these new sorts of leather, is M. Klein, a native of Nauen.
He requested I should show him all the plants that 1
thought fit for tanning.        I have mentioned the names of
these plants to the academy, and specified their properties.
They are all indigenous plants, very common and abundant,
 and which have been heretofore considered as noxious weeds,
 as the utility of them was not known ; and accordingly,
 their being used in tanning will not be in the least hurtful
 to private ceconomy. M. Klein has collected a considerable
 quantity of these species of plants ; and among the eight
 aorts of leather that have been made with them there is very
 fine Cordovan prepared without sumach, and two sorts of
 «alf-skin, tanned only with leaves of trees.
     These coriaceous plants grow in almost all deep places
 and marshy grounds ; there are some of them found also
 in sandy soil, on hills, and in woods. The hay which they
 yield is the coarsest of all, and in very small quantity ; the
 cattle never touch      it,
                           except when they are starving wjth
 hunger.      Such  plants spoil good meadows. A great quan
  tity  of them is  to  be had,  particularly near lakes and large
  ponds  ;  andit   isno  exaggeration  to say that there are sixty
  species  of  them.                                         »
      It is
             very easy to discover the chemical principles*- in
  yirtue of which these plants are fit for tanning,     if one,ha»
 <a knowledge of those of sumach, galls, and different sorts
  of bark. With regard to this point, the plants mayib&.di-
  vided into two principal classes.       The principles that *are
   chiefly to be considered are found generally in all of tbem            ;
   they are of fixed, but still active, terreo-guvimy, orjemeo-
              &
   resinoso-guinmy nature. Besides these common principles,
  tome other very active ones exist in some of. these plants,
   m a    greats; or less quantity; and this  is  what constitutes

   144          On several indigenous Plants which nay
   the difference that we establish between the plants that can
   be used in tanning.                                              . >
      Those of the hrst sort have no smell, or at most a very
   weak one, but they have a very sharp and astringent taste.'
  They contain only the active and fixed principles which we
   have mentioned, or at most an inconsiderable mixture of
   oleo-inflainmable parts, which give a weak balsamic smell
  to the water distilled from them, without any sharp or styptic
  taste.    The proportion of these parts varies in the terreo-
  res-inoso-gummy substance ; but that which commonly'
  exists in the greatest part of the coriaceous plants is such,
  that, for instance, in a pound of them the terreous part*
  constitute one-third, or even one-half; and the gummy
  principle about one-fourth or one-third, and in some as
  much as one-half, while the proportion of rosin is the
  smallest of all, being only from twentv to fifty grains, or
  at most a drachm and about twenty grains.
      In the second sort of these plants we find, indeed, tils'
  above-mentioned fixed active principles, but not in the
  Same proportion, because they are mixed with other prin
  ciples both volatile and fixed, so as to constitute the smaller
  part of the whole compound.         Besides the fixed parts there
  exists in these substances an unctuous balsamic oleoso-, or
  vaporoso-spiriliwso-etheieous principle.      The volatile part*
 become soon disengaged from the rest, by the heat of the
 tanning lye, and evaporate, so that it is not at all times,
             to discover any specific remains of them in the
 fiossible
  eather.
     If we examine next what the fixed terrco-gummy or
 terreu-resinoso-gummy substance consists of, we shall ob
tain a very clear knowledge of it. cither from considering
 the manner in which it is naturally produced, or by means
of chemical experiments. This terreous matter is some
times .coarser, sometimes finer, sometimes in a greater and
Sometimes in a smaller quantity ; and it contains an oily.
Substance, or inflammable principle, attached to a light
acid, of the nature of vegetable acid, but not caustic, like
mineral acid. In analysing the fixed substance of coria
ceous plants, we get by the alembic, out of a pound mcdi-
«&1 weight, nearly the follow ing         parts, in a proportion
more    or less  different : 1. About  an ounce and two drachms
of a clear, empyreumatic, but not astringent phlegm ; 2.
About two ounces and live drachms of an acid yellowish li
quor ; 3. An ounce and somewhat more than six drachms
«f an empyreumatic oil. The caput mortunm often con
                                                           stitutes

               v • SeAte as a Substitute for Odk Bark*           145
  stitiites one<   half, or eren more, and sometimes contains a
  portion of     fixed   alkaline salt; In dry frait3, juices, and
  bulbous roots, this proportion suffers some exceptions.          It
  is easy to conceive that the knowledge of these component
  parts * of their respective quantities, and of their properties,
  which are well known to chemists, may lead to that of'              >
 their effects, and of the manner in which they produce
 them.      We shall be able then to distinguish a false tanning
 plant from a real one, or to lay aside such as are too weak
 for that 'purpose. There arc some, for example, that are:
 much fitter for giving a fine dye to leather than for tanning-
 tori.  -:.¦¦'..                             .   .           :
                                                                •
                                                                   7:
     Nor is it difficult j after what we have said concerning
 the principles contained in the plants, to form an idea 0%
their action upon skins, properly cleansed and maceratedt:
 The skins hcing left steeping ima decoction of these plants,
 or merely along with the coarse dust of them, undergo a
 change in the tissue of their parts, whereby they become
leather; In this operation the soluble and active parts of-
 the vegetables arc separated from the coarse mass, with the
 help of air, evaporating moisture* water, work, and va
 rious degrees of heat.          They remove imperceptibly from
 each other, and extend in every direction in a very gentle
 manner, which renders them fit for softly penetrating the
 substance of the skins, and producing gradually an alters
ation in them. It is easy to comprehend the effects which,
in such a case* a gentle acid is capable of producing, when
 dissolved* mixed, and put in action with other particles
 highly volatile, oleoso-eth'ereous,       and of great mobility.
The skins are penetrated with these particles, and with -
those which we have called tcrreo-resino-gummv,          as if with
a sort' of balsam, and are thereby condensed into leather.
 Hut as it is not our intention to enlarge upon the theory of
tannine, we shall confine ourselves to our object, which is
the indication of tanning plants, and shall mention another ;
property of them, whereby they arc plainly distinguishable :
frfim all others. This property occurs in- their dust, or hi-
a decoction of them, when -mixed with copperas              (vitriol-
                      '
demdW):;::"'
    Take then these plants, and reduce them into dust, which-
ydu will 'throw1 into a solution of copperas ; or put some"
copperas into an infusion or decoction of the plants which -
has been previously filtrated. The colour produced by thi**-
mlxtitreis sometimes reddish or of a dark red, and some-. -
time's blue or black.         The- cause of this phenomenon i^
known t<> chemists, who know also how to make these
     Vol. XVII. No. 66.               K                  decoction

 146          On several indigenous     Plants which viay
 decoctions or infusions transparent, and to make the colours
 disappear, by pouring into them, drop by drop, a sufficient
 quantity of oil of vitriol.
    The properties of these plants being thus sufficiently as
 certained, and there being the greatest plenty of them in
 the country, it remains now for the connoisseurs to extend
 the use of them, and to apply (hem further to the advantage
 of our national manufactures.
 A List of I he Plants    that have leen used in the Experiments
                             on 'Panning,
    The number of plants       fit for tanning is much greater than
 tha;  of those in the following list ; and it has been observed
 that, if they be gathered at proper seasons, thev can be used
 for the preparing of all sorts of skins, both coarse and fine.
 The best of them are such as have the greatest quantity of
a coarse, astringent, and acid substance.            They are also
 the fitter for penetrating the skinsy in proportion as they
 contain a greater portion of aromatic and spirituous parts,
and are possessed of an essential ethereous oil. On the
 contrary ^ the inferior species of them are those whose sub
 stance is principally composed of fat or mucilaginous parts>
 which do not make so strong an impression on the skins,
 and can scarce serve for tanning the most tender ones.
    Salicaria vulgaris purpurea, Joliis ollongis.           Tourn.
 Instit. 253. Lysimachia spicata purpurea, forte Plinio.
 C. B. pin. 246. Purple-flowered loosestrife.
    Ulmaria; Clus. Hist. 198. I. B. in. 488. Regina prati.
 Dodon. Pempt. 57. Queen of the meadows.
    Comarum ; Linn.Gen.pl. ed. 5. 563. Cjuinquefoliurn
pa lustre rribrum. C. B. pin. 326. Red marsh cinquefoil,
    Filix ramosa major, pinnulis obtusis, nan dentatis. C.
B. pin. 357' f ilix fuemina ofiic. et Dodon. Pempt. 462.
 Common brackens, or female fem.
    Filix von ramosa, dentata. C. B. pin. 358. Filix mas
•offic. et Dodon. Pempt. 402.          Common male fern.
    Filix palustris maxima. C.B. Prodr. 150.           Water-fern.
    —¦— was acu/eata, major et minor. C. B. Prodr. 151.
    Persic-aria salicis folio, polamogeton angustij'olium dicta.
Raj. Hitit. 184.     Arsmart.
    Persiearia arida Jungomanni.           Water knot-grass.
    Bisiorta major, radice minus vel mugis inturta. C. B<
¦pin. 1<)2.    Snake-weed.
    Tormentilla sylvestris. C.B. pin. 326. Wild tormentil.
    Pimpinella sanguisorba major. C. B. pin. T60.             Large
wild pimpernel.
                                                     Caryophyllata

                serve as a Substitute for Oak    Bark,         147
     Caryophyllata vulgaris. C. B. pin. 321. Common avens,
 or herb bennet.
 .   Caryophyllata      aquatica, nutante flare.  C. B. pin. 321.
 Water    averis.
     Anserina    offlc. argentea.   Dod. Pempt.    60G.  et Poten-
 tilla. I. B.  II.   398. Goose-grass.
     Cjuinquefolium majus repens. C. B. pin. 325. Large
 cinquefoil.
     yuinquefolium minus repens luteum. C. B. pin. 325.
 Spring cinquefoil.
     Cjuinqueiblium folio argenteo. C. Bi pin. 325. Satin
 cinquefoil.
     Horminum pratense,foliis serratis. C»B. pin. 238* Clary.
     Agrimonia      offic.  Agrimony.
     Equisetum       arvense, longioribus setis.  d   B. pin.   16.
 Horse-tail.
     Equisetum      palustre, longioribus setis. C. B. pin.     15,
 Marsh horse-tail.
     Alchcmilla vulgaris.      C. B. pin. 319. Common lady's
 mantlet
     Muscus pulmonarius, sive Pulmonaria offic. Lob. Ic.
 p. 248. Pulmonaria arborea, Muscus quernus*            Oak moss.
     Lysimachia lutea major, quce Dioscoridis. C. B. pin.
 245. Yellow wood-loosestrife.
     Vaccinium ; Rivini. Vilis id(ea,foliis oldongis crenatis,
fructu nigricante. C. B. pin. 470. Black-'worts — in Irish
 Fraochan.
     Vaccinium foliis buxi, sempervirens,           baccis  nibris.
 Rup. flor. Gen. p» 52.        Red bilberry.
     Rubus vulgaris, s. fructu nigro. C. B. pin. 479- Com
 mon bramble.
     Rubus repens, fructu ccesio. C. B. pin. 479. Dew
 berry.
     Fragaria vulgaris. C.B. pin. 326. Strawberry.
     Filipendula; I. B. II. 189. Saxifraga rubra off. Red
 Saxifrage.
     Pervinna; Tournefort. Vinca pervinca offic. Clematis
 daphnoides major, fiore cteruleo. I. B. II. 132.             Peri-
 winckle.
     Sparganium ramosum et non ramosum. C.B. pin. 115.
 Burn -reed.
 •
     Filago; seu Iwrba impia. Dodon. Pempt. 66. Common
 cudweed.
     Gnaphalium         montamtm   Jtore rotundiore et longiore.
 Tourn. Inst. -133.        Mountain cudweed.
                                   K 2                   Geranium

1"4S    Plants which may serve as    a Substitute for Oak Bark.
    Geranium sanguincum maxima Jiore. C. B. pin. itg.
Bloody crane's bill.
                  batrachoides   maximum,      minus laciniatun^
folio aconiti.   I. B.  in. 477-    Meadow    crane's-bill.
    Plantago latijblia incana. C. B; pin. 18&. Broad-leaved
plantain.
    *j        angustifoltu major et minor. C. B. pin. 189. Nar
row-leaved plantain, both great and small.
    ^         latijblia simiata. C. B. pin. I89. All sorts o£
plantain.
    Hypericum qffic. et Mat thiol, vulgar e. C. B. pin. 270.
Common St. John's wort.
    It is proper to observe in this place, tlrat only the herbs in
flower, or even the flowers alone, of the preceding plants
are to be used.      Some of them are more weak than others,
and accordingly must be used in a different way.             But as
to the following ones, their leaves and branches, as likewise
the unripe fruits of them, the seeds, and even the roots of
some of them, are all equally fit for tanning.
    Frondes vit'ts vinifercc. The vine.
    Prunus sylvestris. Wild plum-tree ; its bark and un
ripe fruit.
 .. Sallx   vulgaris alia arlorescens. Common white wil
low ; its leaves and twigs.
              caprea rolundijblia.    Common willow ; its leaves^
bark, twigs.
    Rosa; sylvestris, variorum colorum.          Wild rose-bush;
its leaves.
    Fagus.     Beech.     Bark and leaves.
    Carpinus.       Horse-beech.     Bark and leaves.
    Ouercus.      All sorts of oak. Leaves.
    Betula.     Birch-tree.    Bark and leaves.
    A Inns. Alder. Leaves.
    Mespilus ; species sylvestris vulgaris.         Wild medlar.
 Leaves, twigs, unripe fruit.
    Ledum rvsmarinijvlio.          Wild rosemary.
     Cornus sylvestris       masi    Wild cornel tree. Leaves,
 !\vi;ts, stones.
    Acctosa pratensis.       Sorrel.   Root.    Seed.
    Lapathum maximum aqnaticum.                Large water-dock.
 Root, leaved, seed.
    Lapathum Julio acuta piano. C. B. pin. 115.               Sharp-
 pointe.il dock. Root, leaves, seed.
     Iris talustr'a liUea. Aeorus adultcrinus. C. B. pin. 34.
                                                           Nymphaea

                Process   for   Dyeing Nankeen Colour.                                  149
   "Nymphsea lutea major.            C. B. pin.          103.           Yellow water-
lily. Root.
               alia major.               C. B. pin.       193.           White ditto.
Boot.
XXII. Process for Dyeing          Nankeen Colour.              By       Mr. RiCHAnn
                                BltEWER.*
IVTix.     much sheep's dung in clear water as will make it
           as
appear     the colour of grass, and dissolve in clear water
          of
one pound of best white soap for every ten pounds of
cotton-yarn, or in that proportion for a greater or lesser
quantity.
  Observe : — The tubs, boards, and poles, that are used In
the following operations must be made of deal; the boiling-
pan of either iron or copper.
                           First Operation.
   Pour the soap liquor prepared as above into the boiling-
pan ; strain the dung liquor through a sieve ; add as much
thereof to the soap liquor in the pan as will be sufficient to
boil the yarn, intended to be dyed, for five hours.     When
the liquors are well mixed in the pan, enter the yarn, light
the fire under the pan, and bring the liquor to boil in about
two hours, observing to increase the heat regularly during
that period.   Continue it boiling for three hours, then take
the yarn out of the pan, wash it, wring                     iir
                                                               it it,
                                              and hang                                it
a shed on poles to dry.   When dry, take       into   stove or                a
other room where there       fire
                                is let
                                     a   "hang there until
                                           ;        it                                     it
Ke thoroughly dry,
   N. B. The cotton yarn, when in the shed, should not
be exposed either to the rain or sun            :  will be un
                                                     if   it     is,    it
equally coloured when dyed.
                           Second        Operation.
   In this operation use only one half of the spap that was
used in the last, and as much dung liquor (strained as be
fore directed) as will be sufficient to cover the cotton yarn,
ivhen in the pan, about two inches.         When these liquors
are well mixed     in the  pan,  enter the   yarn, light the fire,
and bring   the liquor  to  boil in about  one   hour   then take         ;
jhe yarn   out, wring      without
                          it        washing,   and hang    to dry               it
as   in the former operation.
      *   From the Transactions of   the   Dublin   Society,     vol.   i.    part   i.
                                     K     3                                          Third

] 50                Process        for    Dyeing Nankeen Colour.
                                        Third Operation.
     This operation              the same as the second in every respect.
                                        Fourth Operation,
  For everv ten pounds of yarn make a clear lye from halt"
a pound ot pot or pearl ashes. Pour the lye into the boil
ing-pan, and add as much clear water as will be sufficient
to boil the yarn for two hours ; then enter the yarn, light
the fire, and bring it to boil in about an hour.     Continue
U boiling about an hour, then take the yarn out, wash it
very well in clear water, wring       and hang    to dry asit,             it                 in
former operations.
   N. B. This operation        to cleanse the yarn from any
                                                  is
qleaginous matter that may remain in         after boiling        it                          in
the soap and dung liquors.
                                         Fifth Operation.
     Toevery gallon of iron liquor* add half     pound of rud          a
dle or red chalk (the last the best) well pulverized.
   Mix them well together, and let the liquor stand four
vhours, in order that the heavy particles may subside    then                        ;
 pour the clear liquor into the boiling-pan, and bring      to                           it
 such     degree of heat as
          a                  person can well bear his hand in
                                              a
it;   divide the yarn into small parcels, about five hanks in
 each   ;soak each parcel or handful very well      the above                 in
jiquor, wring   and lay      it,
                           down on       clean deal board.
                                                  it             a
When all the yarn    handed through    the liquor, the last
                                        is
handful must be taken up and soaked in the liquor    second                          a
time, and everv other handful in succession till the whole
is gone through  then lay the yarn down
                             5                tub, wherein           in   a
there must be put sufficient quantity of lye made from pot
                                   a
or pearl ashes, as will cover   about six inches.  itLet     lie                         it
in this state about two hours, then hand       over in the lye,      it
wring         it,
            and lay   down on    clear board.
                                   it            If does not
                                                       a                        it
appear sufficiently deep in colour, this operation must be
repeated till    has acquired
                        it       sufficient degree of darkness
                                                       a
of colour this done^:       must be hung to dry as
                                             it          former                    in
operations,
   N. B. Any degree of red or yellow hue mav be given
to the yarn              by
                  increasing or diminishing jhe quantity of
ruddle or red chalk,
                                      Sixth Operation.
       For    every ten            pounds of yam make             a       lye from half        a,
          ,
                    * Iron liquor        is   what the linen printers use.
                                                                                         pound

              On the Betizoic Acid hi the Urine                  of Horses.              151
pound of pot or pearl ashes; pour the clear lye into the.
boiling-pan; add a sufficient quantity of water thereto that,
will cover the yarn about four inches ; light the fire, and
enter the yarn, when the liquor is a little warm ; observe
to keep it constantly under the liquor for two hours ; in
crease the heat regularly till it come to a scald ; then take
the yam out, wash              it,
                        and hang     to dry as in former oper
                                                    it
rations.
                   Seventh Operation.
     Make sour liquor of oil of vitriol and water the de-
               a                                                                ;
      of acidity may be little less than the juice of lemons
                                 a                                                           ;
f;ree
  ay the yarn
                     jn
                  for about an hour, then take
                     it                             out, wash              it
it       well and wring       give       second washing and
                                                    it
                                        a it
     very                                                a
wringing, and lay on board.          is
                          it
   N. JB. This operation                  ;
                            to dissolve the metallic particles,
and remove the ferruginous matter that remains on the sur-v.
face of the thread after the fifth opertion.
                               Eighth Operation.
     For     every ten pounds     of yarn dissolve
                                            one pound of best
white soap in clear water, and add as much water to this
liquor in your boiling-pan as will be sufficient to boil the
      for two hours.   When these liquors arc well mixed
!'aru
 ight the fire, enter the yarn, and bring the liquor to boil
in about an hour. Continue           boiling slowly an hour;
                                                   it
take    out, wash
       it            in clear water very well, and hang
                          it                                to'"                        it
dry as in former operations    when dry    :     ready tor the  it   is
weaver.
   N. B.     appears to me, from experiments that
                It                                     have                         I
made, that less than four operations in the preparation of
the yarn will not be sufficient to cleanse the pores of the
fibres     of the cotton, and         render the colour permanent,
XXIII.        On the Benzoic Acid in tlie Urine                      of'   Horses.       By
                   il/. Ferdinand (jiese,                of   Berlin*.
According to the researches of Fourcroy and Vauquelin
on the urine of different graminivorous animals, the benzoic
aeid at all times forms   cpniponent part of it.
                                 a                Partly with
a view to place this beyond   doubt, and partly that
                                          a          might                      I
accurately  determine  the proportion which this substance
|>cars to the other component parts,    made the following
                                                         I
         •
             From fcherer'j Allgemeinn Journal da Clxmie,                  no, 41.
                                          K    4                                    experi-

132            On the Benzoic Acid in the Urine                      of Horses.
experiments ; but these conducted me to phenomena which
induced mc to proceed further than I had at first purposed-.'
                                           Experiment      I.
    To two pounds of fresh horse's urine          I added muri
atic   acid the specific gravity of which was as 115 to
IOC).   A weak effervescence took place, and there were
formed thick white vapours, which soon fell to the bottom
like flakes. I now continued to add muriatic acid till no
thing more was separated, and till there remained a small
excess, three ounces of acid having been employed.             The
whole   was  then placed  on  a filter; and the  precipitate, being
washed with pure water to free jt froin die urine still ad
hering to           it,
               was then dried.        amounted in weight to two
                                                   It
drams and forty-eight grains.           On being subjected to                         a
proper test,    evidently exhibited all the propeities by which
                        it
the benzoic acid      characterized
                                 is      namely,    scarcely sour
                                                       ;              a
ish taste, crystallization, complete vo'.atilitv, the disengage
ment of an acrid vapour, which occasioned pain in the breast,
and ready solution       spirit of wine.
                                      in
   Ha/ing fuljy convinced myself bv this experiment of the
abundant existence of benzoic acid in uriae,             continued        I
my researches on the urine of more horses, partly with
view of observing the difference of the proportions in                                it, a
and partlv to ascertain whether something determinate;
might not be established on this subject.
                                           Experiment      II.
   Four pount-s of urine were subjected to the same treat
ment as before. The phenomena were here different from,
those of the first experiment   for, on adding muriatic acid,
                                                   ;
ho precipitate was produced.     When the fluid was evapo
rated to    fourth,' and after the fluid had stood at rest for
                    a
some time,      observedI    small and resin-like precipitate,
                                               a
¦which, after being treated with spirit of wine, gave benzoic
arid, but iri so small    quantity that    bore no proportioi;
                                           a                    it
to that
grains.
        of the. first experiment,  for  amounted  onlv to five
                                                           it
                                                                  ...
¦      •   '
                             #             Experiment      III,
   Eight pounds of horse's urine bcinn evaporated"
                                                        to the
consistence of syrup, muriatic acid was then added but                            ;
no precipitation ensued.     The fluid was then brought to
complete dryness and spirit of wine being poured over
                                 ;                                                    it,
when     had stood sftrac time the undissolved residuum wasr
           it
Separated               by
               the filter, and the liquor evaporated.      ob                     I
tained    very ,asmall quantity of crystallized benzoic   acid',
                                                                                  which,

            On the Benzoic Acid in the Urine    of Horses.     1 53
  which,    as none appeared by pouring muriatic acid into tht?
  urine evaporated to the consistence of syrup, must have ex
  isted in the urine in a free state. The weight of it amounted
  to fifteen grains.
                          Experiment IV.
      Five pounds of urine were evaporated to dryness, and a
  fourth part of alcohol being added, the whole was exposed
  to heat.     The alcohol, which after some time had acquired
  a dark colour, was again filtered and evaporated.      No traces
  of benzoic acid, however, were perceptible.
                           Experiment    V.
      Of four pounds of urine a small part was subjected to
  previous propf by muriatic acid : a nebulous precipitate im
  mediately took place, but on the addition of more muriatic
  acid it again disappeared.    The remaining urine not decom
  posed with muriatic acid I evaporated to the consistence of
  syrup, by which means a great quantity of pure calcareous
  earth was separated ; to the discovery of which I was con
  ducted hy dissolving the residuum in muriatic acjd, which
   was very easily done, and without effervescence.        Having
   dropped sulphuric acid into this solution, sulphate of lime
   was immediately formed.        The urine separated from the
  calcareous earth was decomposed by sulphuric acid : there
   v as formed a perceptible precipitate, which being digested
   with alcohol had lost none of its weight, and which was
   merely sulnhate of lime.      The precipitate then, first pro
   duced in the unevaporated urine by muriatic acid, did not
   by any means arise frpm' benzoic acid.
      It appears from these experiments^ that in consequence
   cf the great difference observed in them it is not possible
   to determine the proportions of the component parts of the
   urine.
      In the many experiments which I made with the urine
   of different horses, I always found deviations in those which
   contanicd benzoic acid. In general, I found none of this
   acid ; in some cases, but very seldom, I found a considera
   ble quantity of it ; calcareous earth I found only once.
      Whence then arises this great difference? The answer
   to this question will, perhaps, make us better acquainted
   with the cause of these differences.        To accomplish this
   end, it was, in the first place,' necessary to examine into the
   origin of this acid, whether it was formed from the vege
   tables on which the horses fed, and conveyed into the urine,
-
   sr whether it \\jas created in the animal body by the mutual
                                                            action

    1M       On tlw Benzoic Acid in the Urine  of Horses.
   action of its original elements. I therefore first undertook
   to examine the usual food of these animals, hay and oats.
   Hay contains a large quantity of a grass with a very agreea
   ble smell, the anthoxantlutm odoratum Linn. Fourcroy and
   Vauquelin had already suspected that this plant contained
   benzoic acid : this and other considerations confirmed me
  in the same opinion, and gave me reason to hope that I
   bhould find in it the source of the benzoic acid,
                            Experiment   I,
      A quantity of this grass was put into a very dry retort
  connected with a balneum mariae, and, being placed in a-
   sand-bath, was exposed to such a degree of heat that the
  benzoic acid contained in it could be sublimated; but after
  the fire had been maintained a considerable time, no traces
  of it  were observed.
                           Experiment   II,
      One part of this grass was boiled with twelve parts of
  Jime water. The decoction had a verv agreeable smell : it
  was thijn brought to the consistence ot syrup ; and muriatic
  acid being added, a precipitate was produced, which how
  ever on being tried exhibited none of the properties of ben
  zoic acid.
                           Experiment  III,
     An extract prepared from a quantity of this grass had a
 very strong smell, very much like that of the trijblium me~
 filotvm.      This extract, being digested. some time in spirit
 of wine, had a very agreeable smell. It was then exposed
 to a slow evaporation, after which it exhibited no percepti
 ble traces of benzoic acid.
     It results from these experiments, made in different ways,
 that the benzoic acid does not originate from the hay,
     It now remained for me to examine oats : I therefore sub
jected it to the same process, but could discover no signs
 of benzoic acid.
     Being confident that I had pursued the right method in
 these experiments, I thought myself authorized to conclude
 with certainty that I roust look for the origin of the benzoic
acid in the animal body itself. The following experiments
will serve as a confirmation of this idea :
     I examined the urine of a hofse which had been fed on
the same food as that given to those the urine of which
produced a large quantity of benzoic acid.          This urine,
however, produced very little.       Had the benzoic acid been
indebted for it* origin to the food, the urine of horses fed
                                                             on

           On the Benzoic Acid in the Urine    of Horses.    155
On the same fodder must have produced a like quantity          of
benzoic acid ; which, after repeated experiments, was not
found to be the case. A question now arises, In what state
of the animal is this acid formed in the body ? iri the sound
or diseased state f I natter myself that I am able to answer
this question, as I had an opportunity of ascertaining, with
great correctness, the state of the horses the urine ot which
 I examined. The result was, that a horse whose urine gave
a great deal of benzoic acid had been long diseased, and
 that the horse whose urine gave very little or no benzoic
acid was perfectly sound. But what is the disease during
which benzoic acid is produced ? This question is the most
important and most difficult.      The determination of it is of
great importance to the physiologist, as it calls his attention
fowards the cause of the formation of this acid ; and is
worthy the notice of the chemist also, as it holds forth an in
 ducement for him to examine under what circumstances he
 can derive utility from this product.
     For this purpose a long series of experiments would be
necessary; but these experiments can be made only by those
 who have the care of diseased horses, that is to say, in a
 veterinary college. Hitherto I have had no opportunity of
 undertaking this labour ; I shall therefore content myself
 with collecting into one point of view the facts which seem
 to result from these experiments.
     I. The urine of horses is so very different, that nothing
 certain can be determined in regard to the quantity of ben
 zoic acid which it contains.
     II. The following five cases, however, occur in this re
 spect in the preceding experiments : — 1st, There are some
 kinds of urine in which at first a large quantity of benzoic
 acid is found neutralized with soda : 2d, In which a very
 small quantity of benzoate of soda exists : 3d, In which
 the same quantity is found in the free state : 4th, In which
 pone is to be found : and, 5th, In which only a large quan
  tity of pure calcareous earth is observed.
     III. The difference of urine in regard to the benzoic acid
  it contains, does not arise from the food of the horses, but
  from the various states in which thej? animals may be by
  derangements in their functions.
      IV. The state of the animal in which a quantity of ben
  zoic acid is produced, is worthy of further examination.
                      Remark   ly M.  Scherer.
      It is always very difficult in researches of this kind to
  obtain certain results. I think there is great reason to be
                                                            lieve

 i 56"      On some Properties      of the  Phosphoric Acid
lieve that benzoic acid is to be found in the urine of cverv
sound horse j but the principal point is the time when it is
.voided.     It is well known that ia the urina cruda of man
.verv little urc is found ; nay, it often seems to be entirely
wanting.       On the other hand, it is always found in the
firina cocta of persons who are in a sound condition.           Mav
pot the case be the same with animals ? Is it not therefore
more than probabie that the concocted urine ©f sound horses
always contains benzoic acid, when no trace of it is to be
found in the crude urine of the same animals? This dif-
Jerence is of so much importance that it ought not to be
entirely overlooked.                                           •»!»#"«;
XXIV.      Qn some Properties of the Phosphoric Acid not yet
    sufficiently known. By M. J. F. Gueusen, Apothecary of
    Kiel*.
                I.  Susceptibility   of crystallization.
 J^HE»property which the phosphoric acid possesses of being
transformed into a vitreous mass by exposure to heat, was
one of its characteristic signs first known : this was not the
Case, however, with its susceptibility of crystallization.          It
is not improbable that the method long employed of ob
taining it from urine and bones, and the continued fusion
of it to free it from the sulphurous acid, may have pre
vented chemists from knowing it in that state of concenr
tration in which it shoots into crystals.
    De Lassonne and Cornette t, however, speak of a phos
phoric acid which was in the ratio of 19:8 to water, and
which being mixed in the proportion of two parts to one
part of water, formed after cooling a gelatinous kind of
nia=s.     This phenomenon, however, while the phosphoric
acid was so much diluted, seems to have arisen rather from
a mixture of earthy matter than from the property of the
acid to crystallize.
    (uittlingl is undoubtedly the first chemist who observed
this property of the.. phosphoric acid, which he did acci~?
dentally, on having suffered phosphorus to stand for threu
months in a cellar in a class filled with carbonic acid: at
the end of this period he found the sides of the glass co-
   * From Scherer's Allgemeines
                                 "Journal der Cbemir, no. 44..
   + Mem. de 1'Acad. de Paris, 1780 ; and Crcll's Chem. Annals, 17S6,
vol. ii.
            " Taschenbuch fur das jalrr, 1797.
   \ Gottling's
¦ *      .                                                     vcred

                    not yet sufficiently known.              157
Vered    with sharp -pointed crystals, which on closer examina
tion were found to consist of pure phosphoric acid.
    No further observations, however, as far as I know, were
made on this property of tire phosphoric acid ; nor was the
crystallization of it in larger quantities ever remarked.
    Having been frequently employed in preparing phos
phoric' acid from phosphorus, I had an opportunity to ob-
scrvfe that it possessed the following properties :
    1st; Four ounces of phosphoric acid, perfectly free from
nitric, muriatic, and sulphuric acid, as appeared on trying
it with a solution of silver, caustic lime, and a solution of
barytes, and the specific gravity of which, at the tempera-'
ture of 12° Reaumur, was to that of distilled water as 2*1,
shot up, by rest, into feather-like crystals in the course of
a few weeks, during which time the temperature of tin at>
mosphere varied between + 2* and -*>
    This acid, having remained several days in a temperature
which varied from — 2° to — 8°, it curdled into an- opakey
thick, tallow-like mass, in which no regular crystallization
was any more observed.
    To convince myself of the absence of siliceous earth,
 which might have been taken up by the acid in consequence
 of its continual contact with the glass, and which might
have produced this curdling,         I toolk some of the curdled
 acid, by means of a glass rod, from the glass in which it
 was contained, and placed it on my hand, where by the
 heat it was immediately transformed into a fluid perfectly
 transparent.
    On diluting it with two parts of distilled water, and sa
 turating it with carbonate of potash and of soda, no earthy
 precipitate was formed : I observed also, that the glass in
 which the acid had been kept showed no signs of having
 been in the least attacked. These %verc sufficient proofs that
  the acid was not rendered impure by silicrous'carth.
     fid. An ounce of crystallized acid, which by heat had
 been brought again to a fluid state, was exposed in a small
 glass tube to the temperature of — 3(5° Reaumur, produced
 by a mixture of equal parts of snow and muriate of lime. At
 the end of 15 minutes the mixture was taken from this cx,-
  posure to cold, as fluid as it was before the experiment : the
  same acid in the course of some days, in the temperature
  of — 2°, returned to the same tallow-like consistence.
     It appeared to me to result from this experiment, that
  the crystallization of the phosphoric acid is not produced
  by a low temperature alone, but chiefly by rest.
     This conjecture I found fully confirmed by several other
                                                        quantities

158               On some Properties   of the Phosphoric Acid
quantities of phosphoric acid of from 8 to 1 2 ounces, which
1 was obliged to prepare during the course of the last sum
mer, and which crystallized, though more slowly than in
winter, in a temperature of from 10° to 16° of Reaumur.
   The whole mass of acid generally curdles into tallow-likfc
lumps, which exhibit signs of crystallization only at the
Surface.    I have, however, been able several times to obtain
the quantity of six ounces in needle-like crystals, which re
sembled the acid of sugary and which remained unaltered
during the hottest days of summer.
   3d. Acid of a less specific gravity I was not able to make
crystallize} but by the addition of more water it curdled in
the course of some time into a thick irregular mass.
   It thence appears, that to make phosphoric acid crystal
lize, it requires besides rest a degree of concentration, which,
nccording to its specific gravity, must be as 2 to 1 of distilled
water.
II. It      does not appear   to liave been yet proved, whether phos
   phoric acid produces         or not a precipitate in a solution of
   nitrate of silver.
    It             in some Elements of Chemistry* that ni
           is asserted
trate            is decomposed, and suffers the phosphate of
           of silver
silver produced to be separated from it as a white precipitate*
   Others         f
            refer to the experiments of Margraffj, who, by
means of an acid prepared from salt of urine, precipitated
silver dissolved in nitrous acid in the form ot white soft
lumps.     Morveau § asserts also, that silver is precipitated
from its solution in nitrous acid by phosphoric acid.
   Lavoisier    as far as
                        ||,know,
                              I      the only person who has
                                            is
denied this precipitation    and Morveau wonders how La
                                ;
voisier could assert that no precipitate    formed* The opi
                                                 is
nion of so celebrated an observer, however, was of so much
weight, that was unwilling to entertain any doubt on this
                      I
subject without further proof.
 I   therefore dissolved four gros of the crystals of nitrate of
silver in    sufficient quantity of distilled water, and two
                  a
gros of concentrated phosphoric acid prepared             by
                                                     nitric acid
and phosphorus were added.
   At first,   quantity of small crystals which had
                      a                                  perfecta
  "* Hcrrmtadt's
                    Experiment*! Chemic, part iii. p. 115.
  +      Gren'sHandbuch Her Chemic, stcond edit, part ii. p. 68.
                                                            1
J     jVlargratf's Chemical Works, part    p. 107.
                                            i.
  §   On the Acid Silts decomposed      Bourguet, vol. ii. p. Si,
                                       by                      2
 I    Lavoisier's Chemical Works, translated into German        byWeigel,
vol. ii.    p.   +18.
                                                          rcgemblance

                    not yet sufficiently known.               45|
resemblance to nitrate of silver fell to the bottom, and
which, by a proper mixture of concentrated acid, and the
addition of a little water, was again dissolved.
    This precipitation of crystals before the phosphoric acid
was diluted may be easily explained by this circumstance,
that the concentrated acid, which had the appearance of
thick syrup, greedily attracted some of the solvent from the
nitrate of silver, by which means a part of the nitrate of
silver was necessarily obliged to crystallize ; as is the case
in all saline solutions when deprived of their aqueous prin
ciples by the addition of other bodies.
     As no precipitate was produced by a proper mixture of
phosphoric acid with a solution of nitrate of silver, I am of
opinion that the assertion of Lavoisier may be confirmed ;
namely, that nothing was separated from a mixture of phos
 phoric acid and nitrate of silver.
     To obtain more certainty on this subject, I prepared a
 small quantity of phosphate of silver by precipitating a so
 lution of silver with phosphate of soda, one part of which
 I mixed with nitric acid, and the other with diluted phos
 phoric acid.     In both cases the phosphate of silver was
 completely dissolved.
     If a decomposition therefore should take place in a mix
 ture of phosphoric acid with a solution of nitrate of silver,
 enough of free acid will still remain to prevent the precipi
 tation of the phosphate of silver.
     It however appears from the following experiments that
 such a decomposition is not probable.
     Two gros of nitrate of silver dissolved in a sufficient
  quantity of distilled water, were mixed with one gros- of
  concentrated phosphoric acid, and the clear solution was
  subjected to slow distillation over a lamp.
     The matter which passed over had not the least taste of
  acid, even when the degree of the heat was increased by
 enlarging the flame of the lamp. As soon as the formation
 of small crystals was observed in the retort, I interrupted
 the distillation, and left the mixture at rest to cool.
     At the end of several hours a great many crystals of ni
  trate of silver had shot up, which when dried gave nearly
  the same weight again.       After repeated solution and slow
  crystallization, all the properties of nitrate of silver were
                          **
  observed.
     The fluid which remained over       the crystals in the retort
  had an exceedingly sour taste, which was perceptibly that
 of the phosphoric acid : it left on the tongue, however, a
                                                           metallic
                     5

•166            dn   some Properties    of (he Phosphoric Acid
metallic savour, and tinged the skin black        but the latter"
property does not belong to phosphate of silver.
   By rest a considerable quantity of nitrate of silver still
crystallized, but the metallic savour was not yet entirely
lost.
   More crystals continued to appear by spontaneous eva-
poratiori, in consequence of which the metallic savour be
came Still less perceptible : but as the crystals possessed all
the properties of nitrate of Silver, I considered all further
examination of the supernatant acid as superfluous, as it
could be nothing else than phosphoric acid.
III. A   doubt similar to that in regard to the question,
  Whether solution of silver is decomposed P arises in regard
  to that, Wlietlier a solution of muriate of barytes gives a
  precipitate by mixture with phosphoric acid ?
    Morveau poured phosphoric acid into a solution of mu
riate of barytes, and obtained a precipitate of phosphate of
barytes *.
    Gren    f
            found it confirmed, by his own experiments, that
the phosphoric acid decomposes muriate of barytes by sim
ple affinity.
    As phosphate of barytes is so easily dissolved by free acid,
I was of opinion that this assertion of that chemist, how
ever respectable,    was not to be admitted without further
examination.
    To ascertain the truth of my conjectures, I dissolved in
distilled water two gros of perfectly pure muriate of barytes;
and having mixed it with one gros of concentrated phos
phoric acid which had been before somewhat diluted in di
stilled water, no trace of precipitate appeared*
   A repetition of this experiment several times with the
same and larger quantities of these substances,      confirmed
the observation, that no precipitate is formed by a mixture
of pure phosphoric acid with a solution of pure muriate of
barytes.
   As in every case when a very small quantity of phospho
ric acid was dropped, a very perceptible taste of this acid
was observed,     this phenomenon seemed to show that no
decomposition of the muriate of barytes had taken place.
   To ascertain this, however, beyond a doubt, I mixed the
solution of two gros of muriate of barytes with one gros of
       * Morveau ut supr?     ; and   Macquer's Chcm. Diet, part iv.
       f   Handbuch    dei Cticmie,   vol.   ii.   p.   304.
                                                               phosphoric

                   hot yet sufficiently known.                   16*1
phosphoric acid, diluted the mixture with distilled water,
and exposed      it to distillation over a lamp.
    The fluid which passed over had not the smallest taste of
acid, and. produced no action on lacmus paper. As soott
as crystals begau to be formed, the distillation was ended.
There were separated 45 grains of a salt which possessed
all the properties of muriate of barytes.
     By repeated distillation of the remaining acid fluid, which
had a very perceptible taste of phosphoric acid, I again ob
tained by degrees the two gros of muriate of barytes, and as
little altered as the phosphoric acid which I had employed
for tli is experiment.
     My conjecture was still further confirmed by the follow
ing experiments :
     1st. The solution of an ounce of muriate of barytes was
mixed with half an ounce of concentrated phosphoric acid,
by sufficiently diluting it with distilled water.
     2d. 1 evaporated the mixture in a glass capsule till it ap
peared dry on cooling.           At the end of the operation a great
quantity     of pungent    muriatic   vapours were disengaged.
     3d. The saline mass, which had a very acid taste, was
washed with alcohol till the fluid no longer turned lacmus
 paper red, and until the salt was entirely freed from the ad
hering acid.
     4th. The washed salt, when dissolved in distilled water,
 gave a precipitate, which when washed and dried weighed
 'JO grains.
     5th. To ascertain the nature of this precipitate, which
 had no saline taste, and which made a noise under the ttfeth
 like an earth, I boiled it with 30 grains of the carbonate of
 soda, and then edulcorated the liquor.
     6th. It dissolved completely in muriatic acid with very
 little effervescence, and when niixed with sulphuric acid
 gave an abundant precipitate.
     7th. The spirit of wine (3) which had taken up the salt
 adhering to the acid was distilled in a retort till the resi
  duum had acquired the consistence of a syrup.
     fith. The result of the distillation, when a solution of
  silver was dropped into     it,     showed traces of a   little free
  add.
     9th. The acid in the retort, which had     a   very perceptibly
  taste of phosphoric acid, was no longer impure         by  muriatic
  acid.'   It rendered lime water exceedingly turbid, and in..
  * eight amounted to three gros and thirty grains.
      10th. The saline solution (4) gave, after crystallization,
Vo*. XVU.No.        66.             L                          seven

 iti             Description   of a New Safety -Vision
 •even gros and three grains        of salt, which exhibited the samS
 phenomena        as  muriate  of   barytes.
     It appears to result from these experiments, that in eva
 porating a mixture of a solution of muriate of barytes and
 phosphoric acid, towards the end of the process, when the
 saline mass already formed is capable of bearing a greater
 degree of heat than that of boiling water, some muriate of
 barvtcs is decomposed, which can combine with a part of
 the free phosphoric acid.
    But that no proper decomposition of the muriate of
 barytes takes place by the action of the phosphoric acid,
 seems to be proved by the large quantity of undecomposed
 s"alt and pure phosphoric acid which was again obtained.
    I shall abstain from anv further inquiry whv Morveail
 and Glen obtained a precipitate by combining this salt with
 phosphoric acid: but I think I can on good grounds con
 clude, that neither of these chemists made their expert
 ments with pure phosphoric acid.
 XXV.        Description of a New Safety-Piston for Papin's
    Digester, itith the application of it to the Boilers of
     Steam- Engines, and also of an Apparatus for regulating
    the. Heal of Furnaces.          By A. N> Kdklckantz, Knight
    of   llw  Swedish    Order   of I he Polar Star, and Member of
    several Academies and Learned Societies,
                             To  Mr. Til loch.
         6in,
 XXGnr.EABLY to your desire, I have sent you the description
 of a safety-piston which I hav.- employed in Papin's di
 gesters ; the use of which I have endeavoured to render
 more exact, safer, and more convenient*.                This small ap-
   aratus, attached to the cover of the digester, consists of a
 E rass cylinder a h, fig. G. (l'late III.) in which a piston of
 the same metal, c d, moves with very little friction, in order
 that it may descend by its-own weight after it has been
 raised up, without however permitting the vapour to pass
 between it and the cylinder.           The lower part of the cvlin-
 iler communicates with the digester, and is covered bv a
 small sphere, s,s, perforated with holes, to prevent the
 matters     in a state of ebullition from entering the in-
    ¦* The                of my piston may be          in
             description                          seen    the Jourral   de
 Pby:ique,yol. hi.   p. 147. But fince tha: time 1 have made some change
in its construction.                                                1
                                                                     side

                                   for Papin's           Digester.                  163
      of                                                     The upper
             is it,
fcide           but allowing the vapour to pass.
part (a)        closed bv        small cover screwed on to
                                        a                             and     it,
perforated with          hole through which the piston-rod passes
                               a
easily. This cover serves the double purpose of guiding
the rod, and preventing               from being blown out; The
                                               it
piston-rod          furnished with
                      is                  shoulder) g, g, which serves
                                                    a
to support different weights, vvv, which can be changed at
phasure.        In the side of the cylinder there are holes, e,e^
as small as possible, placed above each other at the distance
of about line but this distance, as well as the number of
                 a         ;
them,       is matter of indifference.
                 a
   To give an idea of the effect of this small apparatus, let
us suppose the piston lowered, and loaded with any weight,
and that       fire
                 a       kindled under the boiler.
                           is                            When the va
pour has acquired sufficient elasticity to raise the weights^
the piston will ascend, and, having passed the first holej
some vapour will escape.             If this aperture be of sufficient
size for the passage of ihe quantity of vapour continually
produced, the piston will remain there stationary-, and                             in   a
state of oscillation           not,     will ascend above the second}
                                       if if
                                   ;            it
third, 8cc. hole, and,          the intensity of the lire    sufficiently
                                                                     is
strong,    above     the last, which    must   be made  larger, that, bv
giving the proper means of escape to the vapour, all acci^
dents mav be prevented.                  here evident, that though the
                                               It   is
greater   or  less    elevation   of the  piston, as well as the num»
oer of the holes open, depends on the variations and dif
ferent intensities of the fire             these variations} however}
                                                     ;
 have no influence on the interior heat, and the elasticity of
the vapour contained in the digester^ sinee their force                        is   al
ways proportioned to the weight with which the piston                                is
loaded, and Avhieh             constant. This safetv-piston seems
                                       is
likely  to  afford,    for  delicate   experiments, greater exactness;
than the usual safety-valves, with or without levers charged
with weights, hitherto employed. For, in the whole course
of the space which the c'vlindric piston passes' o'vir in as
cending, the state of the elasticity of the \apour                    the     is
same whereas, when the conical valve in common use
        ;                                                                            is
once raised up, nothing indicates whether, or how much,
the present state of ihe vapour surpasses the first effort                           it
made to open           passage. Besides} the diameter of the piston
                           a
being once known, the force of the vapour requisite for
each experiment can be easily regulated                and determined.
If we suppose, for example, that the lower surface of the
piston      -j'jth of square inch, each ounce of weight on the
            is                 a
shoulder, g, will -be equivalent to the pressure of                pound  a
on icaeh square inch of surface, an.4 so on in proportion.
                                               L    2

164   Description    of Mr. Arthur liftoff's Sleam-Valvc;
As this pressure then remains constant, the experiment
will be more determinate, and consequently more com
parative.
   The application of this piston to the boilers of steam en
gines needs no further explanation, except that, in this
case, the diameter of the piston must be considerably in
creased.   It   seems     here    to   offer   the   same      advantage    of
greater uniformity in the force of the steam, especially if
the motion of the piston be employed to regulate the fire
of the furnace, and to prevent the useless dispersion of the
vapour,- by preventing an excess of intensity in the fire;
For this purpose, the following apparatus mav be used.
Let m, n, fig. 3. be the aperture of the conduit for the cur
rent of air which maintains the combustion of the fuely
and o,p, a agister; which, by rising or falling, opens or
shuts that conduit.     If the motion of the safety piston be
combined by anv means with the register, in such a man
ner that, when the former ascends, the latter descends, so
that when the piston is at its greatest elevation the register
shall be entirely shut; it is evident, that, since the heat pro
duced depends on the access of tho air, the elasticity of the
rapour being determined by the weight of the piston, will
 not onlv remain within the bounds prescribed for            but      it,
                          is by
 will regulate itself,    preventing more air from entering
 into the furnace than     necessary to maintain its force.
 I    do not know what obstacles may occur in the applica-*
 tion of this apparatus on    large scale but
                                  a              ;seems to pro
                                                          it
 mise greater saving of fuel, since, instead of throwing out
      a
 to no purpose   a superabundant quantity of vapour,         wilf    it
 prevent its production, without expending anv considerable
 part of the force of the machine for that purpose.
      XXVI.     Description     Mr.
                                  of           Arthur Woolf's
                         Steam-Valve.
J x our last we laid before our readers an account of Mr.
 Woolf's newly invented boiler, in which we mentioned
that, besides employing safety-valves, he had introduced                     a
valve of   anew construction to regulate the quantity and
       of the steam passing from the boiler. We .-hall now
fiower
 ay before them    description of this ingenious contrivance.
                     a
   A (Plate IV.)     ispart of the main cylinder of one of
                          a
Mr. Woolf's boilers       ; the neck or outlet for the steam,
                              R
                              R
surmounted      the steam-box C, which
                by                          joined to the neck
                                                     is
                                                                      Bliby

           Description     of Mr. Arthur IVoolfs Stcam-Fuloe. 166
BB by the            flanges aa.  The top or cover of the steam-box
C, marked with      the letter J), which is well secured in its
place, has  a hole through it for the rod of the valve, so con-:
trived as to answer the purpose of a stuffing-box to make
the rod work up and down steam-tight, the stuffing being
kept in its place bv the usual means, as shown in the section.
 By means of a pin or nail,           and the two vertical pieces ee,
                                                   /',
 the piston rod        made fast to m, which
                           is                             cover of and      is
                                                                            a
joined to the hollow cylinder n,». The cover 77; tits steam-
 tight into the collar 0,0, which         made fast on the flange
                                                         is                a.                      a
The cylinder n            open
                           n    at
                               is  the  bottom, having         free   com                 a
 munication with the main cylinder A, and has three vertical
 slits, one of which,           shown in the plate *. The sum of
                                    S,   is
 the surface of all these slits or openings is equal to the area of
 the opening of tlTe collar o, 0, in which thecylinder n, n works,
 When the steam acquires            sufficient degree of elastic force
                                              a
 to raise the valve (that is, the cylinder n n with its cover wi,
and the rod       and whatever weight
                     R)                      may be loaded with, then
                                                              it
 the openings             S,
                     getting   above  the  steam-tight collar 0,0,                                     al
 lows the steam to pass into the steam-box                 The quantity     C
of steam that passes             proportioned
                                         is       to  the   elastic force
it   has acquired, and the weight with which the valve is
 loaded     and the rise of the openings
            ;                                     above the collar 0,
                                                                    S                                   o
will be in the same proportion,            Tnis valve may be loaded
in   any of the usual methods but Mr. Woolf prefers the one
                                                  ;
shown in the drawing,             which the upper part of the rod
                                          in
       joined
      is            means of
                      by           chain to      quadrant of          circle
Q R
                                              a                     a                         a
     with an arm projecting fern               as represented it,   in the
plate, and which carries         weight, Z, that may be moved near
                                         a
to or further from the centre of the quadrant, according as
the pressure of the valve          wished to be increased or dimi
                                              is
nished.       As the valve rises, the weight moves upwards in
the arch       n, giving an increased resistance to the further
                71
rising of the valve, proportioned to the greater horizontal
distance from the centre of Q, which the weight attains                   its                     by
rise       the said arch, the said distance being measured in
           in
the line Op               perpendicular from the said line Qp
                          by   a
passing     through   the   centre of the weight.         Thus,          the                  if
weight        press with
                Z            force equal to twenty pounds on the
                                    a
square inch of the aperture in 0,0 in its present position,
it   will, when        rises to the position at
                          it                              press with            ¦'>                    a
force equal to thirty pounds, and at              with      force equal
                                                                    p                 a
to forty pounds, on the square inch                  so that the rod    ;
OZ may be made to serve at the same time as an in-
                * These        openings may he covered with                 a   grating.
                                              L          3                                         dex

166     Description of         a   Portable Chamber Blast-Furnace.
ilex to the person who attends the fire, nothing more being
necessary for this purpose than to graduate the arch de
scribed by the end of the rod Q^Z.             In the fide of the
steam-box C    there   is  an  opening   N  to allow the steam to
pass from it by a pipe    or  tube  to the steam-engine, or to any
secondary boiler,   or   for. the  purpose of conveying and ap
plying it to any other     vessel  or use to which steam is appli
cable.
   Before dismissing this article, wc must beg our readers to
correct an error in printing the description of the boiler in
 pur last number, page 4 1 . The second line from the bottom
 ghould read " not joined to any of them, excepting the
 middle one, at the points," Sec.
XXVII.          Description        of a Portable          Chamber     Blast Furnace.
                           By C. R.              Aikin, Esq.
                                    To       Mr. Tilloch.
        DEAR SIR,
Dome of my chemical friends haying expressed their ap
probation of a small portable blast-furnace which my bro
ther and myself have been in the habit of using for a
Variety of experiments on a small scale ; I am induced to,
Send you a description of    in hopes that   it,
                                              may prove as
serviceable to others as     has been to us.                        It it
                                        it         particularly             is
adapted   to those who,  like  myself, can only devote    small                  a
room and      moderate share of time to these pursuits.
                a
      Dr. Lewis      in
                     his Commerce      the Arts (page 27) de
                                                     of
scribes    very powerful blast-furnace formed out of black-:
            a                                                                    a
lead pot, which
                    " has number of holes bored at small di-r
                                    a
stances      spiral lines all over
            in                                      it,
                                      from the bottom up to
such    aheight  as  the fuel  designed to reach to."
                                            is          This                         is
 let half way into another pot, which List receives the nozzle
 pf  the bellows, so that all the air sent in         distributed           is
 fhrough the spiral holes of the upper pot, and concentrated
 the heat of the fuel upon the crucible, wh'.ch     placed in the       is
 midst.
    The furnace which am eroiii? to dc-crlbe resembles very
                                   I
 closely this of Dr. Lewis; with this different e, however, that
 the air-holes are only bored through the bottom of the pot,
      this merely st'inds upon another piec'-S instead of being
  fnd
  et into it.         on this account somewhat more commo
                     It   is
 dious, and     imatr'mc not less powerful.
                 I
    Fig.     (Plate Y.)
            1,                view, and fig. 2.
                                   is   a         section of the    a
                                                         furnace,

      Description  of a Purtalle  Chamber    Blast -Furnace.    \6J
furnace.    It is composed of three parts, all made out of the
 common     thin black-lead melting-pots sold in Loudon for
 the use of the goldsmiths.        The lower piece, A, is the
 bottom of one ot these pots cut oft* so low as only to leave
a cavity of about one inch, and ground smooth, above and
 below. The outside diameter over the top is 5jr inches. The
 middle piece or fireplace, B, is a larger portion of a similar
pot with a cavity about six inches deep, and measuring 71
 inches over the top, outside diameter, and perforated with
six blast-holes at the bottom.       These two pots are all that
are essentially necessary to the furnace for most operations :
but when it is wished to heap up fuel over the top of a cru
cible contained within, and especially tq protect the eyes
from the intolerable dazzle of the fire when in full heat, an
upper pot, C, is added, of the same dimensions as the inidi
die one, and with a large side opening cut out to allow an
exit to the smoke and flame.       It has also an iron stem with
a wooden handle (an old chisel will do very well), to lift it
oft" and on.
    The bellows (which are doubje) are firmly fixed, by 3
little contrivance which will take off and on, to a heavy
stool, as is represented in the plate; and their handle should
be lengthened j to make them work easier to the hand.          To
increase their force on particular occasions, a plate of lead
may be tied on the wood of the upper flap. The nozzle is
received into a hole in the pot A, which conducts the blast
into its cavity.    From hence the air passes into the fire
place, B, through six holes, of the size of a large gimlet,
drilled at equal distances through the bottom of the pot,
and all converging in an inward direction, so that, if pro
longed, they would meet about the centre of the upper part
of the tire. The larger hole through the middle of the bot
tom of the same pot is for another purpose. Fig. 3. is a,
plan of the same, showing the distribution of these holes.
    As a stand or support tor the crucible, I have found no
method so good as to fit an earthen stopper into the bottom
of the pot B, through the large centre hole which is made
for this purpose. This keeps the crucible in its proper
place, in stirring down the coals and managing the fuel.
  These stoppers are made with great ease and expedition out
of the soft red tire-brick sold in London. A piece of this
brick, made to revolve a few times within a portion of iron or
earthenware tube, presently takes the form ot its cavity, and
comes out a very neat portion of cylinder or cone, according
 to the shape of the tube, from which the stoppers may rea
 dily be fashioned.    Fig. 4. represents one of these stoppers,
                                L4                           which

168    Description    of a Portable   Chamber   Blast -Furnace
which     is also seen  in its proper place in fig. 2. supporting a
crucible.
    As the construction of this furnace (exclusive of the bel
lows and its stool) is easy to any one at all used to these
little manual operations, 1 trust that the working chemist
will allow nie to add a few words on the method which I
have found the most convenient and ceconomieal.             Almost
any broken pot of the proper width will furnish the lower
piece A ; and often the middle and upper pieces may be
contrived out of the same refuse matter.            Dr. Lewis ad
vises a saw to cut these pots : but most saws are too thick ;
and when a little used, the teeth get rounded off, which
makes them work intolerably slow.             I have found by far
the best tool to be an old table knife (or rather two of
them) worn thin by use, and hacked and jagged as deeply as
possible by striking the edges strongly against each other.
These work well and expeditiously, and when they become
dull are again roughened by the same simple means.              The
holes may be dr-illed with a common gimlet of the largest
 size, and a little steadiness of hand will easily enable the
 operator to give them the oblique direction with sufficient
accuracy ; for much is not required. To make a smooth
 surface to the parts intended to adapt to each other, first
wear them down a little with the soft fire-brick, and then
 grind them with water on a flat free-stone (a sink-stone for
 example), and lastly make them entirely lit by rubbing one
 surface on the other.
    No luting of any kind is ever required ; so that the whole
 may be set up and taken down immediately.             Nor is it ne
 cessary    to  bind  the   pots with  metal  hoops ; for they arq
 thick enough to endure considerable blows without break
 ing; and yet 'they will bear, without cracking, to be heated
 as suddenly and intensely as possible.        In short, the black-
 lead crucible seems to be the best material that could pos
 sibly be devised for these purposes.
     The heat which this little furnace will afford is so intense,
 and so much more than would at lirst sight be expected from
 so trifling art apparatus, that it was only the accidental fusion
 of a thick piece of cast iron in it that led us to suspect its
 power.       The utmost heat which we have procured in this
 furnace has been one hundred and sixty-seven degrees of a
 Wedgwood pyrometer piece, which was withdrawn from a,
 very small Hessian crucible when actually sinking down in
 6 stale of porcellanous fusion.         A steady heat of I50°tq
 '"5
 1.55° may be usually depended on, if the fire be properly
 liianaged and the bellows woiked with vigour. This          is suf-
                                                         '
                                                             ficient

       Preparation    of Howard's Fulminating Mercury.       lfi<||
ficient for most operations in chemistry ; and the oeconomy
in time and fuel is extreme, since a furnace of the given di
mensions will very well raise to the above point of heat in
from five to ten minutes a Hessian crucible of such a dia
meter, that the average thickness of burning fuel around its
bottom is not more than one inch and a half.          A smaller
crucible will take a higher heat, but at the risk of its soften
ing and falling in by the weight of the incumbent fuel.
    Coak, or common cinders taken from the fire just when
the coal ceases to blaze, and broken into very small pieces,
with the dust sifted away, form the best fuel for the highest
heat. A li<iht spongy kind of coak, formed of a mixture of
coal and charcoal, called Davey's patent coal, also answers
extremely well.        Charcoal alone has not weight enough,
when broken so small as it must be to lie close in this little
fire-place, to withstand the force of the blast when very
violent.     A bit of lighted paper, a handful of the very
small charcoal called in London small coal, and ten or a
dozen strokes of the bellows, will kindle the fire in almost
as many seconds.
   Various little alterations and arrangements, which will
readily occur to the practical chemist, will fit this little ap
paratus for distillation with an earthen retort, heating a
gun-barrel passed through the fire, bending glass tubes, &c.
    I shall only add, that the dimensions of this furnace were
determined merely by the circumstance of having at hand
pieces of black-lead pots of this size, so that doubtless they
may be varied without any diminution, and probably with
some increase of the effect.       The same mav be said of the
number of holes ; for in another instance four appeared to
answer as well as six, — with this difference, however, that, by
long working, the melted slag of the coak will now and then
partially block up one or two of the holes ; on which ac
count perhaps the greater number is preferable.
                                I remain sincerely yours,
                                                C. R. Aikin.
Broad-strert Buildings,
    Not. to,  180 J.
XXVIII.      On the Preparation     of the Fulminating Mercury
          of Mr. Howard,      by  Mr. A. S. Bukkitt.
                          To Mr. Tilloch.
_       DEAR SIR,
-H.AVING      at  various times prepared the fulminating mer
cury   of Mr. Howard, I        was desirous to collect the gas
                                                          which

HO        Preparation    of Howard's Fulminating Mercury.
which escapes during the process, which I have done fre
quently ; but the last time I had occasion to repeat it with
more exactness than before. Should you think the result
worthy a place in vour very valuable and interesting Jour
nal, it is at your service.
   Fleet-street,                I am, dear sir, &c.
Nov. 16, 1803.                                     A. S. BURKITT.
    I  took three ounces of mercury, which I dissolved in l£
           of nitrous acid. When the solution was complete,
   poured it into a six-gallon retort, in which I had previously
found
put 1$ pound of rectified spirits of wine heated to about SO
degrees.         I then introduced the neck of the retort into a
ten-gallon carboy which had by accident a hole broken in
its side* : the mouth of the latter was inverted in an earthen
vessel containing four pints cf water (see lig. 4. Plate 111.).
In the space of three minutes the usual effervescence took
place; when a considerable quantity of gas was disengaged,
and condensed in the carboy.             In about twenty minutes
the process was complete, and the precipitate formed.               \
moved the apparatus,           and poured the liquor from the
precipitate in the retort, washed it well, and dried it upon
Jittering paper.        The produce was three ounces and one
dram of the fulminating mercury.
     I then moved the carboy, and obtained upon the surface
of the water, in the earthen vessel, four ounces of nitric
 ether.
    Not being in the habit of throwing any thing away un
til I am satisfied it cannot be turned to account, I added
one pound qf spirit of wine to the water that had washed
the ether, and, by distillation in a common sand-bath, ob
 tained from it one pint of sweet spirit of nitre.
     The preparation of the fulminating mercury is generally
 conceived to be a dangerous process, but is not at all so in
 my opinion, as the precipitate will not fulminate until it
 has been well washed.         I have prepared it very often : once
 I made nine ounces at one operation ; hut I never employ
 heat, as I add the mercury in the acid as soon as the solu
 tion is complete, which is sufficiently heated by the action
 of the acid upon the mercury, to the spirits previously
 wanned to about eighty degrees.
     *
       The fitting was completed by applying a wet rag round the netk
 pf  the retort.
                                                      XXIX,     Tenth

                           [-171      ]
     XXIX.    Tenth Communication from       Dr. Thornton,
                       To  Mr. Tilloch.
      Sir                    No, i, Hinde-strcct, Manchester-square,
,_                                       Nov. 20, 1803.
X*  kom the inclosed case you will find that the cause of
Pneumatic medicine is not abandoned by me, as has been
circulated ; nor are its virtues less effectual now, than
when I first commenced its application in the year 1792.
The inclosed case I have no doubt you will think with mo
is a very striking instance of the superior efficacy of vital air
in removing a load of disease supposed incurable, such as
seldom falls to the lot of humanity. It is published, like the
many others I have before given to the world, at the express
desire of the patient, in order to extend, as far as our weak
but anxious endeavours can avail, the blessings of this in
estimable and truly philosophic remedy ; and is brought for
ward, I solemnly assure you, by me, not for any individual
 advantage, but to rouse my medical brethren to make trial
 of similar means in cases that, appear to be adapted to its
 application, and which might otherwise remain incurable.
                 Case  of Miss Margaret Gorst.
    This amiable young lady, daughter of the Rev. Mr. Gorst,
 rector of Marton and Kirbythore, near Appleby, in the
 North of England, had naturally a most excellent state of
 health. Her eldest sister taking cold fell into a decline;
 and constantly attending upon her, and sleeping along
 with her, previous to her death, gave the first shock to her
 constitution.    Going after this upon a very hot summer's,
 day into some lead mines possessed by her father at Dufton
 Fell, she was struck with the damps ; and at the early age of
  seventeen commenced her martyrdom to disease. Her appe
 tite forsook her, she had constant pain on the left side, felt a
 continual lassitude, palpitation of the heart, and the feet to
 wards evening would frequently swell,          The dyspepsia in
  creased to that degree that all animal food was loathed, and
 when taken rejected ; and, in consequence, her support was
  obliged to consist wholly of vegetable food. Her limbs
  were cold to the touch, and appeared blue even in the midst
  of summer. Her nerves were in that depressed state, that
  the smell of a candle badly snuffed, or a nosegay introduced
  into the room, or even melted sealing-wax, would instantly
  take away her voice, so that no one could hear her.             If a
  door was suddenly opened, or from any unexpected noise,
                                                                   she

  17 2        Tenth Communication from           Dr. Thornton.
 she would tremble, and fall into a flood of tears.                Her eyes
 became sunk and inanimate.             Her colour, before extremely
 blooming, forsook her cheeks, and her whole complexion
 appeared of a mahogany colour.                Her bones were nearly
 through      her skin  frpm   emaciation,      and she was obliged to
 be   carried  in  the  arms    of  the   servant     from one room to
 another, having entirely lost all power over her limbs.                 She
 was reduced to that state of lowness, that for days together
 she would scarce notice any person, or even speak. The
 daily inquiries that were made at the house, were not whe
 ther this young lady was better, but whether she was still
 alive; and as tonic and stimulant remedies of every kind
 had been ineffectually employed by the most skilful practi
 tioners of tl)e country, all of whom had pronounced to the
 family her recovery as a thing not to be looked for, she
 was universally lamented, as a person labouring under a dis
 order that could not be removed. This melancholy state
 had existed now more than thirteen years, when her bro
 ther*, who favoured me with the particulars of this melan
choly case, from perusing the cures performed by vital and
 other airs, recorded at length in vol. i. of my Philosophy of
Medicine, as a dernier ressort applied to me for my advice ;
when I recommended the inhalation of the vital air. It
was begun September 14, 1602.                 From the journal drawn
up by the lady, I shall beg leave to make a few extracts, t
had ordered two quarts of vital air mixed with fourteen ot
fifteen of atmospheric to be inhaled daily, at two different
intervals.
                              Observations.
    "   Feel faint and languid after each time of inhaling; but
this sensation soon goes off, and then I feel refreshed, t
experience a glow, and seem as if I was lighter.
    " So pleased was I at feeling myself enlivened by this
             of vital air, that, contrary to the direction given,            I
   oubled the dose; and after the inhalation in the evening I
Suantity
was seized with the most dreadful convulsive fit, which
lasted six hours, and 1 was in consequence confined to my.
bed.      So convinced was I, however, that {his fit, a thing
I had never experienced in my life before, arose from an
overdose of the vital air, that I requested to have the pneu
matic apparatus brought to my bedside, and with difficulty
could persuade my frightened relations to let me try the
medicated air again in a more cautious manner.
    f  The amendment was by its continuance in this way sq
   t Mr. William    Gorst, winc-mcrchanr,    Nj. 14.,  Little Tower-street.
                                                                       great

                Tenth Communication from           Dr. Thornton.         \ 73
great, that it was visible to every one who noticed the altera
tion in my looks, and my increase of strength. So far from
requiring assistance, I was enabled to walk out above a mile.
Instead of living upon vegetable I could take animal loud,
which my stomach did not reject. Smells had no longer
auy effect on my voice ; so that after nine months, con
tinuing the use of the vital air, I went to Hartlepool. The
sea air continued orl the benefit ; but after six weeks ab
sence, thinking I could do without the vital air, upon my
return home 1 omitted taking the air, and was relapsing
into my former weak state : but all the bad symptoms went
off upon my resuming again the vital air, which has now
been continued with the same advantage above a twelve
 month."
           Observations     on this Case, by     Dr. Thornton.
     This almost miraculous* effect from vital air furnishes
 many curious reflections.
      1. The disoxygenalion, or want of vital air in the blood,
 was shown by the sallowness of the complexion, and blue-
 ness of the extremities; their coldness ; the torpor of the
 bowels ; want of energy in the nerves of the stomach, and
 total loss of muscular powers, without paralysis.
      2. The disappearance          gradually of all these symptoms^
 which had existed upwards of thirteen years, from the in
 halation of a superoxygenated air, proves, or seems to prove^
 in the strongest mariner the powerful influence of vital air
 on the animal oeconomv. The complexion became clear ; the
 cheek acquired its vermilion; the fingers no longer appeared
 blue ; a general warmth was diffused ; the stomach digested
 animal food ; the bowels performed their dailv office with
 out the aid of medicine (before, they used to be suffered to
 go unrelieved eight or ten days, as the mildest purgatives,
 produced always dreadful swoonings) ; the muscles ac
 quired their energy, and the nerves their influence.                     No
  other medicine was employed here but tincture of Colombo^
  which had before been long uselessly exhibited.
     * Old Dr.
                 George For<!yce used to say, speaking of the factitious airs,
 "   As to n.', lue don't perform miraclis. ' I might have slid, Nor do the
 pneumatic physician! : they record upon the accredited testimony of others
  the effects said to be felt, and by multiplying similar evidences they are
  in hopes finally of settling legitimate conclusions. They esteem it as the
  fairest plan to record what they are told, and leave to others to disprove
  or approve, by making themselves trials under somewhat similar cir
  cumstances.     They reckon this science still as in j;s infancy, and would
  wish to see it advance by the combined eflorts of many practitioners,
  friends to science and mankind.
                                                                     3. That

   174       Tenth Communication from           Dr. Thornton.
      3. That the supcroxygenated air is not an inert power, \i
  Shown hy its producing in an overdose, in a weak habit, a
  dreadful convulsive fit, which was not the case when em
  ployed afterwards in a less proportion.               I have before re
  corded the case of a lady subject to epileptic fits, which had
  ceased six months, and which recurred                immediately upon1
  the inhalation of the supcroxygenated air (vide my Philo
  sophy of Medicine, case xi. page 4'5) ; also a very wonder
  ful case as recorded by the ingenious and indefatigable Dr.
  Bed.locs, (vide Philosophy of Medicine, ease x. p. 474.*)
     4. The proportion being diminished, the same good arose
  as before ; which shows that this remedy requires                    some
judgment in its exhibition.
      5. That the air absorbed by the blood in the lungs influence*
  appetite and digesfioin is known by 6uchwho expose them
  selves to the sea air, the air of mountains, or even the air
  of a field ; which usually creates an appetite.
     6. That such, but in a superior degree, is the effect of A
  supcroxygenated air, is a general remark.                 Mrs. Lowrv,
 wife to a well-known eminent engraver employed in yoUt
 magazine, a lady endowed with a most excellent under
 standing, recollects what others have told her; and from her
journal I can collect, that upon inhaling the supcroxyge
                                                                      nated
    *  Mr. Davy, lecturer on chemistry at the Royal Institution, certainl y
one of the most enlightened philosophers of Europe, found, after breath
 ing the pure oxygen or vital air, that his respiration became laLo. ions,
and his pulse banter,— "effects as though a Ids quantity of oxvgcn whs ab
sorbed by the blood" (seeRcsesrchcsChcmical        and Philosophical, chiefly
 concerning Nitrous Oxide, p. 473) : but this could not be the fact, for the
 following reasons: In given proportions of common and vital air, an ani
mal will live four times longer in the latter than in the former; and so
increased are the actions of life, that in animals made to breat:,c the pure
vital air, the liver after death will be found so far oxygenated as to lose
its livf r-calour, and appear florid; marks of inflammation will every
where be discoverable, and the death produced on the animal will arise
from an excess of life.    That the absorption of oxygen is greater than
when breathing common atmospheric air, is shown from the following
accurate experiments by my late ingenious friend Dr. Ingenhousz:
    Thirty cubic inches of vital air was put into a dry bladder, and all
drawn into the lungs, and ejected, and so employed for several timeb.
The result was,
The proof of vital air was 0-7$, 0-48, I         JJ % -~ ^ U «'_^c
    o-»i,  fi8     -     -     -     -     -
After the hrst inhalation, O'So, o'6o, 160
After being breathed a second          time,
    075, I l6, 2-15
After the thiid time, o-86, r86
A(ccr the fourth time, r»i

              Tenth Communication from                         Dr. Thornton.                                      1 75
natal air, it   created so strong a sense of hunger, that,
as she was  returning home, she could not refrain from going
into a baker's shop, buying, and eating up directly, two
penny rolls.    Afterwards she came with a supply of 'bis
cuits ; which plan was followed at the same time by some
other patients*.
   7. The sea air at Hartleponl kept up the advantages of art
artificial inhalation of a svperoxygenated air. That there
is more vital air in sea -air than in-land, has been proved
by a very ingenious paper by Dr. Ingenhousz, presented bej
fore the Roval Society t- Most of the advantages of going
to the sea side arise from this cause J, instead of bathing.
How much more easy the expense of artificial inhalation of
a superoxygenated    air, if the advantages are the same, thart
distant journeys to those remote from the coast for the re
covery of health 1 This idea is worthy of some conside
ration.
  The   examination of common air was as follows :
        The  common air by proof was
                                      f'o "%
           106      -       -    -          " ^ •¦                                        -
                                                J
                                         S     S 5                                                 9+
        After one inspiration, 1-15                                                       -
                                                     "§ £jj
                                            „r   >^           J             C
                                                                                                   75
        After the second, 137       -
                                                          1            .£   ;§            "        *J
                                         u -15ti _, ,0
                                                                   £
        After the third, 1-47       -           I|                                        -        55
        After the fourth, 1-48     -  Vl_,                     2
                                                              g.   J        3             .        5»
   The bafdxes! of the pulse  and the difficulty   breathing    Mr. £>avy,
                                                                   cf                         in
tft.r inhaling the pure vital air, seem then to have arisen from     clegice                            a
of inflammatory fever having been induced; or by taking backwards and
forwards the same air tno often. To p'hiloso; hie mind this
                                                a                 no objec                         is
tion or that animals arc destroyed
   ;                                       by
                                       pure vital air, dying from an excess
of excitement; for the most potent poisons aie the best remedies, whtu
judiciously employed.
  * This effect might      be contradicted          by
                                                  future experience on       small                      a
scale, especially upon healthy individuals. Let the reader, therefore, be
acquainted, that Mrs. Lovtry at first came to me              coach, and could
                                                                            in   a
not support herself up: iiht.      She had been given up           the most able      by
practitioners.     As strength returned, appetite increased and this          ever   :                       is
as the wants of the svstem   :    after
                                      a   recovery from    fever every one must
                                                                        a
have experienced the cravings of nature, and her state was soon that of
convalescency.       So predisposed,  it    not to be wondered at
                                           is                          the oxygen             if
produced  a   circumstance at which some may smile; and               have added              1
this note, fearful of a    contrary account being hastily published         an ex                       by
periment made upon persons       in   the vigour of life.
 t    This ingenious memoir on the degree of goodness            the air (that       in                             is,
the proportion of vital air to azote,) as found on the open sea, on the sea
side, and at  a   distance from the sea, was read April 24, 170; and                                                is
published  in   vol. Ixx. of the Philosophical Transactions.
 J    The surprising cures recorded by Dr. Giicluist, and others, from
long sea voyages, must have partly proceeded from this circumstance.
The increase of appetite in short sea voyages has been noticed                 me                             by
more than once, and     by   others.
                                                                                                    8.       That

 17<>       Tenth Communication from            Dr. T/iomtort,
     8. That muscular power was restored.               Mrs. Lowry care
 fully noted,     at my desire,     the   number     of steps she took in
coming      to  my house,     and   upon returning after the inha
lation of      a superoxygenated        air ; and she found that the
number required upon          return    was  reduced nearly one-third.
If you notice the pavior : —before he strikes in the stone
he forcibly drives out the air in his lungs, takes iu a full in
spiration, and then uses his powerful exertion. The panting
for breath shows the use of this principle hi the blood for
exercise.
     9. The whole frame had a deadly cold, a?id the jingers
looked blue.       The Promethean fire inspired into the man of
Clay,    to those  fond of interpreting of antient hieroglyphics,
I would say was no other than vital air, which contains,
and imparts to the body, the animal heat.                      "  And he
breathed into him the breath of life." Moses.                    "  In the
blood is the life j" {the breath of life, the vital air;) there
fore (in reverence to this principle)         "  Thou shall not eat the
blood." Moses.
     10.   That tlie voice was no longer taken away by smells.
This is a curious fact, and shows the influence of the vital air
in giving energy to the muscles of the larynx.                    I could
mention, that a certain great actress upon inhaling the vital
air found the power ot her voice perceptibly increased j
all her lower tones were in every part of the house distinctly
heard, and a person was appointed by her purposely to as
certain this fact. The voice is always found stronger by
the sea side.
     11. When the blind boy recovered to sight was asked bv
the Jews about it, his answer wasy " I know before I was
blind, noiv I see." So of those who have been recovered
by the vital air, before they were thought incurable, now
they are cured. These attribute the effect to the cause s
Why should medical gentlemen then hesitate making an
experience for themselves ? There is no concealment of
names, or of the remedies at the same time employed,
or any thing above plain reasoning.                   Mr. Watt of Bir
mingham has kindly contrived a simple apparatus for
making the vital and other airs ; the process is easy f. A
                                          *
pneumatic apparatus for breathing the airs is cheap J. Ar
tificial air may be conveyed to any part of the world ia
   •
      This costs, to fabricate the nirs, three pounds,
   f   This is described by mc,    with a figure of the apparatus by Mr.
Lowry, vol. i. page 347, of my Philosophy of Medicine.         A pound of
manganese will yield 10 quarts of vital air, and a hundred weight of
manganese is sold in Loudon for 18 shillings'.
     j  A tin apparatus costs about thirty slifHings
                                                                   barrel?,

               Tenth Communication from           Dr. Thornton.           17 7
   barrels, and bottled off as wanted, like wine; the shrine
   of Diana       is not in danger, as other remedies may and
   should be exhibited at the same time : it does not interfere
   with them ; but, on the contrary, gives them power,
   whereas without it they have no basis to act on* : in the
  exhibition of the pneumatic remedy there is neither danger
   if used with precaution, nor disgrace in trial ; the harvest of
   discovery is wide, the only want is harvest-men.
       I shall conclude with the following energetic appeal by
  Dr. Fourcroy t to the faculty at Paris on this subject:
       "  It cannot any longer," says that eminent chemist
  and philosopher, " be permitted to the physician to remain
  an inactive spectator or the power of gaseous bodies on the
  animal ceconomy. No professional man, if he is at all in
  terested in the advancement of his studies, if he is at all
  animated with a proper zeal for the progress of medicine,
  can any longer neglect to instruct himself in the conclusions
  of modern discoveries J. The cold statue-like insensibility
  of some, the affected indifference of others, the sneer ut
  tered by this man, the irritated self-love of the other, the
  attachment of mankind for the doctrines of their fathers,
  the hatred of novelty, prejudices of every kind, all the
  mean passions which glide into society, playing their part
 on the theatre of civilized life, are to be found also in the
  career of science : the excesses which these have produced ;
 the pleasantries which they give rise to ; the sarcasms, or
 epigrams, with which they arm discourse ; the ridicule which
 lome have endeavoured to throw on the inventors; the epi
 thet of innovators, of which they are prodigal ; all this may
     * The                 of the balance of principles (Hvorogen and
              philosophy
 Oxvg::n)       in the body is a wonderful consideration for the contempla
 tion of the man of science and the physician.     As (ire burns not so much
 from the fuel poured on, as from the air without, so has this external
 principle a greater effect on us than most people are aware of. The
 oxygen air, or vital air, acts as a bellows to the frame.   The fire, which
 was once bad, being kindled up by the bellows, maintains afterwards its
 own blaxe ; so the vis Vila', energy of life, being roused by the inhala
 tion of -vital nir, afterwards keeps up its own natural inherent vigour.
This comparison is made for such who will not receive facts as they are
 recorded, and will allow no virtue in vital air, as not being inhaled all
day long,      What would we say of the practitioner who was ordering
bark every five minutes, or wine ?
     f  This fine appeal is at the commencement of an essay which this di
stinguished chemist and physician read in the School of Medicine at Paris,
on the medical virtues of oxygen; and the whole essay is given in the
aS;h volume of the Annals of Chemistry.
    J   A physician of considerable practice and estimation was lately con
sulted about the oxygen air j when he assured the patient that it did not
at all apply to his case, as he was already too much filled with air (fla
tulent  )!!
     Vol. XVII. No.         66.          M                            retard

178             Instruments alluded to in tliis Essay     >
retard    for some Jew years the progress of new ideas : but
truth will overcome every obstacle ; she cannot be frightened
either by the clamours of envy) or the resistance of preju
dice, or by the opposition of ignorance.             She is the rock
against which the impotent billows of human passions are
broken.       The cry yet vibrating in our ears against the cir
culation of the blood, the use of antimony, and the inocu
lation of the small-pox, could not hinder these discoveries
from being finally established. It will turn out exactly the
 same with the new chemical discoveries, when applied to
illustrate the functions of the animal ceconomy."
                          gloriously begun will never stop. I da
    *' Its career so
not in the least hesitate to pronounce," he continues,          "  that
¦modern cliemistry has done more in a few years for medicine,
than all the united labours of physicians in all the preceding
ages.      Only contemplate before this period what has been
written on the motion of the blood, the blood itself, the
nature of respiration, on animal heat, perspiration, diges
tion, and irritability; examine the subtle and ingenious hy
 potheses on these subjects, which appear at this time so
 degrading to the human reason ; let even the immortal
 Haller be tried by this test, whose facts are so valuable, but
 whose hypotheses are altogether a mere mass of dark and
 futile reasonings ; and we shall perceive how much we are
 indebted for the new lights thrown in by chemistry, and
 how much we have yet to expect." I remain, sir,
                            Your obedient humble servant,
                                        Robert John Thornton.
    P. S. If any medical gentleman would favour Dr. Thorn
 ton with the result of any trials with the factitious airs, they
 will be communicated to the Editor, for the philosophic
 world.
      [Tliese Communications are intended to         be continued.]
   XXX. Mr. Close's              Communication to the Board         of
                               Agriculture.
                  [Concluded from our last volume,  p. 60.]
    An Account of the Instruments alluded          to in this Essay.
  A he     instruments alluded to in this essav are, the common
  Suffolk    plough without any wheel, worked by two horses
  and  one   man : this implement is too well known to require
  a description.      Mr. Cooke's drill is an instrument which will
  deposit any quantity of seed per acre, at any given depth,
  with intervals of nine, eleven, or eighteen inches, two,
                                                                 three,

                   Instruments alluded to in this Essay!                    i79
  three, or four feet, with mathematical exactness ; so that,
  wherever it should fail of success, the failure must not be
  attributed to a defect in the machine, but to the ignorance,
  or more frequently the obstinacy, of the person who works
  it. I have tried it with success in all soils : the utility was
  most apparent, I should without hesitation say, in strong
  clays and clayey loams.            To obtain a fine tilth on the sur
  face of the soil, in the spring of the year, when the plants
  are growing) is indispensably necessary.                 This, should an
  incrustation be formed by heavy rains and sudden droughts,
  may at all times be secured by the use of the fixed harrow,
  scarifiers) and hoes.          The cultivator is another instrument
  lor which the agricultural part of the nation is indebted to
  the ingenious and very superior mechanical knowledge of
  the same gentleman.             It consists of a diagonal beam with
  seven narrow shares, and when used with these it is called
  a tillage scarifier. : there are also five broad triangular shares,
  which may be fixed in the same beam, and with these it is
  termed a scuffler : the whole complete forms the. cultivator.
  The scarifier may be used with three, four, or seven tines
  or teeth, according to the cleanness or foulness, the loose->
  ness or tenacity of the soil.             It is calculated to pulverize
   the soil, and to cleanse it from quitch grass.                 In short, it
   in a great measure supersedes the necessity of the plough <
   In tijling land, the objects are to pulverize, to expose, to
   cleanse from weeds, and to ridge up for keeping the land
   dry and healthy, and for sowing.              These are the desiderata,
   and all of these, except the last, may be most completely
•  attained, at half the usual expense, by the use of the til
   lage scarifier.       To secure a garden tilth on the fallows with
   out much expense, scarify the stubbles twice, deep and well,
   soon after harvest; with half a ploughing lay the land on to
   three-feet ridges before Christmas 3 reverse them in Febru
   ary, and after barley-sowing sled or harrow down the tops ;
   roll and scarify alternately until you have a very highly pul
   verized soil seven inches deep. Form your three-feet ridges,
   and drill your turnips.          The scufflers, or broad shares, are
   to skim the land and destroy the surface weeds.                  The fixed
   barrow is also a most excellent instrument, and, without
   the use of any other implement, will prepare land that was
    ridged up before Christmas for any spring-corn crop.                       It
    pulverizes the surface which has been exposed to the frost
    four or five inches deep, without turning up the cold sterile
    land below that depth *.
       '*
          The scarifying harrow is ndmirably calculated to pulvcrite crops iri
    in  early stage of their growth, as it will pass in tht nine- or eleven-ii ch
    intervals without i.ijuring the plants.
                                        M   3                                 All

 180'         Instruments alluded to in this Essay.
     All these instruments may be considered as appendages
 to the drill, all may be applied to the same axis and wheels ;
  and as all of them are worked and directed by handles, by
 more or less pressure the depth may be regulated at plea
 sure.    As I have been applied to by many gentlemen from
 various parts of the kingdom for information as to the num
  ber of these instruments, and horses requisite to cultivate
 any given quantity of land, I shall take this method of
 stating to the Board my ideas on this subject. For keeping
 one hundred acres of arable land in high tilth and regularly
 cropped, five horses would be necessary, two Suffolk ploughs,
 one cultivator eomplete, one beam and handles, - with only
 the tillage scarifiers, one fixed harrow, and one drill with
 corn scarifiers, and a set of flat hoes.   I should also recom
 mend two pair of wheels with axis, independent of the drill
 wheels, which I could never use but for the purpose of drill
 ing, except on very particular occasions.       It is unnecessary
 to say, that one strong waggon and one light harvest ditto,
 with three dung carts, would be necessary ; one common
 pair of harrows, and two rollers, (one very heavy, and only
 five feet long, to follow the scarifiers,) and one common
 roller for passing over the corn in the spring of the year.
Though an instrument not alluded to in this essay, I should
 strongly recommend Mr. Cooke's chaff-cutter, with which
 I cut almost all the straw raised upon my farm, which is
 applied to the purposes of animal food, and by passing
 through the stomachs of the beasts is converted into strong
manure ; one load worth three such as is usually made in
yards, which is little better than wet straw. 1 derive great
advantage also from a boiler invented by Mr. Cooke, which
saves two-thirds of the fuel.        By a tub over this boiler I
steam seven four-bushel bags of potatoes or turnips with
three pecks of coals.    A thrashing machine, capable of being
removed easily from one barn to another, appears to me a
desideratum. The quantity of corn which might be saved
by a complete machine of this sort would be of real national
 importance.      Though the cultivator and fixed harrow may
be considered as appendages to the drill, yet they are ap
plicable to the broad-cast husbandry, and would save, if gene
rally used, more than half the common expense for tillage.
                Upon   Drilling and Horse-hoeing.
    Prilling  is an operation which      requires but very little
intuition.     On this subject I shall only state the depth at
wliich the seed should be deposited, the quantity per acre,
and the width of the intervals, which appears to me, after1
fourteen or fifteen years practice, to be the most eligible.
                                                            Many

                  Upon Drilling and  horse-hoeing.            181
      !iy crops of wheat have been greatly injured by deposit-
       the seed too deep, especially in wet soils : a little at
tention to the principles of vegetation will demonstrate this.
Nature is uniform in her operations ; and whether the seed
be put into the earth at four, three, two, or one inch below
the surface, the roots, which are to carry the corn to per
fection, will be formed at one precise depth and very near
the surface.     Wheat has two sets of roots, which may be
termed the seminal and coronal : the first come from the
grain, and the others are formed in the spring from the
trown of the plant; they are united by a tube of commu
nication, by which the plant is supported until the coronal
roots are formed.      By depositing the seed too deep, it fre
quently perishes by a superabundance of moisture ; and cer
tainly from its increased length this little thread-like tube
is more liable to be cut asunder by the red or wire-worm.
This theory is confirmed by practical observation ; for in
the spring of the year I have frequently taken up plants of
broacl-cast wheat, and always found that those which ap
peared most luxuriant had been covered by not more than
an inch of mould, and those which had fallen into the fur
 rows, and were three or four inches below the surface, had
a very sickly appearance, with a small blade of a bad colour,
and making no efforts for tillering.         From this theory,
strengthened     and confirmed bv  observation,   I conclude that
an inch is the best depth for depositing the seed of wheat.
The same observations will apply to oats, barley, and rye,
all plants which form their coronal roots near the surface.
 I should recommend wheat, barley, oats, vetches, and rye,
on soils not very wet, to be drilled on five- or ten-feet ridges,
 in equidistant rows of one foot. Beans, pease, and turnips,
 on three-feet ridges, two rows on a ridge, nine inches from
row to row, with intervals of twenty-seven inches. Lands
 in high tilth, and on five-feet ridges, will require only three
 pecks of seed wheat or rve ; five pecks of oats, barley or
vetches, and one bushel of beans or pease, per acre, and
half a pound of turnip-seed on the three-fcet ridges, vary
ing    a peck an acre, according to the goodness of the seed
 and the richness of the soil. For scarifying, and horse-hoe
 ing, some attention and judgment will be requisite. No
 corn should be scarified until the spring of the year.      Pul
 verize the surface by passing the fixed harrow across the
 wheat previous to scarifying, to break the incrustation on
 the surface, lest the scarifiers should throw large flakes of
  earth over the rows of corn.    After this operation, pass the
 scarifiers  through, about an inch below the surface, return-
                                M 3                            ing

 1 6S              Upon   Drilling and Horse-hoeing.
 ing in the same track, as deep as the land was ploughed ;
then roll with a heavy roller, which will give the whole
 land a concussion, and pulverize it six inches below the
 surface, allowing the tender roots room to expand in a fine
bed of vegetable food.         In short, care must be taken not to
 throw any earth up to the plants in this early stage ; for, as
 nature always forms the coronal roots at the most advan
 tageous depth below the surface of the soil, by throwing
earth to the plants you impede her operations, and she
will, by a sort of vegetable instinct, be obliged to form
 fresh coronal roots. I have known the progress of vegetar
tion much retarded for want of this precaution; and nature
has laboured so steadily to rectify the errors of man, that
sometimes three sets of coronal roots have been formed,
those beneath dying as the joint at the proper distance below
the surface sends out new ones. When these operations are
               with judgment, the advantages are beyond calcu-
  ation. The scarifiers and roller moving all the soil, without
Iierformed
earthing up, give the roots room to expand, and assist the
operations of nature : the tillering will be greatly increased *,
and all the offsets ripen at the same time; and by earth
ing up the plants when the ears arc risen six or seven. inche&
aDove the surface, a plump and fine sample will be secured,
and no more offsets can be formed.            Rolling will be inju
rious when the cars are risen above the surface. These pre
cautions arc only necessary with wheat, and the white corn
crops with coronal roots : with pease, beans, vetches, and
all tap-rooted plants, no injury can be sustained for want
of such attention. Never attempt to perform any of these
operations until the land be dry ; and be sure to keep a fine
tilth on the surface of your lands four or five inches deep
in the spring, whilst the plants are in a young and growing
state.    Were this new system universally adopted, the saw
ing in seed corn would be of the utmost national conse
quence ; certainly not less than eight million bushels of
rye, three million bushels of barley, four million of oats,
and one million of pease and beans.            This statement docs
not amount to the full quantity which might be saved. This
Jast autumn more than a sixth part of the scanty crop of
wheat was thrown into the ground for seed. Such are the
times, that the noblemen and gentlemen of landed property
must considerably increase their rents, or they cannot hold
their situations in the scale of society. To answer this der
   • I
       have counted «nc hundred and one items of bailey, all likely to
prrive at perfection, from one seed.
                                                              mand.

             Estimate between Grass and Arable Lands.          1 $3
 taand, and the additional expenses upon every agricultural
  instrument, the rise of poor rates and the high price of la
  bour, the farmer must receive at least one-third more from
 the produce of his farm.       Should this he effected by such
 an additional price on the articles of necessary consump
  tion, the wages of our manufacturers must be such as to
 oblige us to give up all competition in foreign markets, and
 our trade will decline. But I am thoroughly convinced that
 the landlord may enjoy his increased rent, and the farmer
 not only eat the fruits of his own labours, but acquire
 a competency for his family, by an improved method of
 husbandry, without any increase on the average price of the
 necessaries of life, taken for ten years previous to these
 seasons of dearth.       These, my lord, you and the Board,
 will  feel to be subjects of the utmost national importance.
 In  a  letter to the Bath society   I affirmed that the saving of
 seed corn by the general use of drilling would amount to
 five million pounds sterling annually ; and that, by the in
 crease   of crop, and a judicious application of that crop, par
 ticularly of the straw, which when good is preferable to bad
 or indifferent hay, an addition to the produce of the lands
 now in cultivation might be made to amount, with the seed
 corn saved, to fifteen million pounds sterling : and so care
 ful was I not to exceed the bounds of truth, that I am fully
 persuaded my calculation is below what might be effected,
 by one-half.      May the laudable exertions of such patriotic
 noblemen as yourself, and your intelligent predecessor lord
Somerville, be crowned with success ! and may our agricul
tural improvements and internal resources keep pace with
the increasing demands which the necessities of the times
must occasion !
  A  comparative    Estimate between Grass and Arable Lands.
    Though I have demonstrated, by actual and extensive ex
periments, the advantages resulting from a judicious mode
of converting lands exhausted by tillage into meadow and
pasture, yet I do not allow that lands under tillage for any
number of years must necessarily be in such an exhausted
state as to make this plan requisite : on the contrary, I am
fully persuaded that all lands capable of cultivation will, if
well tilled, fairly cropped and dressed, be in a progressive
state of improvement, and not only produce a better rent to
the landlord, and pay twenty times as much to the produc
tive labourers, but also yield a much greater profit to the oc
cupier than the same number of acres in grass.          Fine rich
                                M it                    meadows

 ] 84      Estimate tetween Grass and     Aralle  Lands»
 meadows on the banks of rivers liable to be flooded, and such
 as can be irrigated, no one would think of converting into
 tillage ; but all grass lands from ten to thirty shillings per
 acre rent, I should wish to see tilled by judicious agricul
turists.    It is not necessary to give validity to my opinion
by an exact detail of the produce of grass lands and arable
lands of the value to which I have confined my assertion.
 If grass lands let for ten shillings per acre yield the gross
sum, on an average of years, of seventeen shillings, there
is so very little expense upon them the tenant could not
 complain.     If let for twenty shillings, thirty shillings may
be the gross produce : if for thirty shillings, let forty-five
shillings be the average.      As rates and taxes advance with
the rents, probably this may be a fair estimate.          In a na
tional point of view, how can these sums be equivalent to
those which must be produced from arable land, when every
agriculturist is convinced that the expense of labour only
on every acre of land well cultivated will amount to more
than three pounds by the time its produce is carted to mar
ket ? Whilst therefore these lands continue to pay the far
mer for his additional trouble, skill, and capital, it is evident
the national produce must be increased.        But some gentle
men apprehend such a preference to the plough would in
crease the price of butchers meat to an alarming, height.
To this Mr. Adam Smith would answer, that wheat will
ultimately regulate the price of all the necessaries of life.     I
have full faith in the conclusion drawn by this able writer ;
but, as a farmer, I can obviate this objection without re
sorting to his authority.     Take this course of husbandry on
lands worth thirty shillings per acre, turnips, or cabbages,
oats, clover, and wheat. The eighth part of an acre of
good turnips steamed, and with the liquor mixed with oat
straw cut, will keep a full grown beast in good order six
months.      An acre of turnips, with the first crop of clover
hay, will fatten two bullocks in the same time. The wheat
straw, with the addition of one-eighth of an acre of turnips,
will winter another beast ; and the second cut of clover an
other. Thus the produce of straw, turnips, and clover,
from the four acres, with the addition of one-fourth of
an acre of turnips, will keep three beasts six months,
and in the same time will fatten two bullocks of fifty
score each.       The produce of four acres of grass land
l«t at thirty shillings per acre, would not send two fat bul
locks to the market, and summer tsvo.         If I be correct in
my    statement,   which  I trust I am,  the advantage in favour
of the arable lands is more than the whole of the crops of
       r                        .   .                       wheat

                                Talk of       Crops.                            186
wheat and oats.           Gentlemen and farmers who have not
tried the effect of steaming the potatoe and turnip crops,
and stalling all their cattle, may suppose my calculations
erroneous ; but my own practice confirms the theory. The
quantity of rich manure raised will pay the additional la
bour.      I am aware that the estimate of produdtive labour
should not be restricted to the farm, and that the cattle or
the sheep, after they are disposed of by the grazier, find
employment for our manufacturers.                          But the advantages
derived from this do not more than counterbalance the sums
expended in manufacturing the produce of the arable lahds
after it is carted to market by the grower. The wheat is
                         i sorts of flour, starch, and hair powder;
       barley  into    malt,      beer, and spirits.            I have therefore'
     itted the expense and profit en the produce both of grass
and arable lands after it is disposed of by the farmer. My
statements, from actual experiments, which constitute pro
bably the most material part of this essay, your lordship
 and the Board may depend upon as correct. Should my
 theory on other subjects, of the utmost national import
 ance, appear erroneous, it will be disregarded ; but, I trust,
 with this indulgent conclusion, that the author's wishes to
 be of service to his country far outstrip his abilities ; and
 thai, however light and superficial his arguments, when
 weighed by the scale of superior knowledge and more ex
tensive information, may appear, no one will doabt the pu
 rity of his intentions.           I have the honour to be, &c.
                                                                  Thk Author.
 To the Right Hon, Lord Carrington.
 A    Table showing at one View a Course of Crops, adapted to
             various Soils, for any Number of Years.
               C  Turnips
               3 or Cab'
                            f    Oats
                                                  and
                                                           Wheat
                                                                                or
 Clay
                            £              Clover
                                        {Beans                      {Turnips
                                                                       Cabbages
               C bages     3
                           -J
                  or Cab- > Oats           Clover          Wheat     JTurnips or
               {Turnips
                  bages    J                                         I Cabbages
               C Turnips -*
 Rich Loams    1 and Po- I Barley          Clover          Wheat       Beans
 or Sandy      < tatoes        >
 Loams
 Peat Earth
                I Beans
               (_Turnips
                  Turnips
                           J  I Barley
                                 Barley
                                 Barley
                                           Pease
                                           Clover
                                           Clover
                                                           Wheat
                                                           Wheat
                                                           Wheat
                                                                       Ad infinitum
                                                                       Potatoes
                                                                       Potatoes
 Chalky sub
 stratum          Turnips        Barley    Clover           Wheat      Potatoes
               ^
 (travels         Turnips        Barley
                                           Clover         . Clover
 Light Lands      Turnips        Barley i*•and  Rye
                                                  '   i
                                                      •
                                                        i   and Rye
                                                        *¦Grass
                                           Grass
                                                                                 Days.

          2-2
                                                                                                                                                                        day
          £•9                                                                                                                   J                                       Sun
                                                                      .     .  ...    —
                  o       w
                         O
                                                                                                                                                                        day
                          u
                                                                                                                                                                       Satur
                          W
    O
           u     5
    ui                   H <U+25BA>< O
          3       -                                                                                                                                                   Friday
t                          u,
                          <¦
          o       =       A                                                                                                                                         i          -
    o                     H                                                                                                                                            i           ¦
C         s
    c/i   «                                                                                                                                                             day
                to        <                                                                                                                                            Thurs
          -3                         ft
                         Q          to
                a S 'o
                                     <^>
          «u ->
    o                                                                                                                                                                 nesday
    X     *      3C                                                                                                                                                    Wed
                  o      M V.
          0«J s   **                            i
                          u         a
                         W
    o                     'SI                                                                                                                                           day
a          -i
           -15
                  10                -a
    w                    <H                                                                                                                                            Tues
    -«
.
oa        ._o
          —                                                                        coppice. cutting man     1
                                           ;  turnips pulling    boy     cows keeping     2   birds keeping
    U             o
                         s s- A w
                          u                 boys
                                                   ;        at potatoes cutting women
                                                                    ; ;                    ; ;9       at ditto                                                 uary
    JJ                                      boy
                                                2 1      men    two
                                                                    1
    u                    X                           and               ditto at cows and oxen after ing
                                                                                                                                     9              gra- the of out Monday
'S                        H                  look straw, and hay cutting men         2         at yard, Barn       10       6                 12
                                                                                      ;;                                                            oats of bushels 28, April
    O                                      Hill    at dung up turning' men
                                                                                      field further   the ing                                         18 Delivered
                                            harrow     and scarifying   horses
                                                                                2 6
                                                                                   and men    3   ;lane
                                                                                                         ——
                                           in field first the ploughing      horses four and       men   Two
                                                                                                                                                                        .
                                                                   employed.    How                              Horses.   Boys.   jWomen.   Men.    Occurrences.      Days.

             Society   of Arts and Sciences at Utrecht.               187
electric eel and    other fish of the like kind, as well        as on ths
Galvanic power,       seem    to  indicate, a great  similarity   and co-i
incidence in their nature, and at the same time a percepti
ble difference in their effects, the society requires a com
parative view of these powers and effects, clearly explained
and founded on experiments.
    The prize question proposed in the year 1 800, in regard
to prevailing diseases, to which no answer has been given,
is again proposed to be answered before the 1st of October
 1 805, with the usual prize :
    " What are the reasons that the diseases which prevail
3t present among the inhabitants of Holland, at the differ
ent seaspns of the year, are not so simple as in former,
times ? that is, do they arise from sources of an infectious,
bilious, or slimy kind, or from several other causes com
bined ? and what is the best method of distinguishing with
certainty, at the commencement of these diseases, which of
the above causes has the ascendency? and what is the best
method of cure?"
    The following question was proposed in the year 1802,
to be answered before the 1 st of October 1 604 :
    *' What are the causes that Holland, about the
                                                                   begin
ning of the seventeenth century, was so much distinguish*
ed over other countries by the great number of its writers,
original poets, and men of real learning ; and at the same time
produced in the course of that century so many celebrated
painters, though the number of these has been gradually
decreasing ever since? and what means of reviving the arts
and sciences may be discovered by researches respecting
these causes    ?
                  "
    Another question proposed in the year 1 7 99 was repeat
ed    in 1802, with a double prize, to be answered before the
 1st  of October 1804 :
    " As the difference of opinions which prevail among
 physicians respecting the so called             pathologia Intmoralis,
has an influence not only on physiological researches,                 but
on the state of the medical science, the society requires
that the following points may be determined by more ac
 curate examination :
    "   1st, What peculiar diseases and faults in the juices,
 represented by Gaubius as vitia humorum alsolula*, ac
 tually take place in the human body, and what are merely
supposed     ?
    *f 2d,   Whether     and how far such diseases          arise from a
                    *                       268 to § 38*.
                      In$tit.P.iih.fl4ed.§
                                                                  peculiar

 189            Schercr's Journal. — Avrostation.
peculiar and original degeneration in the juices ? and whe
ther these diseases of the juices arise wholly from a change
in the vital functions of the vessels and solids, or depend
chiefly on them ? In case this question be answered in the
affirmative, Is the change of the juices which appears after
the use of medicines, to be deduced chiefly from the action
of these medicines on the juices and solids ?"
   The answers to these questions must be written in a
strange hand, and furnished with a motto. The name must
be written bv the author himself in a sealed note.       The
papefs may be written in Dutch, German, but nol in Ger
man characters, English, French, or Latin, and must be
transmitted, post paid, to the first secretary, professor
Rossyn, or to the assistant secretary, Dr. Van Toulon, at
Utrecht.    They must remain the property of the society,
and can be printed only by them.
       XXXII.   Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                    scherbr's journal.
Professor Scherer of Berlin has been appointed profes
sor at Dorpat, to which he has removed. His Allgemeines
Journal der Chemie has therefore been closed with the
sixtieth number. It is to be succeeded, however, by the fol
lowing work, Allgemeines Journal der Chemie, edited hy
Hermbstadt, Klaproth, Richter, A.N. Scherer, and Gchlen.
The first number has been already published, and contains
Essays on the analvsis and origin of meteoric stones and
metallic masses, by Klaproth, Vauquelin, and Wrede:
Essays on the prussic acid in vegetable substances, by Vau
quelin and Bucholz ; chemical apparatus; correspondence ;
intelligence.  M. Gehlen has undertaken to be. principal
editor.
                        AEROSTATION.
                                            Bologna,   October   8th.
  Yesterday the long announced aerial excursion of Count
Zambeccari took place, and in a manner entirely new. The
balloon, which was furnished with a lantern, and which
the count imagined he should be able to direct by means of
two wings applied to    it,
                        ascended in the night-time.     Dr.
Grassett'i andM. Andreoli accompanivd the aeronaut in the
car. About one o'clock in the morning the balloon was
seen at Castel-Franco, about tw elve Italian miles from Bo
                                                           logna.

                             Aerostation                       1 8«J
 logna.     Its further fate is not yet known. Count Zam-
 beccari's intention was to make an aerial excursion from
 Bologna to Milan.
                                                Venice, October 14.
     I write this to communicate to you the particulars of a
 very singular and remarkable aerial voyage.        Count Zam-
 beccari of Bologna, Dr. Grassetti of Rorne, and M. Pascal
 Andreoli of Ancona, had some months ago prepared a
  large and     strong air balloon, which they filled in that
 city on Friday the 7th. The rilling, however, went on
 very slowly, and was not completed till midnight.          Count
 Zambeccari and his companions were therefore desirous to
 put off their ascent till the next day : but the impatience
 and clamour of the populace obliged them to step into the
 car and suffer the balloon to ascend about three quarters of
 an hour after twelve, though with a resolution or descend
 ing as soon as they possibly could.      The balloon rose with
 the utmost rapidity, and soon reached such a height, that
 Count Zambeccari and Dr. Grassetti, benumbed with cold
 and seized with a nausea, fell into a state of insensibility
 and deep sleep.
     M. Andreoli, who alone retained the use of his senses,
 was not able to determine the height by his barometer, as
the candle which he had in a lantern had gone out. About
half an hour after two in the morning the balloon began to
descend,      and M. Andreoli soon observed distinctly the
waves of the Adriatic sea dashing against the coast of Ro-
niagna.      He therefore waked his companions, and endea
voured    to  kindle the light by a phosphoric match, but with
out success.       At length, however, he obtained a light by a
piece of flint and steel, and immediately after the balloon
fell into the Adriatic, and with such violence that the water
was dashed up to the height of several feet above them.
The aerial travellers, drenched with sea water and be
numbed with cold, threw out in great consternation a bag
of sand, their instruments, and every thing they had with
them in the car.       By these means the balloon rose again
rapidly : they then passed through three strata of clouds lying
over each other ; in consequence of which their clothes
were cqvered with a thick rime; and on account of the
rarity of the air in which they now were when raised above
the clouds, they could scarcely hear each other speak.       The.
moon illuminated the atmosphere under them, and had a.
hlood-red colour.       About three o'clock in the morning the
balloon again descended, but slowly, and a violent gust of
wind at south-west drove it across the Adriatic towards the
               4                                            coast

190                         Airostatioii.
coast of Istria.    The car   several times touched the wares )
and the travellers   were carried in this manner over the sur
face  of the sea for five hours, every moment in expectation
of being swallowed up by it.         At eight o'clock on SaturJ
day morning they were about twenty Italian milea from the
harbour of Veruda in Istria, when they were fortunately
picked up and saved from destruction by Anthony Bazol,
master of a large bark, who accidentally discovered them.
The balloon was abandoned to the wind, which drove it to
wards the mountain of Opero, and in all probability it has
been conveyed to Dalmatia.         The aerial travellers, having
their feet and hands quite benumbed, arrived in the above
bark in the harbour of Pola, where they remained four days to
recover from their fatigue. This morning, at eight o'clock,
they arrived here, and gave the above account of their expe
dition. Their journey from the coast of Romagna to Istria
was about twenty German miles.            Had they not fallen in
with the before-mentioned master of a bark, they no doubt
must have been buried in the waves.          The aerial travellers
were received here with great hospitality; but they seem to
have no desire of undertaking another aerial excursion at.
midnight.
                                                 Genoa, October i+.
    According to further accounts from Venice, one of the
 aeronauts, whose misfortune we already have announced,
 countZambeccari, has altogether lost the use of his hands. It
 appears that these philosophers ascended to a greater height
 than any person ever did.        Before Bazol observed them
 and saved their lives, they were seen by a boatman of Lor-
 rono in Istria; but as he thought he saw the devil in the air
 surrounded by a globe of fire, he rowed from them as fast
 as  possible, and left them exposed to their fate.
                                               Bologna, October 17.
    Private letters from Venice represent the present state of
 the   unfortunate' aeronaut, count Zambeccari, as very me
 lancholy.     It has already been found necessary to amputate
 his frozen fingers. His two companions, Dr. Grassetti
 and M. Andreoli, have come off better: the former ha*
 arrived at this place.    The other two are at Venice.        The
journey they performed amounts to 30 German miles.
 When they arrived at Pola, they were immediately blooded
 by a surgeon, and their hands and feet were so much
 swelled that it was found necessary to make incisions in
 the skin.
                                                           Extract

                            Meteorology.                       tgt
            Extract of a Letter from     M.   Garnerln.
                                                 Moscow, October 5.
    My thirty-fifth   ascent took place the day before yesterday
during    calm   weather,   the wind being at north-west.         I
ascended at five o'clock with my countryman, M. Aubcrt,
who suffered considerably in his ears by the rarefaction of
the air.    I  saw for the first time an image of my balloon,
formed in the clouds in very bright prismatic colours. We
descended at six o'clock at the country seat of prince Via-
semsky.       Next morning I made another ascent at eight
o'clock.      I passed through different regions of the air, and
rose to the height of more than 4000 toises, without expe
riencing any other inconvenience than a cold of 4° Reau
mur (4I0 Fahr.).        I galvanised myself, and observed flashes
 of light.    I discharged a musket twice : the report appeared
 to be fainter than at the earth.       I should have continued
 my voyage and observations, had it not been for the folly
 of a hunter, who fired his piece loaded with shot at my bal
 loon at the moment when I was hovering over a wood.               1
 was therefore obliged to descend, and at the same time to
 be on my guard against the peasants, who, seeing me de
  scend from the clouds, frequently crossed themselves with
  profound inclinations, and approached me and my balloon
  slowly.    A note written in the Russian language, which I
  threw down, enabled them to form some idea of the pro
  digy.    Count Solticoff advised me to this measure) which
  succeeded.
                           METEOROLOGY.
     An uncommonly luminous          meteor was seen on Sunday,
  the   13th of November,       about forty minutes past eight
  o'clock at night.      To some it appeared of an oval form,
  and as followed by sparks which gave it somewhat the ap
  pearance of having a tail.     To others it seemed a wavy line
  ot light, which burst and divided itself into several small
  ball* of fire before it disappeared.     It emitted a very vivid
  light, by  which    the  most  minute   objects could be distin
  guished,   and   moved   with great velocity in a north-westerly
  direction.     It was seen not only all round the metropolis,
  but, by the accounts that have reached us, over the greater
   part of England, and nearly at the same instant of time ;
  which proves that its height was considerable.        It was suc
   ceeded, after an interval of a few seconds, by a peal of di
   stant thunder.
                                                      GEOGRAPHY.

   l§t                Geography. -^-Longevity,
                            GEOGRAPHY.
     A letter from Madrid, dated October 10, states, thai
  orders have been issued from the secretary of state's office
  in regard to a general map of Spain, the plan of which was
  formed some time ago, and actually begun, but interrupted
  several times in consequence of various unforeseen circum
  stances. This plan, however, is now about to be carried into
 execution, having been intrusted to the society of geographers
 established some years ago under the ministry of the Prince
 of Peace, and placed under the inspection of don Salvador de
 Ximenes, director of the observatory of Madrid, to whom
 the society is particularly indebted for its organization and
 progress. Two of its members, captains Ybarra and Sa-
 rasa, have already received their instructions ; one to su
 perintend the geometrical and the other the astronomical
 operations, by which the position of each place will be ac
 curately laid down. A certain number of pupils distributed
 in different provinces, and always stationed in such a man
 ner as to be under the inspection of the chiefs, will assist
 them in their labour ; and eminent mineralogists and bota
 nists have been appointed to collect information in regard
 to the productions of the different provinces, their popula
 tion, the nature of the soil, &c. By these means the Spa
 nish government will obtain a complete statistical account
of its wide dominions, and be better enabled to introduce
 such improvements as the present state of the country may
 require.
                            LONGEVITY.
    The following extraordinary instance of longevity is given
in a late German journal : — " There is now living near Po-
losk, on the frontiers of Livonia, a Russian who served
under Gustavus Adolphus, king of Sweden.                 He was pre
sent at the battle of Pultawa in J 709, at which time he was
eighty-six years of age. At the age of ninety-three he en
tered into the married state, and had children.           The family
of this patriarch consists of 186 individuals, who reside to
gether in a village which comprehends ten houses. The
oldest of his grandchildren is 102; the age of the next is
not less than a century.      This old man still enjoys a perfect
state of health, though now 180."
Exr atum      In our last Number, page 95, last line of Note, iot ciiktt
                             read ttber.

 fcCXIII.    On Gems.       By W. H. Pepts jun. Esq. P. R. I.
    Member    of  the  Askesim Society. Read in the Session
    1802-3*.
 This class of bodies has engaged the attention of all ranks
of society from the earliest ages : their beauty, and property
 of decomposing light, producing the variegated coICuts of
the prism and the rainbow, will always procure them a place
in the most splendid and sumptuous displays of human
magnificence.
   To the philosopher they open a wide and extended field
in his inquiries into the secret works of nature; and the
cabinet or the mineralogist becomes more interesting and
enlivened by their presence.
   We find the greater part of them were used in the costume
of the priests of the temple : — " And they set in it (the breast
plate of the priest) four rows of stones : the first was a
sardius-, a topaz, and a carbuncle,— this was the first row ;
and the second row an emerald, a sapphire; and a diamond ;
and the third row a figure, an agate, and an amethyst ; and
the fontth row a beryl; an onyx, and a jasper ; and they
were inclosed in ouches (or toils) of gold in their in-
tlosings."
   Those which are most esteemed, and reckoned the most
valuable, with the modems; are :
         1. The diamond.                 6. The hyacinth.
         2. The ruby.                    7- The beryl.
         3. The sapphire;                U. The amethyst*.
         4. The emerald.                 Q. The garnet,
         5. The topaz.                  10. The chrysolite.
   1 . The diamond, formerly classed with the siliceous ge
nus; is now acknowledged to belong to the inflammable or
carbonaceous : it has the greatest degree of transparency,
and is the most beautiful and most bnliiant of all the pre
cious stones.     It produces only single refraction, but its
refractive powers are stronger than that of any other body;
it separates the colours better ; and this is the cause why it
sparkles with so much lustre, especially in" the light of the
sun. An artificial gem of glass does not reflect the light
From its hinder surface until that surface is inclined in an
angle of 41 degrees, while the property of the diamond is
such as to occasion all the light to be reflected, which falls
       * Copied, by permission, from the R.e;crcU of the Society.
   Vol.. XVII. No.      67-         N  .
                                                                  ax
       Decemier 1303.

194                          On Gams.
on any of its interior surfaces at a greater angle of inci
dence than 24£ degrees.        The diamond, therefore, will not
only  throw   back all the  light which an artificial gem would
reflect,  but likewise  one-half  as much more, which, felling
between the angles of 4 1 degrees and 24£, would have been
suffered to pass through by the false gem.
    There are two kinds of the diamond, the Oriental and the
Brasilian, which differ only in the form of their crystalliza
tion.
    The Oriental diamond crystallizes in octaedra, composed
of two pyramids having four equilateral triangular       faces, a
little convex, united by their bases.      This form is some
times modified into a figure of twenty-four faces, and some
 times even of forty-eight, all triangular and somewhat con
vex. The specific gravity of the Oriental diamond is 3'5212.
    The Brasilian diamond crystallizes in dodecaedra, the
 twelve faces of which are rhombs a little convex. The
 specific gravity of this stone is 3-4444.
    The Oriental diamonds are found in the kingdoms of Gol-
 conda, Visapour, Bengal, and the island of Borneo.        There
are four mines, or rather two mines and two rivers^ wheHce
 diamonds are drawn.       The mines are: 1st, That of Raol-
conda, in the province of Carnatica, five leagues from Gol-
 conda and eight or nine from Visapour : it has been disco
 vered about 300 years.      2d, That of Gani or Colour, lying
 eastward of Golconda : it was discovered about 200 years
 ago by a peasant, who digging in the ground found a na
 tural fragment weighing 25 carats. 3d, That of Somelpour,
 or rather of Gaoul, that being the name of the river in the
sand of which these stones are found : this is the most an-
 tient of them all. Lastly, The fourth mine, or rather the
second river, is that of Succudan, in the island of Borneo.
    The diamonds from Raolconda are found in a rocky soil,
through which run several small veins of half an inch, or
sometimes an inch, broad, out of which the miners, with a
hooked instrument, draw the sand in which the diamonds
are.    When a sufficient quantity of the earth is obtained,
they wash it several times to separate the stones therefrom.
These men work quite naked, except a cloth drawn round
the middle; and besides this precaution, they have likewise
inspectors to prevent their concealing of stones, which they
frequently do by swallowing them.
    In the mine of Gani, or Colour, was found the famous
diamond of Aurcng Zeb, the great mogul, which, before
it was cut, weighed 793 carats. The miners dig 12 or 14
ieet deep, and till such time as they find water, which serves
                                                            them

                            On Geifo.                         4g£
  them to wash the earth obtained : when well washed and
  dried, they sift it in a kind of open sieve, and search it well
  for the diamonds it may contain. These people work also
  naked, with inspectors over them.
     The diamonds from the river Gaoul and Succudan are
  obtained by damming or stopping a part of the rivers,
 Which they empty of their water ; then taking up the sand,
 they sift it and search it for the diamonds.
     The province of Brasil, which produces diamonds, is si
 tuated inland between 22^ and 16 degrees of south latitude :
 its circumference is near 670 leagues.      This province is di
 vided into four districts.    The diamonds are found chiefly
 in the last, called Sero Dosrio, or Cold Mountain. The
 whole of this province is rich in the ores of iron, antimony,
 zinc, tin, silver, and gold.
    The mountains are the true matrix of the diamond ; but
 as the work in the beds of rivers and on their banks is less
 tedious, can be conducted on a larger scale, arid affords
larger diamonds, they dbandohea the mountain, and formed
great establishments in the river of Tovicanbirnen, which
 flows through the valley, and is near ninety leagues in
length.     It was found, on examination and digging, that
the whole surface of the ground immediately beneath the
vegetable stratum contained more or less of diamonds dis
seminated and attached to a matrix, ferruginous and com
pact in various degrees, but never iri veins.
    These works are riot carried on by the Portuguese go
vernment, but are farmed to certain individuals, who are
bound by contract not to employ above a stipulated number
of slaves upon these districts, as before this condition the
quantity of diamonds brought into' the riiarket considerably
lowered their value.
    In the choice of rough diarriohds great care should be
taken in regard to their colour, theitbeiiig free from ex
traneous matter, and their shape.
    The most perfect are crystalline, and resembling a drop
of clear spring water, in the middle of which you will per
ceive a strong light playing with a great deai of spirit.     If
the coat be smooth and bright, with a little tincture of green
jn   it,      not the worse, and seldom proves bad        but
                                                              j if
           it
                a is
                                                       :
there be     mixture of yellow with green, then beware of    it
it   is
     a  soft greasy stone, and will prove bad.
    If stoiie has
       a               a  rough coat that you can hardly see
through          it,
               and the coat be white, and look as    if it  was
rough       by
            art, and clear of flaws or veins, and no blemish
                             N   2                           cast

                                  On Gems.
cast in the body     of the stone, which may be discovercifby
holding it against the light, the stone will prove good.
     It often happens that a stone shall appear of a reddish
hue on the outward coat, not unlike the colour of rusty
iron, yet by looking through it against the light you may
observe the heart of the stone to be white ; and if there be
any black spots, of flaws, or veins in         which by true eye
                                                 it,                a
may be discovered, although the coat of the stone be opake,
such stones are generally good.
     If diamond appear of greenish bright coat resembling
     a                             a
a   piece of green glass inclining to black,       generally proves
                                                       it
hard, and seldom bad such stones have been known to be
                             :
of the first water: but           any tincture of yellow seems to
                                  if
run with   it,  you may depend upon its being bad stone.    a
     All stones of milky coat, whether the coat be bright or
                     a
dull, if   ever so little inclining to the blueish cast, are natu
 rally  soft, and in danger of being flawed in the cutting                  j
 and though they should have the good fortune to escape,,
yet they will prove dead and milky.
     All diamonds of        cinnamon-coloured coat are very du
                             a
bious but
     j      if   of bright, mixt with little green, then they
                     a                       a
 are certainly bad, and arc accounted amongst the worst of
 colours.
     The greatest care must be taken to avoid beamy stones                  ;
 and this requires greater skill and practice than many jew
 ellers are equal to. By beamy stones are meant such as look
 fair to the. eye, and yet are so full of veins to the centre that
 no art or labour can polish them they run through several
                                        ;
 parts of the stone, and sometimes through all when they        ;
 appear on the outside they show themselves like protuberant
  excrescences,    from whence run innumerable small veins
  obliquely crossing each other and shooting into the body
  of the stone   : the stone itself will appear    very bright coat,
                                                       a
  and shining, and the veins looking like            very small po
                                                        a
  lished steel needle    ;sometimes the knot of the veins will
  be in the centre, and fibres shoot outward, and the small
  ends terminate in the coat of the diamond           stones having
                                                            s
  these properties are difficultly cut, and will never take     good    a
 .polish.
      There are diamonds of almost all colours: some incline
  to rose colour, others to green, blue, brown, and black.
  Mr. Dutens saw black diamond at Vienna in the collec
                     a
  tion of the prince of Lichtenstcin.
      The diamond becomes phosphoric             by
                                               exposure to tfee solar
   tays, or by   heating     red hot in
                             it            crucible on the fire. It
                                             a

                           Dn Cans.                           1 97
is electric when rubbed,    and affects  the electrometer   with
the negative power.
    It was always supposed    to be the most refractory and in
destructible in the fire, till the experiments of d'Arcet and
Macquer proved the contrary : but they supposed it to be
volatilized ; they had no idea of its combustion.      D'Arcet
and Macquer's experiments were made in consequence of
an observation of Boyle's, that the diamond, when exposed
to the action of a violent fire, emitted acrid vapours.
    The emperor Francis the First caused diamonds and ru
bies to be exposed in crucibles to a reverberatQry fire for
24 hours ; the diamonds disappeared,        but the rubies re-i
mained unaltered. These experiments he had again repeated
at an expense of six thousand florins.
   The grand duke of Tuscany had a series of experiments
made with a large mirror and the concentrated rays from
the sun upon the diamond, in which it was destroyed.            It
required  a short period for its being completely   volatilized,
as it was then called.
    Macquer seems latterly to have had another opinion, when,
he says, he observed the diamond dilated and swelled up,
and that a blue flame was observable on its surface.
   Lavoisier and Cadet proved the combustion of the dia
mond, and that it ceased as soon as the oxygen was de
stroyed; and that the stone only burnt in proportion to
the oxygen present, like all other combustible substances-
Lavoisier also observed that the gas produced during the
combustion precipitated lime water, which effervesced upon
the addition of an acid.
   Sir Isaac Newton, from its great power of refracting the
light, conjectured it was a combustible body : his words
are, ** it is probably an unctuous body coagulated."
   Tennant exposed two grains and a half of small diamonds
and a quarter of an ounce of nitre (nitrate of potash) in a
gold tube, connected with a pneumatic apparatus, in a red
heat for an hour and a half : the gas that was given out was
from the decomposition of the nitre, with scarcely a trace of
carbonic acid ; but the residuum, upon careful examination,
had been partly converted into carbonate of potash; the
diamonds had completely disappeared.        Upon analysing the
residuum, as much carbonic acid gas was obtained as would
occupy the space of 10*1 ounces of water.       Upon repeating
 this experiment with another weight of diamonds, he found
 the. proportions as 10'3 of carbonic acid to two grains and
 a half of diamond : two grains and a half of charcoal would
 have given ten of carbonic acid.
                               N3                           That

198                          On Gems.
    That oxygen gas assists materially in the combustion of
the diamond, has been proved by some experiments made
by the London Philosophical Society *. These experiments
were suggested by Mr. Francillon, who supplied the stones
for that purpose from his cabinet.
    A diamond weighing ££ths of a carat was exposed to the
action of a stream of oxygen gas upon ignited charcoal : in
one minute and fifty seconds it was found to have lost -$ths
of its original weight ; it had also lost its figure, transpa*
rency, and polish.     The unconsumed portion was cut after
the experiment, and exhibited exactly the same lustre as
before.
    Several others were tried, with the same results : one,
which was accidentally thrown from the charcoal, was seen
distinctly burning during its passage through the air; the
flame was of a blueish pearl colour, and nearly 3-4ths of an
inch in length.
    Guyton has proved, by a series of experiments on the
diamond in oxygen gas, exposed to the action of the con
centrated rays from the sun, that this substance is one of
 the purest forms of carbon; and that the other known
classes of carbonaceous bodies are in intermediate states of
oxygenation, which to a certain degree increases their com
bustibility, and power of decomposing the air.
    The difference between the degrees of temperature neces
 sary for the comhustion of the diamond and charcoal are
 as 188 to 2765 of a Wedgwood's scale.
    Charcoal set on fire in oxygen gas does itself maintain
 the temperature necessary for its combustion ; but the com
 bustion of the diamond ceases as soon as it is no longer
 maintained by the heat of the furnace, or the concentration
 of the solar rays.
    The diamond requires for its complete combustion a
 much greater quantity of oxygen than charcoal does, and
 likewise produces more carbonic acid; for one part of char
 coal absorbs 2"527 of oxygen, and produces 3*575 of car
 bonic acid. But one part of the diamond absorbs somewhat
 more than four of oxygen, and really produces five of car
 bonic acid.
    The diamond is the pure state of carbon. Plumbago is
 its first state of oxidatton ; charcoal its second ; gaseous
 oxide of carbon its third ; and carbonic acid its completion.
    Guyton, to prove the carbonaceous property of the dia
 mond, converted soft iron into steel by cementation with
                * See Philosophical Magazine, vol. viii.
 .    .                           .' .                       It.

                          On Gems.                         I99
k.     Mushet converted the iron into the same state without
the diamond being present.        Mackenzie supports Guyton,
and denies that this could have been done without the pre
sence of some carbonaceous matter in the crucibles. Mushet
says that carbon penetrates the crucibles at these elevated
temperatures : and thus the experiment rests.
    The substance of diamonds is lamellatcd, consisting of
very thin plates like those of talc, but extremely haul and
intimately united, whose direction lapidaries must find out,
not only to cleave the ill-shaped stones, hut to cut and shape
them properly.        This last operation is performed by rub
bing one diamond with another till it has acquired the
shape ; it is afterwards polished on a horizontal wheel of
steel, employing the same powder that falls from their rub
bings with common olive oil.
    Jeffries calculates the mean value of diamonds by multi
plying the square of their weight in carats by two pounds
sterling, when the diamond is rough or uncut $ but if it is
already cut, the simple square of their weight must be mul
tiplied by eight pounds sterling.: this great difference in
price proceeds from the great loss which a diamond suffers
in being cut.
     The two first of the following diamonds are uncnt, the
other six are cut diamonds :
     1st. The greatest diamond that -ever was known in the
world is one belonging to the king of Portugal, which was
found in Brasil ; it is still uncut : it was of a larger size,
but a piece was cleaved or broken off by the ignorant coun
tryman who chanced to find this great gem, and tried its
hardness by the stroke of a large hammer on an anvil.
    This prodigious diamond weighs 1660 carats: if we em
 ploy to value it the general rule above mentioned, this great
 gem must be worth at least 5,644,600 pounds sterling,
 which are the product of 1680- by two pounds.
     2d. The diamond which adorns the imperial sceptre of
 Russia, under the eagle at the top of  it,  weighs 779 carats,
 and is   worth at least 4,854,7-28 pounds sterling, although
it   hardly cost 135,417 guineas. This diamond was one of
 the eyes of   a    Malabanan idol, named Scheringham.        A
 French grenadier, who had ¦deserted from the Indian ser
 vice, contrived so well as to become one of the priests of
 that idol, from which he had the opportunity to steal its
 eye: he ran away to the English at Tricinapalli, and
 thence to Madras.         A ship captain bought it  of him for
 20,000 rupees; afterward   a    Jew gave 18,000 pounds ster
 ling for it
           :    at last
                    a     Greek merchant, named Gregory Suf-
                                N
                                4                          fras,

200                             On Gens,
fras, offered it to sale at Amsterdam, and the late prince
Orloff bought it of him for the empress of Russia.
   3d. The diamond of the great mogul is cut in rose,
weigh* 279-rV carats, and is worth 380,000 guineas.
   4th. Another of the king of Portugal,, which is cut,
weighs 215 carats, is extremely fine, and worth at least
369,800 guineas.
   5th. The diamond of the grand duke of Tuscany, now
of the emperor of Germany, weighs lSftJ- carats, and is
valued at 109,520 guineas.
   6tb. The d.amond of the late king of France, called the.
Pitt or Regent, weighs 1 36| carats : this gem i» worth
208,333 guineas.      It was sold by governor Pitt to the
duke of Orleans for 135,000 pounds.
   7th. The other diamond of the same monarch called the.
Grand Sancis, weighs 55 carats *, and cost 25,000 guineas.
   8th. The diamond called the Pigot weighs 47$ carats*
valued at 20,000 guineas : parted with by the Pigot family
by lottery in 1800.
                               The Rahj.
    The ruby is a precious stone of a fine full red colour,
electrical by friction, giving fire with steel ; the most pan-»
derous and the hardest of the preeious, stones after the dia.-
mond : it crystallizes in long hexaedral pyramids applied
base to base without an intermediate prism .
    Its specific gravity is from 3*18 to 4-283. It is not vi
trified in the fire without addition, and even resists the ac
tion of the burning mirror.         Flame urged by oxygen gas
easily fuses it.    It goes not lose its colour at the degree of
heat which is sufficient to melt iron.      The borate of soda
and microcosmic salt fuse          it,
                                   and give    transparent glass
                                                     a
of pale green colour with the mineral or vegetable alkali
     a                     :
the glass is opake, and of various colours.
    A perfect ruby above 3^ carats weight more valuable  is
than     diaip.ond equally heavy.
         a                            If weighs one carat,
                                            it                  it   is
worth 10 guineas; two carats, 40 guineas; three carats,
150 guineas  ;   ifsix carats, above 1000 guineas.
    There are 108 rubies in th.e throne of the great mogul,
which from their weight are called carbuncles; they are
from 100 to 200 carats each.
    The varieties of the ruby are called the oriental ruby, the.
spinclle ruby, the balass ruby, and the rubicelle.     The first
}3  of deep red colour the second of bright com poppy-
         a                 ;                     a
                          Chaptal says 106 carats,
                      *
                                                              flower

                               On Gems.                           20.1
 flavor colour; the third a pale red inclining to violet; and
 the fourth of a reddish yellow colour.
    Vauquelin's analysis of the oriental ruby gives
             •Alumine                      -       86-00
              Magnesia               -     <»       8*50
              Chromic acid           *     *        3-25
                                                   99-75
                             The Sapphire.
    The sapphire is     a precious stone of a transparent blue co
lour,   and   is  the  hardest  next the ruby : the oriental sap
phire   and  that   of Puy  have the form of two very long hexa-
edral pyramids, joined, and opposed base to base without
the interposition of a prism.          Sapphires have been found
of a rhomboidal form.
    The specific gravity of the sapphire of Puy is in propor
tion to water as 40*769 to 10*000; that of the white sap
phire is as 39*911 ; and the Brasilian as 31*307.
    The sapphires from d'Expaily have a green tinge, and
change in the fire in the same manner as those of the Bra-
sils ; whereas the oriental sapphire is not altered in our fur
naces.    The action of oxygen gas upon this stone gives a
perfect white opake globule.
    A good sapphire of ten carats is valued at 50 guineas ;         if
it weigh twenty carats, its value is 200 guineas ; but under
ten carats it may be valued by multiplying the carat at tea
shillings and sixpence into the square of its weight.
    They are found, as well as rubies, in the East Indies,
Brasil, Hungary, Silesia, Bohemia, and also in Siberia.
    The analysis by Bergman and by Klaproth :
            Bergman.                         Klaproth.
      Silex     i   t   35        Alumine        -     -  98*50
      Alumine       -   58         Oxide  of iron      -    1*00
      Lime          -     5        Lime      -                50
      Iron t        -     2
                                                         100
                       100
                             The Emerald.
   /The emerald is a gem       of a fine, full, transparent green
colour, electrical by friction. It is next in hardness after
the topaz.       The Peruvian emerald crystallizes in hexaedral
prisms truncated^ flat at each extremity.           Crystals of erne

SO*                           On Gems.
raid are frequently found inserted in the gangues of quartz,
and even of fluor.        . .                                     .
    Its specific gravity compared with that of water is as
27*755 to 10-000.
    The emeralds which come from America are called occi
dental : Peru and the Brasils afford the most beautiful.
                         ...
    The emerald melted in the furnace of Pott : it was spee
dily fused by the mirror: oxygen gas fuses it in a white
milky bubble tinged with green.
    The emerald analysed by Vauquelin afforded
                Silex                        64*60
                Alumine         -'     -     14-0O
                Glucine         -      -     13-00
                Chrome          -      -      3-50
                Lime     -                    2*56
                                             94-66
                             The Topaz.
    The topaz is a precious stone of a fine golden yellow co
lour. The oriental topaz takes the octaedral form : the Bra
zilian crystallizes in rhomboidal tetraedral prisms, grooved
longitudinally : they are terminated by two tetraedral py
ramids with smooth triangular faces.           The Saxon topaz
exhibits long suboctaedral prisms, terminated by hexaedral
pyramids more or less terminated at their base.
    The specific gravity of the oriental is as 40-106 to 10-000 j
that of the Brasilian 35-365 to 10-000.
    The topaz is not fused in the porcelain furnace ; but both
the Oriental and the Brasilian are fused, and lose their colour
 for a white opake mass, by oxgen gas.
    The topaz analysed by Vauquelin gave
                   Silex      -      -   -      6a
                   Alumine         -     -      31
  '   -•  •   *
                                                99   •       .
                          The Hyacinth.
    The hyacinth is a stone of a fine reddish yellow colour j
it is usually crystallized in the form of a rectangular tetra
edral prism, terminated by two quadrangular pyramids with
 rhombic faces.
    Its specific gravity compared with water is     as  36-873 to
 10000,
                                                               It

                            On Gem.                             S93
   It loses its colour in the fire : with oxygen gas it is fused
into a globule resembling bottle glass.
    Hyacinths are found in Poland, in Bohemia, in Saxony,
Velay, &c.
    Modern analysis has classed the jargon of Ceylon with
this stone, the analysis of which is given by Klaproth and
Vauquelin :
               Hyacinth.                  J?rgon of Ceylon.
       Zirconia    - -     68-Q        Zirconia      •»   70"O
       Silex    -  - -     31'$        Silex     - - 25/Q
       Nickel  and iron     0*5        Oxide of iron        o-5
                          100-0                           95-5
                  The Beryl, or Aqua Marina,
    Is a precious stone of a blueish green colour: the Saxon
as   well as the Siberian crystallize in hexaedral, striated,
truncated prisms of a lamellated texture.           This stone is
 also found at Baltimore, in America.
    Its specific gravity is 35-489 for the oriental, 27*227 for
 the occidental.
    It yielded, upon analysis by Vauquelin,
               Silex      -       -    -      69
               Aluminc          -      -       13
               Glucine      -     -    -       16
               Oxide of iron        -  -        1*5
                                              99-5
    The violet-coloured amethyst, the crimson garnet, the pale
 blue water sapphire, the girasol, the jacinth, and the chry
 solite, do not offer us any thing new, considered in a che
 mical point of view : they are also stones of an inferior va
 lue to those we have spoken of, which by their lustre Ajnd
 superior hardness have obtained the first place in the cabinet
 of the virtuoso,
                                                      XXXIY. 0/

                                [   204    J
  XXXIV. Of the          general Relation between the Specific Gra*
      vities and t Ik Strengths and Values of Spirituous Liquors,
     and the Circumstances by tvkich the former are influenced*
                     [Continued from vol. xri. p. 31*.}
                        Of Mr. Gilpin's      Tables.
 §   28.  It   appears that the importance of the subject of the
 present essay has long since been universally acknowledged,
 and that it has accordingly at various periods attractea the
 attention of the legislature. Shortly after the passing the act
 27 Geo.      III. c. 31, already mentioned in § 18, an applica
 tion    was   made    by government to sh Joseph Banks, bart.,
 president'of the Royal Society, to put the matter in such a
 train of investigation as might lead to the ascertaining of
 the actual relative values of spirituous liquors, and the con
 sequent just appreciation of the duties to be paid in respect
 ©f them.       Sir Charles Blagden, who was at that time the
 secretary     of  that" learned body, was accordingly requested
 to assist in this business, and draw up a report of the results
 of such experiments as should have been made with regard
to the subject, and which Dr. Dollfuss, a Swiss gentleman,
at that time in London, was engaged to perform.                He ac
 cordingly     tried a  vast number   of  experiments   for ascertain
ing the effects of combination and temperature under all
             circumstances on the specific gravities pf spirituous
  iquors. The general course of experiments was made with
ftossible
malt spirit ; but he tried also several comparative ones with
such as had been rectified from rum and brandy, and found
no otlier difference than such as might be fairly ascribed to.
unavoidable errors.
     Upon examining the whole series'of Dr. Dolfuss's results,
it was afterwards perceived, however, that though the num
bers as tabulated agreed tolerably well upon the whole, yet
there was in some places found a sufficient degree of irre
gularity in the progression of the first differences to render
it adviseable to repeat several of the experiments ; and Dr.
Dollfuss leaving England about that time, the business of
this repetition was entrusted to Mr. Gilpin, clerk of the
Royal Society.         This gentleman had already participated in
the work, by assisting Dr. Dollfuss in the former experi
ments, particularly in the very nice operation of weighing
the mixtures ; his skill, accuracy, and patience, being well
known to the society in general. Mr. Gilpin became in
terested in the business j one experiment led on to another,
              • »
   .    . >                                                        and

     On the Strengths and Values   of Spirituous Liquors.    2o#
fend  he was at length induced to go through the whole series
knew.      Of the results of these experiments sir Charles
Blagden laid a report before the society, which was read
the 22d of April 1790; and afterwards a supplementary re
port, which was read the 28th of June 1792.             To state
every thing of importance which they contain, they must
be copied verbatim : we shall however endeavour, with as
much perspicuity as we can, to trace the outlines of their
contents.
     The spirit at first employed by Mr. Gilpin was furnished
him by Dr. Dollfuss, under whose inspection it had beer*
rectified from rum supplied by government : its specific gra
vity at 60° was 825-14. That which he afterwards used was
distilled for the purpose by Mr. Schmeisser, who brought
some of it to the specific gravity of 817; and its agreement
with the former with respect to its specific gravity, when
 diluted and subjected to change of temperature, was tried
 before it was employed in the experiments. The spirit,
 however, which they thought proper to assume as what ap
 peared to them       a convenient standard of value, was that
              '
 which has the specific gravity of 825 at 60° ; and the
 stronger alcohol which they used was therefore previously
 diluted with distilled water to that degree of strength.
     The mixtures were made by weight, as the only accurate
 method of fixing the proportions.      It was conceived that,
 in fluids of such very unequal expansions by heat as water
 and alcohol, if measures had been employea, it would not
 only have been necessary to make a different mixture for
 every different degree of heat, but the proportions of the
 masses would have been sensibly irregular; and the object in
  view was to determine the real quantity of spirit in any given
 mixture, abstracting the consideration of its temperature.
  Another principal consideration was, that with a very nice
 balance, such as was employed on this occasion, quantities
  would be determined to much greater exactness by weight
 than by any practicable way of measurement i the propor
  tions were therefore always taken by weight. A phial being
 .provided of such a size as that it should be nearly filled with
 the mixture, was made perfectly clean and dry ; and, being
  counterpoised, as much of the pure spirit of of distilled
  water as appeared necessary was poured into it. The weight
  of this spirit or water was then ascertained, and the water
  or spirit required to make a mixture of the intended pro
  portions was calculated. This quantity of fluid was then
  added with all the necessary care, the last portions being
          5                                                   put

  806       Relation between tfie Specific Gravities and
  put in by means of a well known instrument, which is
  composed of a small dish terminating in a tube drawn to
  a fine point : the top of the dish being covered with the
  thumb, the liquor, in it is prevented from running out
  through the tube by the, pressure of the atmosphere, but
  instantly begins to issue hydrops, or in a very small stream,
  upon raising the thumb. The liquor lastly added being thus
  introduced into the phial till it exactly counterpoised the
  weight, which, having been previously computed, was put
  into the opposite scale, the phial was shaken, and then well
  stopped with its glass stopple, over which leather was tied
  very tight to prevent evaporation.                 ,
     In this manner 100 parts by weight oT spirit, of the last-
  mentioned specific gravity of 825 at 60° being first put into
  the bottle, five parts by weight of distilled water were added,
  so as to form a compound in these proportions.            In the
 next experiment 10 parts of water were added to 100 by
 weight of the spirit ; in the next, 1 5 ; in the next, 20 ; and
 so on, increasing the weight of water by five parts in eachj
 until 100 parts, or an equal weight of water, were added to
  the spirit.    One hundred parts of water by weight wer£
 then taken as the invariable quantity, and 5, 10, 15, 20,
 &c, parts of the same spirit successively added, so as to
 produce 20 more weaker compounds ; the last, or 100 to
  100, being equal in strength to the last of the former series.
 No mixture was used till it had remained in the phial at
 least a month, for the full penetration to have taken place j
 and it was always well shaken before it was poured out to
 have its specific gravity tried.
    The mode of performing this operation which these gen
 tlemen preferred on this occasion, was that of actually
weighing the liquor in a vessel which was capable of being
 at all times equally filled to a great degree of exactness, hav
ing first ascertained its weight when so filled with distilled
water. It was a hollow glass ball, terminating in a neck,
which was formed of a portion of barometer tube l-4th
of an inch in diameter, and IX inch long. That used by
Dr. Dollfuss contained, when filled to a mark cut round
the neck with a diamond for that purpose, 5800 grains of
distilled water; but the one afterwards preferred by Mr.
Gilpin was smaller, and contained when so filled only 2965
grains of the same fluid at C0°. The bottle itself weighed
016 grains, and with its silver cap 036. Its bulb Was about
2'8 inches in diameter; and Mr. Gilpin found, that on fill
ing it several times ?ucccs^ivelv to the same mark at equal
                                                   temperatures/

       the Strengths and Values    of Spirituous Liquors.       207
temperatures, and with every possible precaution, the quan
tities of fluid by weight did not appear to differ more than
about -rjforcth of the whole.
    The Dottle being filled nearly to the mark, the liquor was
then brought to the required temperature, as ascertained by
a thermometer made for the purpose by the late Mr. Rams-
den, and graduated to fifths of a degree of Fahrenheit's
scale, which was introduced through the neck into the li
quor, its bulb being only -22 of an inch in diameter. The
neck was then filled quite up to the mark with more of the
same liquor at the same degree of heat, and the whole
weighed in that state.      This was performed at every five
degrees    of temperature.      The first temperature at which
the liquor was weighed was 60°; it was then gradually
cooled down to 55°, 50, 45, &c, and, lastly, to 30°; after,
which its temperature was in like manner raised to 100°, it
being again weighed at every five degrees ; and, lastly, it was
 again cooled down to 60°, at which temperature it was
 weighed a third time, and the process terminated with re
 spect to that compound.
    The balance was that of the society, made by the late
 Mr. Ramsden, and of which some account may be found
 in the 33d volume of the Journal de Physique.             It was so
 exceedingly   sensible, that  the fiftieth  part of a grain consi
 derably deranged   the  position  of  the beam   when  loaded with
 the scales and their contents in these operations.
    From this course of experiments Mr. Gilpin afterwards
 computed a voluminous set of tables, which are published
in the Philosophical Transactions for the year 1 794. They
 occupy 100 quarto pages closely printed ; each page being
 divided in the middle, so as to be virtually extended to twice
 its length.
    They are calculated for every degree of temperature, from
 30° to 80° of Fahrenheit's thermometer, the results at each
 of which occupy two of these pages, the degree of heat
 standing at the head of each.
    The left hand page contains those belonging to all com
 pounds of 100 parts by weight of alcohol of the specific
 gravity of 825 at 60°, with every integral proportion of water
 also by weight from 0 to 100 ; and the right hand page those
 belonging to all compounds of 100 parts by weight of wa
 ter, with every proportion of such alcohol also by weight
 from 0 to 100.     These mixtures by weight constitute Co
 lumn I in each table, which is entitled accordingly, on the
left hand page, " Spirit and Water by Weight," and on
 the right hand page,    "  Water and Spirit by Weight."
                                                            Column

 !?08     "Relation ietween. the Specific Gravities and)
     Column   II,
               of al! the tables, gives the specific gravities
of the corresponding mixtures of spirit ana water in Co
lumn I, compared with that of distilled water at 60°.
  In Column         III,
                   100 parts by measure of pure spirit, at
 the temperature marked on the top of every separate table,
 is assumed as the constant standard number to which the
 respective quantities of water by measure at the same tem
 perature are to be proportioned m the next column.          It is
 entitled "   Spirit by Measure.*'
     Column IV therefore, which is entitled           "
                                                      Water by
 Measure," contains the proportion of water to 100 mea
 sures of spirit, answering to the proportions by weight in
the same horizontal line ni Column I.
    Column V shows the number of parts which the quan
tities of spirit and water contained in the third and fourth
columns would measure when the mixture has been com
pleted ; that  is,  the bulk of the whole compound after the1
concentration or mutual penetration has fully taken place.
It entitled " Bulk of Mixture."
     is
    Column VI gives the effect of that concentration, or
how much smaller the volume of the whole mixture           isthan
it  would be  if  there was no such principle as the mutual
penetration.    It   isentitled " Diminution of Bulk."
    Column VII shows the quantity of pure spirit           by
                                                            mea
sure, at the temperature in the table, contained in 100 mea
sures of the mixture laid down in the fifth column; and           i$
entitled " Quantity of Spirit per Cent."
    And, lastly, Column VIII, entitled " Decimal Multi
pliers," gives the proportion    by  measure of the beforemen-
tioned spirit, when reduced to 60° of heat, which           con
                                                           is
tained in any measure of each compound,          ifmeasured at
the temperature expressed at the head of the table, pursuant
to the idea suggested in sir Charles Blagden's report, that
"   the simplest and most equitable method of levying the
duty on spirituous liquors would be to consider rectified
spirit as the true and only exciseable matter."
   The whole of these tables, therefore, contain, as appears
by   the foregoing account of them, no less than 80,000 de
ductions from experiment or calculation.         It  difficult to
                                                      is
speak    with sufficient praise  of this work: those  only who
have been in the habit of conducting similar operations are
at all capable of appreciating labours like these.
    §  29. There seems to be no doubt of the authenticity of
the experiments on which these tables are founded.         They
weTe, repeated again and again with extreme care, with the
most exquisite instruments, and with great knowledge of
                                                                the

      the   Strength and           Values    of Spirituous Liquors.       209
the subject ; and, if it be not presumptuous in us to make
the assertion, they stand strongly confirmed by our own
experiments with respect to these matters.
    It appears, therefore, at first sight, rather extraordinary
that a work which does so much honour to the country
should not be more generally known arid understood than
this is; and  is, perhaps, only to be attributed to two causes.
    Firstly, The arrangement of the tables      confessedly
                                                        is                 in
convenient: the entering them with the quantities of spirit
and water    by weight,     proportion which
                               (a                 in no case the
                                                         is
primary result of an experiment for the examination of                      a
spirituous compound^ and can only be deduced from calcu
lation founded on its specific gravity and temperature), ren
ders them ill adapted to general purposes.
    Secondly^ They are calculated on the supposition that
the recommendation of sir Charles Blagden, to consider
alcohol of the specific gravity of 825 at 60s as the true and
only exciseable matter, would be adopted by the govern
ment and though they therefore give the equivalent quan
    ;
tities of spirit of this kind to the respective quantities of
the several compounds which are there mentioned, yet
they do not give the equivalent quantities of the present
proof.
    Though   it   with diffidence that the authors of this tract
                  is
venture to differ from those gentlemen who have already
displayed in the above work so intimate an acquaintance
with the subject, yet they cannot help saying, that, from
the opportunities which they have had of observing the
practical course of this business, they have always rather
been of opinion that      would be more convenient to fix on
                             it
«ome strength which most frequently occurs in commerce
as the standard for that of spirituous liquors in
                                                   general, than
bne which considerably differs from that of those usually
found in the market.               new race of men who can
                                   It   is
                                        a
alone derive advantage from improvements founded on any
considerable innovation in habits or modes of thinking and            ;
they are therefore always accompanied with practical incon
veniences and errors, which their authors aid not consider
them as likely to be productive of. The thing in itself                     is
arbitrary but so are our weights and measures, and mo
         :
nies of account    ;and yet what confusion should we create
amongst busy, bustling, ignorant men,                 if
                                               we were to abo
lish our present system, and introduce new ones              ap  !    It
pears, therefore, to the writers of this essay, that the most
convenient degree of strength which can be assumed as                       a
  Vol. XVII.           No.   67.            O                     standard

210             On the Preparation      of Indian Ink.
standard    of comparison will       be one which does not differ
exceedingly    from   that  of which    we have hitherto had some
indefinite idea.      . .
   § 30. It must be recollected, however, that this circum
stance, though it may render these tables less convenient
tor practical use, by no means lessens their value, consi
dered as a register of experimental results.           It is true, they
will not give an answer with respect to equivalent quanti
ties of liquors of all strengths by mere inspection ; but we
can deduce from them, by calculation,                any information
respecting this subject which we may be desirous of ob
taining.
   The modes of doing this will, of course, easily occur to
the mathematical reader : we shall, however, make no apo
logy for presenting the public with rules and examples for
finding from these tables a solution of almost every question
which can occur in the course of practice, on the supposi
tion that proof spirit is of the specific gravity of 920 at 60°,
and that the mode of comparison employed is that recom
mended in § 2(j ; and which, mutatis mutandis, will also be
applicable to any other standard which may be adopted,
They have been of some advantage to the authors in the
course of their trade, and they wilt probably not be useless
to society.
                           [To  be continued.]
XXXV.        On the Preparation of Indian Ink ; presenting an
   east/   and  expeditious   Method of providing a Substitute
   possessing all its valuable Properties.        By Thomas Gill,
   Esq.
                          To  Mr. Tilloch.
      * .-
I
     SIR,                                        London, Nov. 15, igoj.
  w a former communication * I mentioned that the Chi
nese mixed their water colours up with parchment size: I
am now able to furnish you with a confirmation of that
fact, in a discovery I made a few days since, of a composi
tion possessing all the valuable properties of Indian ink,
w Inch is as follows :
   Boil parchment slips, or cuttings of glove leather, in
water until it forms a size, which on being suffered to
                    '
                       Sic our last volume,  p. z-i.
                                                                   cool

                    On the Preparation    bf Indian Ink.               21 1
tool      becomes     of  the   consistence of jelly*: then, having
blackened an earthen plate or dish by holding it over the
flame of a candle, mix up, with a camel hair pencil, the
fine lamp-black thus obtained, with some of the above size,
while the plate is still warm. This black requires no grind
ing, and produces an ink of the very same colour, which
works as freely with the pencil, and is as perfectly transpa
rent, as the Dest Indian ink : it possesses the advantage of
famishing artists, &c. with a substitute for that article,
which may be prepared in situation* where it might be dif
ficult to obtain the ink itself.
      If a larger quantity is required, lamp-black obtained from
the smoke of oil, tallow, &c. (that sold in the shops being
too coarse for the purpose,) may be formed into a mass
with the size ; to which a little spirituous extract of musk
may be added, to give it the smell of Indian Ink. When
it has obtained a proper consistence it may be pressed into
 moulds to form it into sticks, which, when dry, will be
 found to agree with the real Indian ink in its property of
 rubbing smoothly on the finger nail when wetted, and reav
 ing the surface polished on becoming dry; and, in short,
 differing from it in one trifling circumstance only, namely,
 that the genuine Indian ink has a yellowish metallic lustre
 when dry, which may probably be owing to the mixture of
 some oily or saponaceous substance, possibly ox gall : this,
 however, is entirely needless.
       I trust that we shall now be no more misled by the
 strange accounts most writers have given of the fabrication
 of Indian ink from the ink of the cuttle fish, burnt fish
 bones, burnt peach stones, extract of liquorice, &c. &c. ;
.when it appears that the above two simple substances are
  fully sufficient to produce an ink possessing every good pro
 perty that can be desired.           I am, Sir,
                                     Your most obedient servant,
                                                        Thomas <xill.
      * If it is
                 thought too much trouble to prepare the p irehment s'tie, a
  solution of good common carpenter's glue, of the cortsirtciR-e deicrtbcii,
                                                              •
  •-iiiy be employed in its s.tcad.
                                    O 2                     XXXVI. An

                             [    212   ]
XXXVI. An         Account  of   some Experiments       and 01 serra
    tions on the constituent Parts of certain astringent Vege
    tables ; and on their Operation in Tanning.             By Hum
   phry Davt, Esq. Professor of Chemistry in the Royal-
   Institution.
                       [Continued from  p. 76.]           ,
  III.   Experiments    and Observations     on Catechu       or Terra
                              Japonica.
 JL HE extract called catechu is said to be obtained from the
wood of a species of the mimosa*, which is found abun
dantly in India, by decoction and subsequent evaporation.
   There are two kinds of this extract ; one is sent from
Bombay, the other from Bengal ; and they differ from each
other more in their external appearance than in their che
mical composition.        The extract from Bombay is of an
uniform texture, and of a red brown tint, its specific gra
vity being generally about 1*39. The extract from Bengal
is more friable, and less consistent; its colour is like that
of chocolate externally, but, when broken, its fracture pre
sents streaks of chocolate and of red brown.               Its specific
gravity is about 1'2S. Their tastes are precisely similar,
being astringent, but leaving in the mouth a sensation of
sweetness.      They do not deliquesce, or apparently change,
by exposure to the air.
   The discovery of the tanning powers of catechu is owing
to the president of the Royal Society, who, concluding from
its sensible properties that it contained tannin, furnished
me, in December 1801, with a quantity for chemical exa
mination.
    In my first experiments, I found that the solutions of
catechu copiously precipitated gelatine, and speedily tanned
skin ; and, in consequence, I began a particular investiga
tion of their properties.                       v
   The strongest infusions and decoctions of the two dif
ferent kinds of catechu do not sensibly differ in their na
ture, or in their composition.          Their colour is deep red
brown, and they communicate this tinge to paper; they
slightly redden litmus paper; their taste is highly astrin
gent, and they have no perceptible smell.
   The strongest infusions that I could obtain from the two
kinds of catechu, at 48° Fahrenheit, were of the same spe
cific gravity, 1*057 : but, by long decoction, I procured so-
           * See Kerr. Medical Observations,  Vol. V. p. 155.
                                                               "
                                                                lution?

       On the constituent Parts  of astringent VegetaHes.  213
lutions   of 1-102, which    gave,  by evaporation, more than
 l-6th of their weight of solid matter*     ..
    Five hundred grains of the strongest infusion of catechu
from Bombay, furnished only 41 grains of solid matter;
•which, from analysis, appeared to consist of 34 grains of
tannin, or matter precipitable by gelatine, and 7 grains that
were chiefly a peculiar extractive matter, the properties of
which will be hereafter described. The quantity of solid
matter given by the strongest infusion of the Bengal cate
chu was the same, and there was no sensible difference in
its composition.     Portions of these solid matters, when in
cinerated, left a residuum which seemed to be calcareous ;
but it was too small in quantity to be accurately examined,
and it could not have amounted to more than ?£sth of their
original weights.
    The strongest infusions of catechu acted upon the acids
and pure alkalis in a manner analogous to the infusion of
galls* With the concentrated sulphuric and muriatic acids,
they gave dense light fawn-coloured precipitates.         With
strong nitrous acid they effervesced ; and lost their power
of precipitating the solutions of isinglass, and the salts of
 iron. The pure alkalis entered into union with their tan
 nin, so as to prevent it from being acted upon by gelatine.
    When the solutions of lime, ofstrontia, or or barytes,
were poured into the infusions, copious precipitates, of a
shade of light brown, were formed ; and the residual fluid
assumed a paler tint of red, and was found to have lost its
power of precipitating gelatine.
    After lime had been foiled for some time with a portion
of the. infusion, it assumed a dull red colour. The liquor
 that passed from it through the filter had only a faint tint
of red, did not act upon gelatine, and seemed to contain
only a very small portion of vegetable matter.       Pure mag
 nesia, when heated with the infusion, acted upon it in an
analogous manner; the magnesia became light red, and the
residual fluid had only a very slight tinge of that colour.
With carbonate of magnesia, the infusion became deeper
in colour, and lost its power of precipitating gelatine;
though it still gave, with oxygenated sulphate of iron, a
 light olive precipitate.
    The carbonates of potash, of soda, and of ammonia, in
 their concentrated solutions, produced only a slight degree
 of turbidness in the infusion of catechu : they communi
 cated to them a darker colour, and deprived them of the
  power of acting upon gelatine ; though this power was re
 stored by the addition of an acid.
                               O  3                       After

•1*            Experiments and Observations       on the
     After  the mixture of the solution of carbonate of potash,
and the infusions had been exposed to the atmosphere for
some hours, a brown crust was found to have formed upon
its surface, and a slight precipitation had taken place.
     The salts of alumine precipitated the infusions, but less
copiously than they precipitate the infusion of galls. A k
similar effect was produced by nitrate of potash, sulphate
of magnesia, prussiate of potash, and many other neutral'
 .'-alts.
     The nitrate, or aeetite, of lead, in concentrated solution,
when poured into the infusion produced in it a dense light
brown precipitate, which gave to the fluid a gelatinous ap
 pearance.      After this effect, there was no free acid found
 in it; and both the tannin and the extractive matter seemed
 to have been carried down in union with a portion of the
 metallic salt.
      The solution of muriate of tin acted upon the infusion "of
  catechu in a manner similar to that in which it acts upon
  the infusion of galls.
        The least oxygenated sulphate of iron produced no
  change in the infusion.         With the most oxygenated sul
  phate it gave a dense black precipitate, which, when dif
  fused upon paper, appeared rather more inclined tottrftv
  than the precipitate from galls.
      The infusions were precipitated by the solution of al
  bumen.
      The precipitates by gelatine had all a pale tint of red
  brown, which became deeper when they were exposed to
  the air.    The compound of gelatine and the tannin of the
   strongest infusions of catechu appeared, bv estimation of
   the quantity of isinglass in the. solutions used for their pre-'"
   cipitati«n, to consist of about 41 parts of tannin and 59 of
   gelatine.
       Of two pieces of calf-skin which weighed, when dry,
   132 grains each, and which had been prepared for tanning,
   one was immersed in a large quantity of the infusion of
   catechu from Bengal, and the other in an equal portion of
   the infusion of that from Bombay.           In less than a month
   thev were   found  converted   into leather.    When freed froivi
   moisture, by long exposure in the sunshine, thev were
   weighed. The first piece had gained about 34 grains, and
   the second piece 35^ grains.        The leather was of a much
   deeper   colour than that  tanned   with galls, and on the upper
   surface was red brown.       It was not acted on by hot or cold
   water; and its apparent strength was the same as that of
   similar leather tanned in the usual manner.
                                                                  In

          constituent        Parts of astringent       Vegetables.                  2   la
    In examining  the remainder of the infusions of catechu,
in which skin  had been converted into leather, I found in
them much less extractive matter than had reason to ex I
pect, from the comparative analysis of equal portions of
the unaltered infusions made by solutions of gelatine. At
first, I was inclined to suppose that the deficiency arose
from the action of the atmosphere upon the extractive mat
ter, by which a part of it was rendered insoluble.    But, on
Considering that there had been very little precipitation in
the process, I was led to adopt the supposition, that it had
entered into union with the skin at the same time with the
tannin ; and tbis supposition was confirmed by new expe
riments.
   Both kinds of catechu are almost wholly soluble in large
quantities of water ; and, to form a complete solution, about
18 ounces of water, at 52°, are required to 100 grains of
extract. The residuum seldom amounts to -jtjth of the ori
ginal weight of the catechu : and, in most cases, it is found
to consist chiefly of calcareous and aluminous earths, and
of fine sand, which, by accident or design, had probably
been mixed with the primitive infusion at the time of it»
evaporation.
     A considerable portion of both kinds of catechu is soluble
 in alcohol ; but, after the action of alcohol upon           sub         it,   a
 stance remains of gelatinous appearance and
                         a                            light brown   a
colour, which       issoluble in water, and      analogous in its
                                                           is
 properties to gum or mucilage.
     The peculiar extractive matter in the catechu           much             is
 leji; soluble in water than the tanning principle      and, when   ;
a   small quantity of water     used to
                                  is       large quantity of ca
                                                   a
techu,    the quantity of tannin taken up, as appears from the
nature of the strongest infusion,       very much greater than
                                              is
that of the extractive matter.
     The extractive matter       much more soluble in warm
                                     is
water than in cold water and, when saturated solutions of
                                 ;
catechu are made in boiling water,        considerable quantity
                                                   a
of extractive matter, in its pure state, falls down as the
liquor becomes cool.
     The peculiar extractive matter of the catechu may be
likewise obtained bv repeatedly lixiviating the catechu, when
m fine powder, till the fluids obtained cease to precipitate
gelatine; the residual solid will then be found to be the
substance in question.
    The pure extractive matter, whether procured from the
Bombay or Bengal catechu, is pale, with            faint tinge of
                                                                a
red brown.     It has no perceptible smell its taste   j  slightly       is
                                     O    4                             astringent  j

216             Experiments and Qlservqtions on the
astringent ; but it leaves in the mouth, for some time, a
sensation of sweetness stronger than that given by the ca
techu itself.
   Its solution in water is at first yellow brown ; but it gains
a tint of red by exposure to the air. Its solution in alcohol
does not materially change colour in the atmosphere ; and
it is of an uniform dull brown,
   The extractive matter, whether solid or in solution, was
not found to produce any change of colour upon vegetable
blues. .
    It became of a brighter colour by the action of the al
kalis ; but it was not precipitated from its solution in water
by these bodies, nor by the alkaline earths.
   The aqueous solution of          when mixed with solutions
                                        it,
of nitrate of alumine and of muriate of tin, became slightly
turbid.
   To nitrate of lead     gaveit   dense light brown precipita
                                        a
tion.
  Is   was not perceptibly acted upon                       by
                                                 solution of gela
tine  ; but, when solution of sulphate of alumine was added
to the mixture of the two fluids,        considerable quantity of
                                               a
solid matter, of light brown colour, was immediately de
                     a
posited.
   To the solution of oxygenated sulphate of iron            com it
municated       afine grass green tint and       green precipitate
                                                   ;        a
was deposited, which became black                      by
                                             exposure to the air.
  It  was not precipitated         by
                                 the mineral acids.
   Linen,       by
                being  boiled  in  the strongest solution of the
extractive matter, acquired         light red brown tint. The
                                        a
liquor    became   almost  colourless   and, after this, produced
                                               ;
very  little change      in
                        the  solution  of oxygenated sulphate of
iron.
   Raw skin, prepared for tanning                      by
                                           being immersed in
the strong solution, soon acquired the same kind of tint as
the linen.      united itself to
                It                part of the extractive mat
                                        by a
ter but
   ;        was not rendered
           it                       insoluble in boiling water.
                                        it
   The solid extractive matter, when exposed to heat, soft
ened, and became darker in its colour, but did not enter
into fusion.   At temperature below that of ignition,
                      a                                                it
was decompounded.       The volatile products of its decom
position were, carbonic acid, hydrocarbonate, and water
holding in solution acetous acid and        little unaltered ex
                                                        a
tractive, matter.  There remained       bght and very porous
                                                   a
charcoal.
   In considering the manner        which the catechu
                                              in             pre  is
pared, would be reasonable to conclude that different spe
          it
                                                          cimens

            constituent   Parts of astringent        Vegetables.       B17
cimens of that substance must differ in some measure in
their composition, even in their pure states ; and, for the
purposes of commerce, they are often adulterated to a con-?
siderable extent with sand and earthy matter *.
    In attempting to estimate the composition of the purest
catechu, I selected pieces from different specimens, with
which     I   was supplied by the president, and reduced them
together into powder ; mixing, however, only those pieces
which were from catechu of the same kind.
   Two hundred grains of the powder, procured in this way
from the catechu of Bombay, afforded by analysis
       Tannin             -           -        -               109 grs.
       Peculiar extractive matter                       -        68
       Mucilage              -                  -       -        13
       Residual matter, chiefly sand and calcareous
          earth           -           -         -        -       10
    The powder      of  the    Bengal catechu gave, by similar me
thods of analysis, in 200 grains,
       Tannin           -         -         -      -      -      97 grs.
       Peculiar extractive matter                -         -     73
       Mucilage            -                                     16
       Residual matter; sand, with a small quan
           tity of calcareous and aluminous earths,                 14
    In examining those parts of the catechu from Bengal
which were differently coloured, I found the largest pro
portion of tannin in the darkest part of the substance ; and
most extractive matter in the lightest part. It is probable
that the inequality of composition in this catechu is owing
to its being evaporated and formed without much agitation ;
in consequence of which the constituent parts of it that are
least soluble, being first precipitated, appear in some mea
 sure distinct from the more soluble parts, which assume
 the solid form at a later period of the process.
                                                   f
     From the observations of Mr. Kerr it would appear that
 the pale catechu is that most sought after in India ; and it
 is evidently that which contains most extractive matter.
 The extractive matter seems to be the substance that gives
 to the catechu the peculiar sweetness of taste which follows
 the impression or astringency ; and it is probably this
 sweetness of taste which renders it so agreeable to the Hin
 doos, for the purpose of chewing with the betle-nut.
                              [To   be  continued.]
    * One specimen that I examined of the terra japonica of commerce,
 furnished, by incineration, one-fifth of sand and, earthy matter ; and an
 other specimen nearly one-sixth.
    f  Medical Observations, vol. v. p. 1 «;.
                                                             XXXVII. Of

                                 (       2T8        J
XXXVII. Of       the   Herring Fishery.                    Translated           from the
           French   of M. Duhamel                       and others'*.
                    Of   the Spawning Seasons.
At   is well known that herrings do not all spawn at the
same time, and it is generally observed that in the years
that the air is mild they spawn sooner than when the sea
son has been very cold. Sometimes, for instance, a great
quantity of shotten herrings is caught in the beginning of
December, whereas in other years great numbers of full
ones are found yi January.   This is a general observation ;
 and if we inquire more particularly into the business, we
 shall find that some herrings spawn much sooner than
 others ; so that in October, when almost all the herrings
 that come into the Channel are full, there are some shotten
 ones found among them.
    Some fisherpien think that in the English sea the
 spawning season is in. October: this may be the case as to
 some herrings, but not as to the greatest number.       "How
 ever, towards the middle of November they take 'shotten
herrings at Yarmouth, though not in as great quantities as
in the Channel, where shotten herrings are sometimes found
in the middle of October. The common opinion               that                      is,
herrings spawn but once        year, and that they come into
                                     a
our seas for that purpose.           certain that they spawn
                                         It    is
 near our coasts; and the condition of the eggs of the
herrings that are taken at Shetland compared with that of
the eggs of those that are taken at Yarmouth and in the
Channel, actually seems to prove that they come into our
seas on purpose to spawn.       Nevertheless,     wc consider         if
the immense quantities of them that come from the north,
we shall be inclined to think that some of them spawn
there.   They are, perhaps, like the bees, that multiply in
their hives, and send out swarms when they become too
numerous.
   Shotten herrings do not constitute    distinct species from
                                                        a
the others. They are those which have discharged their
eggs or milt, and are therefore generally worse than the full
ones, on account of the sickness that they are subject to at
the time of spawning, and because the most of them are
caught before they are recovered, whereas the sreatest part
•f the herrings quit the coasts    short time after they have
                                          a
spawned.
      * From Transactions            Dublin                    vol.
                            of
                             the                    Society,          i.   part a.
                                                                                           Of

                     Of the  Herring Fishery.               219
Of      the Seasons in which Herrings cere found in different
     Places, and    of the Variations that occur in the Courses
     they take.
     In the beginning of spring the inhabitants of the North
take a great quantity of herrings in their own seas. In June
and July the fishery is carried on near the Shetland islands.
In September and October the fishermen take up their quar
ters at the entrance of the German sea, and near the coasts
of the north of England : this is called the Yarmouth fish
ery. When it is over, they follow the herrings into the
 Channel in Ootober, November, and December.              It ap
 pears,    therefore, that  the herrings  come  from  the North
by the Orkney islands, and that, after having touched upon
 the coast of Norway, they cross the North sea to come to
the north of Scotland and England, whence they proceed
through the Streights of Dover into the Channel, where
 the greatest part ot them spawn 5 after which they disap
pear, and several are of opinion that they return to the Nortk
 along the coasts of Ireland.
     It having been observed that the herrings lea%re the North
 towards April or May, the Dutch used formerly to go in
 quest of them near the Island of Helygeland and the coast
 of Norway. But as that fishery often proved but middling,
 they do not set out now until June, at which time they go
 to meet them between Shetland and Newcastle.
           OF  THE HERRING FISHERY IN THE CHANNEL.
  Of the Orders issued ly the French Government not to con
      tinue the Herring Fishery in the Channel after the Month
     of Decemler.
     There are two things that contribute to the prosperity of
 a branch       of commerce. The one consists in meriting the
 confidence of the purchasers, by taking particular care to
 have the article well conditioned, and, above all, in observing
 great fidelity in the expediting of it ; the other consists in
 obtaining a preference by keeping the article at a moderate
             It was with a view to these objects that the Dutch,
 Erice.
    aving perceived that the herrings caught between the rocks
 of Ireland, Shetland, and Norway, were not of a good qua
 lity, have prohibited fishing in those places.        They have
 also made regulations concerning their salt works, so as to
 have salt of a good quality ; and for the purpose of keep
  ing it at a low price, they have not only no salt tax, but
 they even give encouragement to those who carry on salt
                                                          works.

220                  Of the Herring FisJiery.
works.      And in France, the merchants that core salt fisfi
get
fc
      salt at a moderate price, that they may be enabled tc*
sell their fish at nearly the same price that the Dutch do.
For similar reasons regulations have been made concerning
the time that the herring fishery should cease.
    The herrings come from the north of England into the
Channel ; they are certainly poorer there than they were in
the North, or even on what is called the Yarmouth coast.
However, they are still very good, either fresh or salted    j
and, as we have said elsewhere, the fattest herrings are not
the best for salting. The fishing for herrings has therefore
been always allowed, from the time that they come into the
Channel until the latter end of December ; but from that
time it has been prohibited by several orders of government,
We shall now mention the reasons of this prohibition.
    It is certain that a great quantity of herrings spawn in
the Channel, and especially towards the mouth of the Seine,
in the end of the season, whereby they lose much of their
good quality, particularly for salting.    About that period
there are some shotten ones taken that are very good fresh ;
but when they have not had time to recover from the
spawning sickness, they dry up in the salt, and become
what they call horny; whereas in October and November
numbers of them are full and very good, either fresh or
 salted.    This, however, must be understood of what usu
 ally happens ; for there are some late seasons in whioh the
 abundance of shotten herrings does not come on until Ja
 nuary, or even February.      As salt shotten herrings were
 known to be inferior to the full ones, it was prohibited, by
 a decree of March 24, 1687, to continue this fishery after
 the month of December, or to purchase herrings from fo
 reign vessels after that time ; and in confirmation of this,
 prohibition another decree was issued in 1 759, wherein is
 added an order not to bring any such herrings to market j
 which has been since confirmed by several regulations.
    The motives of these prohibitions were, that the herrings
 salted in that season were bad, and that thereby all those of
 the Channel were brought into disrepute; that they were
 unwholesome and caused diseases ; and that the fishing for
 herrings in that season was destructive of the species.
    There were some representations made against these de
 crees, and the fishermen of several ports alleged that her
 rings do not spawn on the coast of Normandy.         But this
 plea could not stand, as it was manifestly false.
    They added, that the Irish dp not prohibit this fishery
                                                            on
         v
              4

                      Of   the   Herring Fishery,                      2$1
   ¦:n their cfdasts,* where there are great quantities of shotten
                 But should the Irish be wrong in allowing
                                                                   it,
   herrings,                                                       it
   does riot follow that the French should imitate thein.
       On the other side, the herring merchants, who applied
   for these prohibitions, had probably their own advantage
  in view, viz. the selling their fish dear, rather than that of
  commerce.         They alleged that shotten herrings were un
   wholesome, and caused diseases.         But thereis    no founda
  tion for this assertion, although      we shall readily grant that
  they are not as pleasing food as full herrings.
      And as to the third plea, viz. that the fishing for her
   rings after December was destructive of the species,           was
                                                                  it
a    very nugatory one, not only because the quantity of her
  rings that the fishermen can take           mere trifle compared
                                          is
                                          a
-
  with the immense quantities of them that are destroyed                by
  multitudes of fish that feed upon thein, but also because,
  were the multiplication of the species to be considered,              it
  would be much more proper to prohibit the fishing for full
  herrings.
      The only plausible reason for making the above-men
  tioned regulations was, that, as shotten herrings are not as
  good as hill ones when salted,       it  was to be apprehended,
  thatif     the taking and salting them were allowed        it would
  bring    all the salted herrings of  the Channel   into  disrepute    ;
  which would be very hurtful to trade.           But still
                                                         it
                                                         is      hard
  that the poor should be deprived of an article of food which
  could be procured very cheap.
      The fishermen of Dieppe, having represented that her
  rings were absolutely necessary for baiting their hooks, have
  obtained leave to fish for them with few small boats, under
                                            a
  condition of cutting off the heads and tails of such as they
  should Lake. This favour has been granted also to some
  other ports. Now,    if   a   regulation of this kind were gene
  rally adopted, it     would be of great service to the fishermen
  and to the poor, without injuring the herring trade.           For,
 by    taking care that the heads of such herrings as are caught
  after December should be cut off,       it will be easy to distin
  guish the good ones from those of an inferior kind, and the
  purchasers of salt herrings will be sure not to be imposed
upon.
Ofthje Circumstances       thought to be favourable to the Herring
                               Fishery.
  The fishery  expected to be good, when after
                 is                                troubled
                                                         a
sea there comes on    calm, accompanied with
                           a                        mist or
                                                         a
thick fog  ;   when the wind blows from the north or north
                                                      west,

 See                   Of   the   Herring Fishery*
  west, or rather from that part of the horizon whence the
  herrings usually come : for in these cases they come sooner
  and in greater numbers to our coasts.      Those winds .gene
  rally blow from a northern direction, and are the same that
 bring woodcocks to our coasts ; and therefore it is supposed
  that the herring season will be good, when there is plenty
 of woodcocks.
     When a great number of sea birds assemble in any par
 ticular place, it is an almost certain sign that there is abun
                                                                  '
 dance of herrings there.     It is also a good sign to catch
 sea dogs, as they follow the herrings to feed upon them'.
 Another good sign          is,
                           when the water      agitated to
                                                        is   cer-.        a
 tain depth; likewise when there are fat or greasy spots
 floating like oil upon the sea, when not much troubled.
     Lights kept in the fishing boats are rather serviceable
 than hurtful to the fishery, but great lights coming from
•land drive the fish away*          also to be observed that the
                                   It    is
 ebbing or flowing of the tide          immaterial, but that the
                                              is
 greatest quantity of fish      usually caught when the water
                                  is
 is smooth.
Of     the Pec Herrings,          or those taken most           early     in   the
                  Nortnern        Seas    by    the    Dutch.
  These herrings are very fat and large they are delicate
                                                        ;
and pleasing to the taste, and are goodwhen salted     but as        :
they are fat and oily requires much care to preserve them,
                         it
and they are never as white as the herrings, that are salted
on our coasts.    There are but very few shotten ones found
amongst  them.   The greatest part of them have milt or eggs,
which arc only beginning to be formed.
            Of   the   Herring Fishery near Shetland.
  The Dutch usually set out for this fishery towards the
middle of June, but never begin      until the evening of St.
John's day. They do not fish                   in it
                                      the day-time, and the
manner of fishing there     nearly the same as that of the
                                  is
Yarmouth fishery. The best situation for this north fishery
isfrom the small Island of Fairhill to the north-west of the
Orkneys and round Shetland.
                 OF THE YARMOUTH                   FISHERY.
 "
   The Dutch and French carry on this fishery as well aff
the English with this difference, however, that they are
             ;
not allowed to come near the coast of England, in the                          vi
cinity of which the English fish themselves.          called    It   is
the Yarmouth fishery, because    great part
                                          a  of the herrings
                                                         that

                    Of   the  Herring Fishery.                 2&3
that are caught by the English are brought fresh to Yar
mouth, where they are cured. This fishery is generally
more profitable to the English than that of green or dry
cod ; and therefore to encourage it they have exempted it
from all sorts of duties. The fishermen take only a licence.
As the Dutch and French are not allowed to bring their
herrings to England, they salt them on board their busses.
            Description    of the Yarmouth Herrings.
   They are not as large or as oily as the pec or North sea
herrings, although they are originally the same.          But they
are firmer, their milts are larger, and the eggs better formed;
on which account they are much better for salting and keep
ing than the pecs. For this reason the English and Scotch
do not fish for herrings at a great distance from land, where
they are very fat.     In fact, the Yarmouth herrings are the
best of all for salting.
   It is easy to conceive that herrings lose their fat and oil
through the change of climate, water, and food. The dif
ferent qualities, however, of cured herrings depend very
much upon the care that is taken in salting them, as will
appear hereafter.     For instance, as it is a matter of great
importance    that  herrings should be put in salt on their
coming    out of the  water, those that the Dutch and French
take in the Yarmouth fishery have this advantage, because
such as are caught at night are salted on board in the day
time ; which is not the case when herrings are carried fresh
into port, on account of the contrary winds, or other acci
dents, that prevent the landing and delivering them as soon
as would be requisite.
   Of   the Herring Fishery on the Coasts         of Ireland and
                              Scotland.
   The herring fishery of Ireland is very like, that of Yar
mouth, and the Irish sea abounds with herrings from Au
gust to October.      In Scotland, instead of smoking their
herrings, as was formerly the custom, they make white
herrings, either because, on account of the herrings having
removed from the coast, they are obliged to salt them on
board their vessels, or because white herrings are preferred
in Italy.
              Of  the  Salting of Herrings at      Sea.
   The English engaged in the Yarmouth fishery keep very
near the toast, and therefore bring their herrings to land
soon after they are caught.      But  the fishers  of the Channel,

 824                      tff the   Fterring Fishery.
as they often go out fax from land, and are therefore aps
prehensive the fish may be spoiled before they can return to
 port, take with them some barrels of salt for the purpose of
at least corning the herrings, so as that they may keep for
some days : however^ this sort of preparation is not suffi
cient for the herrings that they take in the North and Yar-.
mouth fisheries; they must be at least casked, and even
barrelled as far as possible. The Dutch and French that gd
out on these fisheries practise this preparation, and the me
thod of doing it is generally as follows : — The Norman fish
ermen place the herrings in different compartments upon
the deck : they open their necks a little with a small knife^
and take out the gills, and at the same time draw out the sto
mach and intestine ; this is called dressing the herrings ; they
are then put into baskets, and carried behind to be poured
into large vats with a quantity of salt. In these the her
rings and salt are stirred about, after which the herrings are
put into tubs : but in this state they could not keep many
clays ; and therefore when the men cannot return soon to
port they put them into barrels, pressing them together as
close as possible. They arc often obliged to go through
these operations in too great a hurry, on account of bad
weather, or for the purpose of clearing the deck, &c. ; so
that sometimes they corn or barrel herrings that were not
dressed.   There is an order of parliament against salting or
barrelling such herrings.     But, whatever precautions mav
be taken at sea, the barrels must be emptied on land, and
the herrings made up again with greater care, as will be
explained hereafter.
       Of   the   Salt   used in the various Methods    of curing.
  In  whatever manner herrings are to be cured, salt must
be used ; but there are different sorts of salt, some of which
are not good for this purpose.
   The sorts of salt that the French use are those of Poitou,
Saintonge, Britany, and Normandy.           Every one allows         .
that of Brouage to be the best of all.   It is made in the salt
marshes of Brouage, Marans, the Isle of Be, and other
parts of Saintonge and Poitou.
   When the Brouage salt is old, and has become dry Snd
sweet, it leaves to the herrings their good taste, without
communicating any sharpness, or breaking them, or making
them tough or shrivelled. As to the salt of Britany, besides
what is used in the province, the Flemings and Picards take
some of     it,
              which they refine and make white.        This re
fined salt is thought to be more sharp and corrosive than
                                                            the

        Method   nf preparing Black Oxide of Mercury.                £23
 the gray salt of Brouage: however, for this" very reason
 some people think it is advantageous to mix some of it with
 that of Brouage, when the herrings are fat and oily.              Some
 use the salt brought back from Newfoundland.                The reader
 may see what we shall say of this salt in the Essay on Cod
 Fish. Provided it be not old salt that fell from the heap9
 of cod, it may do very well, particularly if care has been
 taken to dry it well in the sun upon sails.
    The neighbouring nations use white Spanish and Portu
 guese salt, in which the English and Dutch carry on a con
siderable trade.    The greatest part of the salt used by the
 northern nations is brought from St. Ubes in Portugal. 1
   This salt looks infinitely finer than that of Brouage, but
is of a much inferior quality j and the Dutch, who know
this well, sometimes mix Brouage salt with Spanish or Por
tuguese salt, which mixture is allowed to be preferable to
 pure Brouage salt, when the fish is fat and oily ; and it is
said that it contributes to the superiority of the Dutch salt
herrings.    This may be true : we shall see, however, in the
sequel, that the perfection of the Dutch herrings in general
is owing to the great care they take during the whole pro
cess of curing them.
    In Holland all the salt to be used in curing herrings must
be examined, before it is embarked, by juries of the respec
tive places, to show that it is of a good quality and clean.
The fishermen must get a certificate to this purpose, under
the penalty of paying a fine of twenty-five florins.
               Of  the Barrels      for Salt Herrings.
   There is an order in Holland that the barrels must be
marked with the cooper's mark, and then examined in pub
lic by juries, who reject such as are not of good wood, or
which might give a bad taste to the fish ; after which the
mark of the city is put upon them.                  There are also in
France many regulations relative to the size, condition of
barrels, &c.
                           [To   be continued.]
XXXVIII.      Improved Method           of preparing Black Oxide of
           Mercury.       By    M. Schulze, of Kiel*.
Though       several methods have been proposed for pre
paring black oxide of mercury since that substance was
       * From Scherer's
                         A 'J?rmtines  Journal dtt C'mtmt, do. 47.
   Vol. XVII. No.       G7.            P                           used

JS8             Improved Method    of preparing
used as a medicine, it must, however, be allowed that each
of these methods is attended with inconveniences, and that
the best, even when the materials are of the first quality,
does not produce that advantage which might be expected.
Without enlarging further on the processes hitherto em
ployed in the preparation of this article, I flatter myself it
will not be considered superfluous if I here make known a
very convenient method founded on true chemical princi
ples, which, besides its great simplicity, gives a rich and
pure product : advantages which must certainly recommend
it to the notice of every apothecary.
    In the description of the process I hope I shall be par
doned for being circumstantial, as minuteness is often of
great utility, and, in regard to a matter of so much simpli
city, can be attended with no hurt.
    Mix one part of pure concentrated nitric acid with four
        of distilled water in a narrow-necked retort ; and
  laving added four parts of pure mercury, place the vessel
!>arts
in warm sand of the temperature of from 120° to 140° of
Fahrenheit.      Maintain this heat till the action of the acid
on the metal has apparently ceased ; that is to sayj till no
more bubbles arise.
    When the- operation has been carried this length, the
heat of the sand must be raised to from 200° to 210° of
Fahrenheit ; and this temperature must be maintained for
three or four hours.    Then bring the fluid to a slight state
of ebullition, and, having continued it without interruption
for half an hour, pour the whole, boiling hot, into a glass
vessel containing fifty parts of distilled water, with which
 it will mix exceedingly well bv continual stirring.
    In the above operation the following circumstances are to
be remarked :
   1st. Should a commencement of crystallization manifest
itself during the digestion or boiling of the solution, a little
warm water must be immediately added, to prevent the com
plete crystallization of the matter, because the solution ac
quires a strong propensity towards it as soon as too large a
quantity of the water has been evaporated during the pro
cess.
   2d. Some metallic mercury must remain at the- end of
the operation.    Should all the mercury, however, be dis
solved, it will be necessary to add some more of the metal*
and to complete the solution as before, dircctud. •
     The diluted solution obtained m this manner is then     fil
tered, and the mercury remaining on the filter      collected
                                                    is
and put into another clean vessel.      . .
                                                          From

                     Slack Oxide of Mermryi    .              227
    From the clear fluid a black precipitate is .gradually
thrown down by means of ammonia, and more ammonia
tnust be dropped into it till no more precipitate is formed.
By these means the precipitate from the beginning to the
end of the operation will be uniformly black, and more
black oxide will thus be obtained than by the methods hi
therto employed. Should the precipitate be .of a brighter
colour towards the end of the operation, which, however,
will not be the case when the above prescription is closely
followed, the fluid must be separated from the precipitate
before the precipitation is completed,, and the remaining
fluid must then be precipitated by itself. The last precipi
tate is to be kept for a future preparation, or for any other
use.          .
    Wash    the black precipitate which has been obtained, in
a glass vessel with cold distilled water, and place it on a
paper filter, where in a few hours it will be freed from the
greater part of its moisture.       Then twist together the ex
tremities of the filter, so that none of the precipitate can
escape from it; and having wrapped it up in a few folds of
blotting-paper, subject it to a press, or place weights over
it : but this must be done with great care, lest the paper
should burst : it must, however, be well pressed at last, in
order to free it as much as possible from water.
    When this is done, take the filter from the press ; and
having freed it as speedily as possible from the wrapping
paper, spread it out carefully on some solid supporter, ex
tending the dry precipitate. in a thin stratum.      Surfer it to
dry completely in a temperature which must not exceed 70°
of Fahrenheit.      By these means you will obtain a prepara
tion which will stand every proof in regard to its purity.
    I shall conclude this account with   a few observations on
the process in general, and on some individual parts of it.
    1st. The principle on which this method is founded is
experience,     which shows that acids in general are capable
of taking up any metallic oxide, according as it is more or
less oxidated.
    2d. When mercury and nitrous acid exposed to heat
are suffered to exercise an action on each other till the dis
engagement      of air-bubbles ceases, a combination will be
obtained in which the oxide of mercury has experienced
a stronger degree of oxidation than is necessary for black
 oxide of mercury, as this solution is precipitated white
 by ammonia.        But if mercury not oxidated remains in
 contact w ith the solution during the" continuance of the ex
 posure to heat, a part of the oxvgen passes from  ' '
                                                        the dis-
                               P  2                       solved

22*                       On the Stones said to haiie
solved oxide of mercury to the metal not oxidated, which,
according to the above principle;, must be abundantly taken:
up.    This effect continues till all the oxide of mercury in
the solution is brought to the utmost degree of oxidation.
   3d. By this process, therefore, the whole of the dissolved
oxide of mercury is reduced to a uniform low degree of
oxidation, and the solution thereby rendered proper for pro
ducing, from the beginning to the end of the precipitation,
black oxide of mercury.
   4th. The reason why the boiling solution is immediately
poured into a large quantity of water                is,
                                                     because on cooling
most   salts  crystallize   from    their  solution,   and are then dif
ficult to be dissolved. But should the whole solution crys
tallize during the process              too great evaporation of the
                                        by
water,     itwould be necessary to add some nitrous acid,                              di
luted with the necessary quantity of water, to dissolve the
whole      byboiling, and then to proceed as before.
   The whole cannot be aoain dissolved                      by
                                                          water, because
during crystallization          part
                                  a     of  the   nitrate  of mercury                    is
decomposed,      and   the  separated    oxide  of  mercury      so much  is
oxidated that the remaining nitric acid                  not in
                                                            is     condi       a
tion to bring       to
                     it   clear solution.
                           a
    5th. The pressing of the precipitate contributes in              con           a
siderable degree to the speedier conclusion of the whole pro
cess, because during the operation of drying                 strong heat,
                                                                     a
in consequence of the reasons before mentioned, cannot be
employed.       When the moist as well as the drv black oxide
of mercury         exposed to
                  is                  temperature which approaches
                                       a
that of boiling water, its black colour                changed to gray,
                                                           is
and   if the temperature be still further raised            becomes en
                                                                     it
tirely white nay,;           bystill higher temperature
                                  a                              soon as  it
sumes an orange colour           which, however,
                                   :                      an evident sign
                                                                is
of increasing oxidation.          The before-mentioned degree of
heat must, therefore, not be exceeded                   the operation of
                                                           in
drying, and the precipitate must not even be washed with
hot water       if  be required to obtain this preparation in the
                     it
 proper state.
 XXXIX.           On the Stones said to have fallen from                               the
                  Atmosphere.  By J. Dulalande.
 Jl   h stones which fell near Laigle on the 26th of April
      R
1   S03 have afforded considerable occupation to philosophers.
Ai    a globe of fire which burst with   great noise had been
                                                     a
.seen,    it    appears    to     me   that   this   phenomenon                may b<?
                                                                               referred

                  fallen from  the Atmosphere.               £29
referred  to fire-balls, of which T have mentione'd ihirty-six
instances in the Connoissancc des Terns for the year 8 and
the year W.        The work of M. Izani entitled Lithologie
                                                             - lt
Atniospkerique contains many details on this subject. _
    These stones being of a species not to be found on the
earth, it has been concluded that fhev are formed in the at
mosphere ; but several chemists consider this as impossible.
M. Delaplace has examined what would be the case if they
were projected from a lunar volcano ; and N. Poisson, an
able geometrician, professor in the Polytechnic School, lias
given a learned memoir on this subject inthe Bulletin des
 Sciences*, published by the Philomatic Society; from which
it results, that if a body were projected from the moon with
a velocity of 7600 feet per second, or five or six times that
of a cannon ball, it would reach the earth in two days and
a half, and its velocity when it arrived at the surface would
be 31500 feet per second, making allowance for the resist
ance of the air.
    But as the height of the atmosphere may be considered
 as very small in comparison of the earth's scmidiameter,
•this velocity would be nearly equal to that which the same
 body would have on entering into this atmosphere ; but the
air then acting upon it by the resistance, which increases in
 a proportion much greater than the velocity, would soon
Jessen the rapidity of this motion, which would become
 sensibly uniform, like that of bodies which fall into a resist
ing fluid of considerable depth.
    M. Biot, who was at Laiglc to collect all the circum
 stances of this phenomenon,        presented to the Institute a
 very long and satisfactory report on this subject, which has
 been printed.      From the circumstances which he relates,
it appears to me difficult not to believe that these stones
 were formed at the same time as the globe of fire.          The
 number which fell was two or three thousand : they were
 exceedingly hot, scorched at the surface, and almost fria
 ble ; but they became hard on cooling.
    M. Izam has made no mention of the stones which fell
 on the 16th of June 1794, seven leagues to the south-wesf
 of Sienna in Tuscany, and respecting which there is a work
 entitled Sopra piogetta di sassi accaduta nella sera de \6.Gi-
 Vgno 1794, Dissertazione
                              del P. D. Ambrozio Soldani ui
 Siena 1794. 8vo. Fifty or sixty fell in the compass of a
 mjle : they were hot and burning at the surface, like those
                             * No. 7I.        • .
                               P  3                        which

832            Extraels fk>m     the third Volume of
       Analysis of   Hie Native Antimony      of AndreasveYg.
    Hitherto native antimony      has been found     in  three places
                         -
-pnty:           r  ¦
    1st.   In the silver   mine- of Sala and Weestmannland,
where Swab discovered it in a matrix of calcareous spar.
    i:J. In the mines of Challenges, near Allemont, in the
department of Isere. For the analysis of it we are indebted
to M. Sage.
    3d- In the mine of Catherine Neufung, at Andreasberg,
in the Harz, where it is found in considerable masses.
    It has the white colour of tin, inclining to leaden gray.
It is compact, and has a great deal of metallic splendour.
On the fracture it is foliated. The fragments exhibit a grain
sometimes tine and sometimes coarse.           It has a mean hard
ness, and is soft to the touch.        Its specific gravity is 6720.
The matrix of it is calcareous spar, quartz, kc.
    It exhibits the same phcenomena with the blowpipe as
regulus of antimony extracted from its ores.            It fuses very*
speedily into globules, and is dissipated in gray inodorous
funics, which adhere to surrounding cold bodies.               If the
metallic button be left to cool slowly, it is found to be co
vered by and surrounded with white brilliant argentine crys
tals. After total volatilization it leaves a small globule of
silver.
    A hundred parts of native antimony of Andreasberg con
tain
               Antimony        -  -       -     -    98
               Silver                                  1
               Iron        -                           0-C5
                                                     99-29
    It  is probable that the silver is combined         with it only
 accidentally.
   Analysis of the Argentiferous Antimony of Andreaslprg.
    This is one of the richest and oldest silver ores in that
 country.     It was formerly considered as arsenical silver,
 which is found there also, but much more rarely..
    M. Klaproth in his analysis employed a variety which
 has been dug up for several years past.            It is of a hard
 grain, crystallized, and foliated on the fracture.            By its
 external characters, and the considerable quantity of silver
 it contains, it approaches near to the antimoniated silver of
Altwolfach, in Furstunberg.          Its specific gravity is 9820.
                                                             Exposed

                 the Analyses   of M. Klaproth,       *        S3V
    This pre contains
           Oxide of lead     -         -     -     fi
           Sulphuric acid            -       •     24-80
           Water of crystallization          »      2
           Oxide of iron      -        -     ¦>     1
                                                   98-80
    The oxide 'of iron must be considered rather as a mecha
nical mixture of the ochrey crust with this ore, than as one
of its constituent principles.
         Analysis of   the Sulphated "Lead     of Leadkilh.
    The sulphated ore of lead of Anglesey was the only one
known till the discovery of that of Leadhills in Scotland ;
the chemical principles of which are the same ; but they
differ in their external characters, since it crystallizes in
tablets.   These crystals are colourless, in several places
transparent, and have a very brilliant splendour.
    The vein of this ore is situated at Wanloch-head, near
Leadhills.
    When exposed on charcoal to the blowpipe it exhibits
the same phenomena as that of Anglesey.
  . A hundred
                 parts of these crystals of sulphated lead of
Leadhilb contain
           Oxide of lead      •                    70-50
           Sulphuric    acid    -                  25-75
           Water of crystallization          *      2-25
                                                   98-50
         Analysis of  the  White head Ore of Leadhills.
    The preceding sulphated lead ore crystallized tablets must
not be confounded with the white lead ore of the same,
place ; though it is crystallized also in hexaedral tablets, in
which the kad is found combined with carbonic and not
with sulphuric acid.
    The specific gravity of this ore is 6480. It contains ,
           Lead          -      -        - .            77
           Oxygen          -       -      -     •        5
           Carbonic acid          -       -     -       16
           Loss and water of crystallization             2
'.   .                                                100
 *•
                               P4                          Analysis


                                           of M\ Klaproth. -
                 "
                      the Analyses                                                                    933
   Exposed on charcoal to the blowpipe it requires a pretty
strong heat to be fused ; the antimony is dissipated in f unics,
and leaves a button of pure silver.
   Twenty-five grains of this ore, treated in a cupel with
four grains of lead, gave a button of silver weighing 1                                                   nj.
grains.
  A hundred parts, treated                 by      the nitric and muriatic acids,
gave
                 Silver            -                -        -               77                       •
                 Antimony                  -            -    »
                                                                 1
                                                                             23
                                                                         ,             •        '.i       .i»
                                                                             100
Analysis     lite Red Fibrous Ore
            of                                      of
                                             Antimony                         of   Braunsdorf,
                                   in Saxony.
   The matrix of this ore        gray quartz
                                           is         generally       ;      it    is
found with ore of gray antimony, and some insulated crys
tals of white antimony.
   This ore has beautiful mordorS and crimson colour, on
which account         it a
                    has been called native mineral kermes. It
sometimes exhibits varied colours at its surface.          forms                           It
small needly or capillary crystals, sometimes single, and
sometimes united in bundles they have          silky splendour,
                                               :                     a
and are opake.
  It   is difficult to determine their specific gravity, oh
account of the air-bubbles which are collected in the tufts
of the small capillary crystals, and which           difficult to            it   is
expel. According to M. Klaproth               4000. This oreit   is
contains
            Antimony                   -             -       -               67*50
          Oxygen               -            10-80    -       -
          Sulphur         -   -             19-70    -       -
   Native kermes mineral differs then from gray 6ulphuret
cf antimony only             by
                     the greater degree of the oxidation of
the antimony.
Analysis    of       the   White   Ore         of
                                         Antimony                            of   Przilrem,               bt
                                   Bohemia.
   This ore, lately discovered,     composed of crystals
                                                    is                                                    in
parallelopiped laminae.  They are white, brilliant and radi
ated at the surface. The largest are nine lines     length and                    in
three in breadth. Strong compression        sufficient to make   is
them separate into small needles, which resemble those of
                                                    amianthus.

 334            Extract*  frwi the   tkird Volutin* of
 amianthus.      They have for matrix crystals of galena, to
 which they slightly   adhere.                                   - .
    Tbey-exhibit the same phasnomena with the blowpipe as
 •white oxide of antimony precipitated by an aqueous solu
 tion of muriate of antimony; which is also susceptible of
 crystallizing by rest, when slowly precipitated, by a small
 quantity of water.
    As this white oxide retains muriatic acid, M. Hacquet
 presumed that this acid formed a part also of the white ore
 of antimony. But the analysis of M. Klaproth proves that
 this ore is a pure oxide of antimony without muriatic acid.
    Some crystals of this oxide are found also in very small
insulated tablets in the red fibrous ore of antimony of Brauns-
 dorf, in Saxony,
            Analysis of the Olive Ore of Cornwall.
    The only ores of this arsenical copper, hitherto known,
Are found in Cornwall. M. Klaproth, having obtained from
all the varieties of this ore the same results, except a few
slight differences in the proportions, gives here only an ana
lysis of the Carrarac arsenical copper in needles.
    This ore, when exposed to the flame of the blowpipe,
detonates.     White arsenical fumes are disengaged from it ;
and it fuses into a grayish red globule, which when fused
with borax gives a button of pure copper. Arsenical cop
per contains
             Oxide of copper        -      »       30-62
             Arsenic acid    -      -      ••45
             Water of crystallization      -        350
                                                   99*18
    The foliated olive ore crystallised, m beautiful hcxae'dral
tablets, of an emerald green colour, of Tincroft, near Red
ruth, had before been considered as muriate of copper.
M. Klaproth, however, has found it to be composed, like
the preceding, of copper and arsenic acid. He had not &
sufficient quantity of it to determine exactly the proportions
6f its principles.
    It decrepitates speedily when heated on charcoal or in
a small crucible, and flies off in small scales; which must
he ascribed not only to the lameilau-d texture of its crystals,
hut also to the great quantity of the water of crystallization
it contains.
                                                         Arsenical

                   >   the  Analtjm of M. JOapnth,                    S3 J
     ¦                                                 '          '
   :     •...:.£-. : .        Arsenical /rest Ore.       >¦   <•
     This ere, which h exceedingly rate, is found aho at Car-
rarac, in the county of Cornwall. M. Klaproth had only
one ver/ small cubical crystal of it, with brilliant and po
lished facets, of a meadow green colour, in a piece of coo-,
per ore in quartz.                                        v
 ¦
     He does not indicate the proportions of its component
parts ; but he analysed a variety of this iron ore Crystallised,
in large cubes of an olivin green colour, extracted from a~-
newly opened pit, and found that h did not contain a singly
atom of copper.
              Analysis of      the Ore  of Muriate of Copper.       ,
     The combination of muriatic acid with copper, an
nounced by Berthollet and Proust, in their analyses of the
green sand of Peru or of Acatamit, proves that muriatic
acid is one of the mineralizing substances of this metal.
      M. Proust has since given an analysis of the green coppCr
 ore found at Los-Remollinos, in Chili, which is also com*
 posed     of muriate of copper.
 "
      M. Klaproth repeated this analysis on a very large quan
 tity of this fossil, which is still rare. This ore, after being
  reduced to powder, and freed by washing from the ochre
 with which its crystalline texture was penetrated, had a
 beautiful dark green colour.
      Exposed to the blowpipe on charcoal, it communicated to
 the flame a bright blue and green colour.                The muriatic
 acid is soon volatilized, and there remains on the charcoal
 a button of pure copper.
      If the ore be heated in a crucible it soon assumes a black
 colour ; but it gradually becomes greenish in the air.                  It
 loses from        six   to  seven per cent,  when moderately heated;
 pnd from fifteen to eighteen when brought to a red heat.
      Water boiled with a portion of pulverized ore, and then
 filtered, passed without any colour; and a solution of ni
 trate of silver produced only a slight "white precipitate,
 which became black in the light. This proves that the
 muriatic acid was not found in it in that proportion which
 \s necessary to be very soluble in water*
      A hundred parts of this ore contain, according to
 M. Klaproth,
                 Oxide of copper « -           -    - " 73
                 Muriatic acid         -       --           10" 1
                 Water of c^ystalhgalion            -       }6-§
                                                          100
 Ku,                                                                  And,

 236            Extracts from       the    third   Volume* of
    And, according to M. Proust,                              LJ "- l'~>T!'> '"-K
            Oxide of copper                -          .     70£*
            Muriatic acid         -       ¦-'«»"
                                                 ¦•¦
                                                    -*      l<jf*"':il"          -
            Water       .'-....-        .    -      .,       igjj
                                                          100
    These two analyses vary so little in their proportions that
they serve to confirm each other.
   Acatamit, according to Mr. Proust, contains
            Oxide of copper                -          -
                                                            70|$
            Muriatic acid         -          -        -     j m
            Wa.tejr       -                                 lsjfc
                                                          100
                                                        . —  ——
          Analysis of the     Ore   of Phosphate of        Copper,
   The natural combinations of phosphoric acid hitherto
known are those of the phosphate of lime in apatite and
jts varieties; and those of some species of phosphate of
lead, of phosphate of iron, and of blue ferruginous earth.
   To these must be joined that of copper discovered in this
new mineral, as a new species of copper ore.
    It is found at Firneberg, near Rheinbreidbach, on the-
banks of the Rhine.        Its green colour and its radiated tex*
ture made it be taken, at first, for a kind of malachite.
   When exposed to the blowpipe on charcoal it fuses into
a dark brown scoria, which at first assumes a round form j
but it soon divides and separates.               After cooling it has a
dull metallic splendour, and a reddish gray colour.
   A hundred parts of this ore are composed of
            Oxide of copper          '
                                          -         -     6.8" 13t
            Phosphoric acid       .        <¦       -     30-94
                                                           99-0&
                            PITCH      STONE.
  Analysis    of the Pitch   Stoue     of Cyarsclach,      near Meissen.
    Under this name were formerly comprehended several
species   of stones, which at present are placed more conve-
niently among the semi-opals.                This fossil is found in en
tire masses of the mountains : it exhibits several varieties
of colour. There are some yellow, green, gray, reddish
brown, and blackish.         It is compact, and in the inside has
the lustre of pitch. Its fracture is conchoid.                Its substance
is penetrated by a very finc-vtined tissue which binds it to
gether, *8 may be distinctly seen by immersing the fossil in
water.      ¦
    Its specific gravity is 1645.          M. Klaproth, in his anah/
             1                                                              sis,

                  . .   the Analyses    of M. Klaproth.            237
si*) employed the             pitch stone of Meissen, which is pellucid
and yellow, inclining to olive green.
    A   hundred parts of this fossil contain
              Sifex       -                                              73
                  Alumine      -    -                           -        14*50
                  Lime       -                                            1
                  Oxide of iron                                           1
                  Oxide of manganese                            -         0*10
                  Soda.        -                                          1-75
                  Water                    -                              8-50
                                                   ..           .. 9*8*          .
           Analysis of the Pumice                       Stone   of Lipari.
    Fixed alkalies, in consequence                          of their solubility, had
long escaped the researches of chemists in the analysis of
stones.    But as they are now known to exist in a number
of fossils, they ought always to be supposed to exist when
a sensible decrease is expenenced in their decomposition. ,j
   This induced M. Klaproth to repeat the analysis of the
pumice stone of Lipari, in which he had observed a loss of
three per cent.     These parts he found again in the soda
 and potash, which enter, as constituent parts, into the
composition of this fossil.    He obtained by nitric acid very
regular rhomboidal crystals of nitrate of soda ; and, by the
addition of tartareous acid, crystallized grains of acidulous
 tartrite of potash.                                         . j
    A hundred parts of the pumice stone of Lipari are com-,
posed    of                            ,
          Silex           -            -       -            -        -        77'50
          Alumine                  -           -            -        -        17-50
          Oxide of iron containing                      a   little
            manganese     -     -                           -        -           I" 75
          Soda and potash                      -            -        -           3
                                                                              99-75
            Analysis of the Zirconia of Norway.
    The discovery of this fossil, so valuable on account of
the elementary earth it contains, is the more interesting to
mineralogists, as this is the first time it has been found in
its matrix.  We are not yet acquainted with that of the
zirconia and hyacinth, which are stones of transportation.
The gangue from which it is extracted at Friedrichswarn
a  compound of red feld-spar and amj-hibolite, in which                                  it i«\

939          Exthteitfram            (tie   third Volume of
is found interposed in an insulated state, in light brown
pellucid crystals.                      :                  ' .:
                                                             '
   The specific gravity of this zirconia is 4485. .'».. ¦ —
   It is perfectly infusible, and does not lose its colour by
calcination. • It contains    -
             Zirconia                ••         •         -            63
             Silex         -         -                   '. •>¦        83
             Oxide    of iron                *¦      .    m             I
                                     •           •                     99
                    Analysis of Madreporite.
   Madreporite, belonging to the cla$6 of calcareous stones,
Jbund by M, de Molle some years ago at Russbachthalj in
the country of Salzbourgj is a stone of transportation. Some
specimens weigh from twenty to thirty pounds*
   Externally it resembles basaltes so much that some mi
neralogists considered         it,
                              at first, to be the same.    Others
have believed that   it was produced from madrepores. But
itexhibits no certain characters of         primitive organic for
                                                     a
mation.     Besides,  it has such      great resemblance to the
                                            a
real madreporites that       has thence borrowed its name.
                           it it
                                                                                     It
is of gray colour:
       a                        composed of divergent prisms,
                                is
brilliant on their transverse fracture, and of          black and           a
duller colour on the longitudinal fracture. The fracture ex
hibits a tissue of small bent laminae.        It entirely opake,  is
brittle, rough to    the   touch,    and  of moderate hardness.
The intervals between the bundles which compose             arc in              it
part filled with small   white   leaves  of calcareous spy.
   According to the analysis of M. Molle, hundred parti            a
of this madreporite contain
                    Lime    -                -            (53-^j
                    Alumino                  -            30&
                    Ifon   _
                                     -       -
                                                          lOfcJ
     According to   M. Klaproth,
           Carbonate of lime                                           93
           Carbonate of magnesia     -                                 0'50
           Carbonate of iron     -    -                                 1-25
           Charcoal -                                                  0"30
           Sandy silex     -     -    -                                 4" 40
           An atom of oxide of manganese
                                                                       98T3      .
                                                                                Analysis

               v. the Analyses of-M* Klapr.oth.   -        £39
                    Analysis of Pharmacolite.
   This fossil is found in the cobalt ore of Wittichen, in
Furstemberg, in small white crystals, for the most part
capillary ; sometimes collected in tufts, sometimes united
in clusters, and rarely prismatic. They have a silky lustre.
They are sometimes covered with a red crust or cobalt,
M.    Karsten has given an exact description of this new fos
sil in his mineratogical tables.
    The specific gravity of pharmacolite, in clusters, is 2640.
    A hundred parti of pure pharmacolite, separated from
the cobalt and siliceous matrix with which it is accidentally
mixed, contain
               Arsenic acid       -     -     50*54
               Lime                     *     25
               Water        -                 24-46
                                             100
 Analysis of the Sand of Muska,       near the River Aranyos ;
                called Scorza by the IValiachians.
  : Among the interesting -productions of Transylvania we
 ought not to forget a sandy fossil, of a pistachio green
 colour, inclining to tarin green, composed of small round
 grains, entirely dull. It is found in small cavities of a
 gray argillaceous stone of the valley of Muska. M. Muller,
 who sent it to M. Klaproth, adds, that this sand, in regard
 to its grain and colour, has a resemblance to several kinds
 of gold ore. That grains of gold might easily be adulterated
 by mixing it with them, it its specific gravity were not
•much lighter: it is 3135.
     It is mixed with white grains of quartz, so fine, though
 visible, that it is not possible to separate them.   This sand
 contains
               Silex                          43
                Alumine -                     21
                Lime                           14
                Oxide of iron                  16-50
                Oxide of manganese              0-25
                Loss bv calcination             250
                                               97-25
                                                       Analysis

 i 40           Extracts from      the third Volume of
      Analysis of the Fibrous Brown Sulphate of Barytes.        ,
    The fossil of Neu-Leiningen, in the Palatinate, con
founded with calamine, seemed worthy of being analysed ;
and it now appears to be a sulphate of baryles, and not an
oxide of .zinc.       Its external characters, so different from
those of the other species of the sulphate of barytes, ought
to make it be considered as a particular species.
   .The description given of it by M. Karsten is as follows :
    Fibrous sulphate of barytes is of a chestnut brown colour
on the fracture, when fresh.
    Its form holds a mean between that in rognons and thstt
in clusters. Its surface and lustre cannot be determined,
because the fossil seems to have been exposed to friction.
    Internally it is not vary brilliant. It has a greasy aspect.
    Its fracture is fibrous; and the fibres diverge like the
beards    of a quill.
    The fragments       arc irregularly angular, and the edges are
pellucid.
    It is soft and heavy: its specific gravity is 4080.
    Three hundred grains of this pure sulphate of barvtes,
the lime adhering to which had been separated by acetouif
acid, pounded, and boiled with 600 grains of the carbonate
of potash, decomposed and redissolved in muriatic acid,
crystallized in tablets of muriate of barytes.
    When redissolved in water and remixed with the first
solution of potash, which contained the sulphuric acid of
the decomposed fossil, and in which the excess of potash
had been saturated byacetous acid, the sulphate of barytes
was precipitated.        When washed and collected it weighed
297 grains.
    A solution of prussiate of potash, poured into the water
of the washing, gave a slight indication of iron.
  Analysis of the Manganese Ore of Sleseld, in         the  Harz.
    This ore, which has for matrix a white sulphate of
barytes, is distinguished from other ores of manganese by
a greater metallic splendour, and by the size of its pris
matic crystals with four planes, which are sometimes more
than two inches in length.           Tt was formerly believed that
this metallic splendour arose from a considerable quantity
of iron; but the analysis of M. Klapioth has proved that
it contains none of that metal.
                                                            A hun-

                                                                       '
                                                                                        %ii
                             ------
                        'the Analyses          of MtKlapfoih*:
   A hundred parts of his ore are composed of
   Blue oxide of manganese, at the maximum of
      oxidation it can retain in the fire, -                                  90-50
   Water                                                                        7
   Ox-vsrcn 44 cubic inches, or                  in weight         -            225
                                                                              99-73
                                                                                    -   .
   This small quantity of oxygen in excess announces that
this ore is of no value for the purpose of extracting oxygen
gas from      or for preparing oxygenated muriatic acid. ".^
                 it,
   The seven per centi of water constantly found        several            in
analyses     too large
              is         quantity ato  be interposed only hy-
groscopically in the mineral.       ought certainly to be con-
                                                It
tidered as the water of crystallization of that ore.
         Analysis                of   live   Manganese    of   Moravia.
  This ore   of    steel gray colour on the fracture when
                   is        a
fresh   :   it   metallic lustre.
                 has    a               composed of short
                                                     It   is
needles united in bundles, or diverging from      common
                         ------
                                                                       a
centre, and forming    compact mass.
                                 a
  A hundred parts of the manganese of Moravia contain
  Black oxide of manganese, at the maximum of
   . oxidation  can retain in the fire,
                        it                         89
  Water                                             o-50
  Oxygen 20^ cubic inches, or in weight     -      10-25
                                                                           99-7*
   The gray radiated ores of manganese are those, there
fore, which furnish the greatest abundance of oxygen.
       Analysis    the black earthy Ore
                        of                   Manganese.   of
   This ore of the Harz     found    the fissures of the rocks,
                                       is         in
like sort mud.     But    soon dries in the air, and
                                  it                      con                 is
verted into fine black dust.
                             -----
  A     hundred parts of   contain it
          Brown oxide of manganese                             -    68
                             -----
          Oxide of iron                                        -       6-50
          Charcoal       -                                             1
          Barytea                                                      1
          Silex     -    -     -                               -       8
            Water                                                   17-50
                                                                   102
  Vol. XVII. No.                 67.           Q                                    The

M       Extracts from   the Analyses    of M. Klaprolk.
   The excess in the sum of the        products of the analysts
arises in all probability from the oxide of manganese having
absorbed, during the calcination, a greater quantity of oxy
gen than it contained in the fossil.    Nature employs this
muddy manganese to delineate and colour those dendrites,
often so beautiful, which are found in calcareous stones,
in marly schists, and in the meagre kinds of quartz. The
water of the mountains, charged with oxide of manganese,
attracted by the veins and cracks of the stone, as by capil
lary tubes, deposits it on evaporating in all the ramifications
through which it has passed.
          Analysis of the Asphaltum of Albania.
  The asphaltum or bitumen found in thick strata near
Avlona, m Albania, is of a blackish gray colour. This
fossil is compact without transparence, of a moderate lustre
on the surface as well as on the fracture, and of a greasy
polish.     When scratched the traces are dull; its fracture
is imperfectly conchoid, and the edges and fragments are
acute.
   It is light and somewhat greasy and soft to the touch.
Its specific gravity is 1205.
   It burns with a bright and brilliant flame j and it is be
lieved -that it formerly entered into the composition of the
Greek fire.
   Asphaltum is soluble only in oils and in ether.      It dis
solves very well in rectified oil of petroleum.   Five parts of
this oil dissolved without heat one part of asphaltum in 24
hours. The saturated solution had a brown colour. When
evaporated     in a gentle heat it deposited the asphaltum,
under the form of a blackish brown brilliant varnish.      As
phaltum dissolved also very well in sulphuric ether, and the
solution had a reddish brown colour.       The ether deposited
by evaporation    the  bitumen, inspissated under the form of
a reddish brown extract. Alcohol cannot redissolve them.
   Acids and caustic alkaline solutions, even concentrated
and in a state of ebullition, cannot dissolve it properly.
   A hundred grams of asphaltum of Avlona analysed in
the dry way, distilled and calcined, are composed of
            36 cubic inches of hydrogen gas
            32 grains of bituminous oil
             6 of water faintly ammoniacal
            30 grains of charcoal
              7^ of silex
            "}\  of alumine
       • -\      of lime
                                                      li oxide

         Red coloured Water       of a Lake     in South Prussia.     S44
 •      • •¦   14- pxidc of iron                 .     ., .,
                ¦J oxide of manganese.                                     .
             Analysis of the Pearl-stone of Hungary.
     The mountains of Tekelbart in Hungary, .from which                 sol
many rare fossils are extracted, among which are the beau-'
tiful changing opals, furnish that also which Werner has
classed in the system next to Pitch-stone, under the name:
of Pearl-stone.
    That which M. Klaproth subjected to analysis' is of arlf
ash gray colour, traversed by yellow bands.                  It is found"
between Kerestur and Tokai, in alternate strata separated
by others of argillaceous porphyry.
    The specific gravity of this fossil is 2340. It swells-up.
by the blowpipe like zeolite ; but it does not fuse into a
globule.
    A piece calcined for two hours in a moderate fire lost
nothing of its form. Its colour had become reddish brown.
It had experienced 4£ per cent. loss.                                     V
     Pearl-stone was completely vitrified in a porcelain fur
                                ...
nace in a clay crucible, as well as in a crucible lined witk
charcoal.
     A hundred parts of the pearl-stone of Hungary, treated
successively by soda and by acids, gave in their analysis :
                Silex                                75-25
                Alumine         -      -      -      12
                Oxide     of iron      -      -        1*60
                Lime            -      -      -        0'50
                Potash          -      -      -        4-50
                Water           -                      4-50
                                                     98-35
                             [To  be continued.]
XLI.     Examination of the Red coloured Water of a Lake near
   Lubotin, in South Prussia.            By Professor Klapkoth *.
The
 -*-
          South Prussian gazette of the 8th of February 1800,
and the     Berlin gazette of the 1 3th, gave an account of a
                                                          pheenomenon
   • From Scherer's
                       Allgemeine: Journal dtr Cbemic, No. 33.— About
twenty years ago Mr. Achard examined water tinged in a s mila; manner,
which he obtained from a lake near Strautzberg. In the month of Decem-
b*r» '7 37, the ice of this Uke was coloured red, and continued to till the
                                     Q_»                            month

in               Eramination of the Red     coloured   Water
                  observed in the water of a lake near the vil-
  age  of  Lubotin,
 !>h«nomenon           in the department of Poren in South
 Prussia.    The roost remarkable particulars of which were
 as follows :
    The water of this lake had appeared for some time to be
 covered with red spots, like drops of blood : in other places
 of considerable extent it was of a violet red colour; in
 others of a grass green colour, and large masses of a red
 matter floated on the surface of it. When the lake in
 consequence of the severe cold became frozen, the ice for
three lines in thickness was of the same red, blue, and
 green colour which the water had exhibited.          The lower
part of the ice, however, was uncoloured : a green and red
matter inclining to blue was found below the ice to the
thickness of a quarter of a yard.
    A manuscript account of the same phenomenon gives
the following account >— About the middle of December
the fishermen, on breaking up the ice in order to fish, ob
 served that not only the ice but also the water of the lake
was coloured red, blue, and green, in two places. The
lake is about a quarter of a mile in length, four hundred
paces in breadth, and is completely surrounded by moun
tains.
    A wood stands close to the margin of the lake on one
side, and on the other lies the village of Lubotin with its
Mrrounding district : an arm of the lake, about a hundred
feet in length and a few paces in breadth, extends to the
village.    In this arm, and for a certain extent on both
banks of the lake, the water was coloured to half an ell in
depth ; but under this coloured stratum the water was in its
usual state.     The case was the same in a part at the *x-
tremity   of the  lake, about fifty feet in length and twelve or
thirteen feet in breadth. The water in the remaining part
of the lake was colourless. The ice which covered these
places was marbled with green, blue, and red spots, of
from one to two feet in length.       The lower part of the ice,
like the water below        it,
                            had no unusual colour.
   Both these accounts coincide in regard to the principal
points of the phenomenon} the small deviations arise no
month of March, when       it
                            appeared  to be gceen.  In the latter state the
water could be used for painting.    The red water, after  ithad stood for
tonic time, deposited  ared insipid matter, which, when viewed      by  the
microscope, seemed to be composed of threads interwoven with each
Other. Mr. Achard concluded, from the few experiments he made with
it, that the colouring matter was a   vegetable substance. ~Soc Ins Coy
mittb Ptyihrhe $(biiftr>si Berlin i?8o,   p. 151— *5>.'
    ..;...
                                                          .
             -
I                3                    ^                            doubt

           of a"Lake    near iM&it'm, In South-Prussia.            $4$
doubt from the observations having been mad* a* different
times.    ...                                          . . J
   It may readily be believed that superstitjoB, a« tisu^l, conf
                                                                  _
                                                                      *
verted this natural phamomenon into a wonderful prodigy3
which was considered as ,the consequence; ef a shower of
blood, and* the forerunner of various misfortunes. .. . ¦
   To the" enlightened philosopher, however, such phsenor
mena are of importance, as they afford him. means of ex-?
plaining, on true principles, what few men of science have
made an object of their research.                              . cri
   It needs, therefore, excite no wonder that-different, opi*
nions have been entertained in regard to the .nature, and.
cause of this phenomenon.             Some ascribed it to mineral
substances,    and thence deduced proofs of the existence of
veins of ore concealed in the neighbourhood.             Others con»
ceived that it had some connection with the earthquake
which had a little before been experienced in several part*
of Silesia and Bohemia. But, by the help of chemistry>
this phenomenon has been found susceptible of another
explanation much simpler.
   Various authors, both antient and modern, speak of
water being coloured and altered in its appearance.               We
are told by Pliny* that the water of the lakes near Babylon
had a red colour for eleven days in summer, and that the
Borysthenes, now called the Dnieper, was in summer of a
blue colour.                             f
                  In J66S Mr. Smith found the water of the
Mediterranean to be of a sky blue colour, and when the
sun shone upon it this colour was changed to red or purple.
The missionary Ferdinand Consag J, in the year 1746, ob
served in the open sea, near California, that the water for
the extent of half a mile was of a bluish red colour. Navi
gators have often seen the water at the mouth of the river
Plata, on the coast of South America, of a blood red
colour. Schooten found the water at Cape Desire coloured
red, in consequence of a sea unicorn (Mvnodun Alonoceros)
having lost its horn.
   Water is sometimes coloured red, not in reality, but ap
parently by aquatic insects, which at certain seasons cover
the surface of ditches and ponds.                                     ¦
   The present case, however, is different. The coloured
water of the lake near Lubotin, a considerable quantity of
which was sent to Berlin for chemical examination, excited
great attention when first seen, by its agreeable change-
     * Hist. Nat. lib. xxxi. cap.
                                  30.        t A ti F.rudit.
              J  Hut. dc California, mm. iii. Pain 1767.       ¦ .
                                                                     -
                                   Q 3                       ableacsi

46         Examination of the Red        coloured   Water
ableness   of colour. When viewed in a vessel of white glass
and turned from the light, it appeared of a dark red colour,
inclining to crimson, which rendered it entirely opake; but
the froth with which it became covered on being strongly
shaken was of a bright blue colour.            When the glass was
turned towards the light the redness vanished, and the
water appeared of a sky blue colour. This change of colour
took place for several days when the water was preserved
in a close vessel.
     The results of the different researches made in regard to
 this phenomenon were as follows : '
     1st. White paper which had been immersed in this water
 appeared, after being dried, of a blue colour.            The colour
 suffered no perceptible change either from diluted acids or
 from alkaline salts.
     2d. When poured into a porcelain saucer the water ap
 peared red in the middle and blue at the edges.                 When
  placed  on   warm    sand  indigo-blue rings      were  deposited on
 the sides of the vessel during the evaporation : the last por
  tion, however, was dried into .a dirty blueish green mass.
 When put into water it was not redissolved, but merely
 divided into blackish scales.         The water was again eva
  porated  and  digested,  but  the flakes  still remained insoluble.
     3d. Another part of the water was put into a glass vessel
  closed only slightly and deposited in a warm place.              The
  water soon lost its colour, assumed a caseous appearance,
  and deposited tender blueish green flakes, which were col
  lected and dried.      When put on ardent coals, or held to
 the flame on the point of a knife, they puffed up and burned,
  emitting the smell of burnt animal substances.
     4th. When mixed with alcohol the mixture gradually
  became turbid, and slimy blueish flakes were separated.
     3th. By the additiou of sulphuric acid the water, as soon
  as the first drop of acid fell into    it,lost the property of be
  coming red even when turned from the light, and ap
  peared when held
                       in every direction of   a   bright blue colour.
   When exposed to heat, the water at first appeared of light  a
  green colour;   it   then became completely coloured, and
  tender wooljy thready flakes of blue colour were deposited.
                                     a
.    6th. When decomposed with sulphuric acid the colour
  of the wa cr first became of      a   bright grass green colour,
  then of lemon, and at last of straw colour.
           a                         a                      The tender
¦woolly flakes were of      a dirty gravish green colour.
     7th. When the water was decomposed witti pure nitric
  acidit  appeared throughout of        a  sky blue colour.      When
i exposed to heat all tlie colour disappeared,           the water not
                                                                   only

               of a Luke    near Luhotin,   in South Prussia,            247
•nly     became perfectly clear and colourless,         but the caseoufr
flakes     which     were separated    appeared    of   a pale whitish
yellow.
    8th. Oxygenated muriatic acid destroyed the colour com
pletely in the course of a few seconds. Th;.* water remained
for some time lu.bid and whitish : when exposed to heat it
suffered yellowish flakes to be deposited.
   nth. By caustic alkali the colour of the water imme*
diately became brownish. A few gray flakes were deposited;
the greater part of which, however, were afterwards dis
solved. When the clear solution was neutralized by mu
riatic acid, the part dissolved in the alkali was again sepa
rated in soft yellowish gray flakes.
   These results are sufficient to enable chemists to deter
mine with certainty the nature of the matter contained in.
this water. It consists of those component parts com
monly comprehended under the name of the albuminous
principle, and which in the present case served as the basis
of a peculiar colouring matter of the nature of indigo. This
vegetable albumen which is contained in a great many
plants, and to which belong those component parts of ve
getables known under the names of gluten, materia vegeto-
animalis, &c.,        is,
                      in regard to its component parts and
chemical properties, of an animal nature, and has            neara
affinity to animal albumen, the caseous parts of milk, and
the curdled part of serum.     If those plants which among
their intimate component parts contain this albuminous
matter are abundant at the same time in colouring matter,
the latter     commonly in close union with the former. We
               is
have an example of this in indigo, the basis of which            of  is
the same nature as albumen.
   The dispersion in water of this colouring matter, com
bined with albumen, can take place only at periods when
the plants, to the component parts of which              belongs,
                                                            it
are in    state of solution and decomposition
           a                                             by
                                                      desiccation
or putrefaction.     The phenomenon, therefore, cannot be
observed       in
               summer, when the plants are alive and in                   a
state of vegetation, but only in winter, when they are
dead.    By the successive decomposition of the dead plants
under the water, the extractive matter, and such of its com
ponent parts as are susceptible of complete solution          that
fluid, pass into it. The albumen        at first received
                                            is                   by in
                                                               the
water, but      does not enter into
                it                    constant, but only ap
                                            a
parent and mechanical, solution        the particles exercise
                                            ;                             a
mutual attraction, approach each other, and in that state
form     aflaky accumulation which floats on the water till
.    . ¦
                                   £  4                      they

348        Examination of the Red    coloured Water
they at length are, .converted into a sort of slime. The
Colouring matte; combined with the albumen undergoes
also essential changes, till, being gradually overloaded with
oxygen, U^is entirely decomposed. When left to itself in
stagnant water this disappearance of the colouring matter!
takes place only very slowly.     The coloration of the water
hy it npay therefore, especially in winter, continue several
weeks- On the other hand, when a speedier saturation
with o^ygen.is effected the colour is immediately decom-
posed, as is tlje case when the coloured water is decom
posed bv iiitrous acid or oxygenated muriatic acid.
   Nothing further, therefore, seems necessary to explain
this phtenomenon than a botanical determination of those
plants which after their death transmit these component
parts .to water. This task, however, I must leave to
botanists who may have an opportunity of making such
researches on the spot.      But 1 must here observe, that a
season of the year in which one can hope to find these
plants in their living state ought to be chosen for this
purpose.
   From various grounds, however, it appears to me pro
bable that these plants belong to the order of the crypto-
gamia aquatic plants, and are perhaps of the species of the
Conferva tremtlla, Ulva, &c. Albumen seems to form a
principal component part in these plants, because on their
decomposition in the dry way, besides the usual products,
they give also ammonia.      It might therefore be or import
ance to examine whether this colouring matter, which ma
nifests itself by the natural decomposition of the plant,
could be extracted from it immediately by artificial means.
I am inclined to think that this matter will be found in the
 Ulva prkpiformis, iinn., because this singular plant, at
the end of its vegetable life, is converted into a gclatinou*
Mibstar.ee, arid in that state, before its total solution, floats
for some time on the surface of the water. The phseno-
mena I observed in my experiments on this coloured water"
exhibited a chemical analogy to those of the colouring
matter obtained from the indigo plant, lud'gofera tinrto-
ria; bid. araenlia; Ind. disperma; and from woad, Isali*
tinetoria.   For though the water appeared of a dark red
crimson colour, this colour was merely an optical illusion, ¦
occasioned by the refraction of the rays of light.      The real
colour was a pure blue. This property of indigo matter to'
assume an apparent red colour I have observed in thu
aolid colouring matter itself, as the best sort of the West
Indian indigo, as well as that extracted from woad, ex-
  u •-- .                                                  hibits

             of a Lake near Lubotin, in South Prussia.               Sf4§
bibits on its smooth surface, when exposed to the light, a
cupreous colour.   The phenomenon also observed in re«
gard to indigo, that when strewed over coals the smoke
which rises immediately from              it,
                                   when viewed against the
light, has    beautiful light red colour, may be connected
                 a
with the same causes.
  This phenomenon         not so uncommon as seems generally
                               is
to be believed.       A few       had an opportunity of making
                              years ago  I
similar experiments on water found in        lake at Strautzbcrg,
                                                      a
not far from Berlin. The same circumstances were observed
here, and        the same season, namely, the winter.
                 in                                             The
water of the lake was in some places coloured red, blue, and
green  ;  and masses of the same colours floated about in the
parts of the water which were colourless.          In flasks which
were filled with the water and transmitted to me, the co
loured part of the water gradually separated itself and as
cended, while the water at the bottom remained colourless.
The phenomena which took place in the course of my ex
periments were exactly similar to those which occurred in
my researches respecting that of the lake near Lubotin. In
January 1799 Mr. Achard had an opportunity to subject
the water of this lake, supposed to be converted into blood,
to some experiments also, from which he concluded that
the colouring matter consisted of some vegetable substance,
and floated       the water but was not properly dissolved in
                 in
it. The small quantity which he had obtained of this water
did not permit him to make any further experiments of                        a
more decisive nature.
   A similar phenomenon had been before observed several
times in the lake near Strautzberg.         According to an ac
count published        Mr. Campe, clergyman at Alt-Lands-
                         by                    a
berg, in the Physicalischen Belustitpnigen*, he saw in the
year   1737 the water of that arm or Lhe lake which proceeds
towards the town entirely of         red colour.
                                          a          Fifteen years
after, the lake in the same place appeared to be wholly
green.     In the course of two days the water had resumed
its usual colour.     The water put into flasks, which at first
was somewhat red, gradually became putrid              soon after
                                                             ;           it
was thick and muddy and at the end of some w eeks there
was separated from             a ;
                           dark red mass which floated on the
                              it
surface.     In the present case      appeared of two colours
                                          it                                 :
 when turned from the light, opake and dark red; when
 turned towards the light, dark green.          This green colour
 observed        by
                 Campe             is,
                            however, not essentially different
                                                           ;iuj bi.vi
It    ...           »        -t
                               •
                                  ,-.:>.ji »j .*¦ a 5,i.nj
 -x<   ,l<   ,    ¦¦'
                     1
                          \t* Pari xt. Berlin      tf I*"-
                                                   J         1   ¦   -   •   -J

430           Explanation of        the Inscription on a     Brick
from the blue colour of the water which I examined : it
only shows that the proportion of the oxygen combined
¦with the colouring matter was less. For when that quantity
of oxygen, which converted the original green colour of the
water of the lake of Lubotin into blue, was extracted by
means of bodies which had a greater affinity for oxygen,
the green colour returned ; as was the case when the water
was decomposed with sulphuric acid, or with a solution of
tin in muriatic acid. . .
    A similar return of blue to green is observed in indigo
when employed in the art of dyeing.                     To prepare it tor
that purpose it must be decomposed with such substances
as deprive it of a part of its oxygen.               The prepared indigo
liquor appears          then   green,    and   the cloth   dipped in it is
taken out green.             But while the cloth is spread out in the
air the pigment has an opportunity of acquiring that oxy
gen which it lost in the bath, by which means the blue co
lour is produced and fixed.
    This coincidence in regard to the phaenomena observed
in the water of the lake of Lubotin with those of indigo,
affords a further proof that the colouring matter of that
water was of a nature analogous to indigo.
XLTI. Explanation of              l/ie Inscription on a Brick from the
    Site    of   anlient Babylon,          By the Rev. Samuel Hen
    ley, M.A. F.A.S*
 KJs      the face    of Dr. Hulme's brick, over two             rude figures
 of  a   large dog, Larking,          and the head    of  a wuter-bird, is
 the following inscription          :
 which,      expressed in Hebrew characters, distinctly exhibits
 the words }« na», and literally signifies, A BRICK BAKED
 BY THE SUN.
    That •! ^" £, fttl>. in its primary sense, placenta cocta
 (Simonis Lexicon, by Eichhorn) is a baked brick, it is pre
 sumed no one will question ; any more than that $4- ?**>
 signifies the sun ; when the ground for so rendering it is
 given.
    That     |M  was the name       of  an antient city in Egypt,       styled
    * From     Archttologia,  or Miscellaneous   Tracts relating  to Antiquity,
.by the Society    of Antiquaries,— ju« published.
  ....'.                                                                     in

                        from   the Site     of antient Babylon.                         25V
in Greek 'H\wvoXis, the version of                            the   LXX       will prove   r
ilN,       ij"   sriv 'HXisiroAif.
                         (Exod.    2.)          i.            This city      was built on
   considerable hill    honour of the sun, (Strabo, lib. xvii^
                                 in
p. a 15S,) who had there also
       1                          celebrated temple. Remains
                                                a
of these are still extant on their original site, now named
Matarea, two hours N.N.E. of Cairo, consisting, as Shaw,
Niebuhr, and later travellers relate, of       sphinx, obelisk,     a
and fragments of marble, granite, &c.           This temple                               is
mentioned, not only                    by
                             Strabo, but Herodotus, who also
records, that an annual assembly was holden in           honour
                                                                             it
                                                                             in
of the presiding divinity (lib. li. 59). Of the city and §
its sacred monuments, the destruction           the king of Ba      by
bylon, Nebuchadnezzar, Jeremiah expressly foretold, (xliii.
8 — 13) — He shall break also the images
                 :                                Beth-shemesh,         of
 (or, the temple      the Sun) that
                               of         in the land    Egypt.
                                                           is                    of
Now, that Heliopolis received its original name from the
Sun      indisputable, inasmuch as that, in antient Egypt,
            is
 he was denominated ON.         This    evident from Jablonski
                                                         is
 (Panth. Egypt.      137), Georgi (Alphabet. Tibetan, p. 87),
                            I.
 and expressly from Cyril (in Hoseam, p. 145) who, on
 reciting the Egyptian fable which makes Apis the son of
 the Moon and offspring of the Sun, adds, " that the Sun
 was called ON        the Egyptians ;"— ftN.Je in xar' auras
                               by
 'O'HAIOS,     perfect analogy with the Coptic oeilt, which,
                       in
 in    the language           of Upper Egypt, signified                 LIGHT,        and the
 Arabic              {j^t*- ^yj^..the           eye or     fountain          ligfit.
                                                                            of
    In perfect accordance with the inscription are the hiero-
 glyphical figures on the brick.       That Sirius, the chief of
 the stars, was symbolized             Dog,     by
                                                thousand monu
                                                     a              a
 ments will evince, independently of the name Ao-lpoxvun, or
 Dog-star, which to this day he retains. The origin and
 application of this symbol are in themselves sufficiently
 plain.   The vigilance of dog wa3 significantly expressive
                                            a
 of the star, which,                  by
                           its heliacal appearance, gave certain
 notice that the sun had arrived at its greatest elevation.
 Hence the Latratok Anubis in Egypt, which, according
 to the rabbins, was the same with Nibchaz, the barking
 watch-dog of the Avites.         In Kings, xvii. 24, we read
                                                      2
 that " the king of Assyria brought from Babylon, Cutha,
 Ava, and other cities, colonies to repeople the emptv cities
 of Samaria, whose inhabitants this conqueror had carried
 away captive."     In verse 31          added that, as ihese na
                                                 it   is
 tions, in their new settlements,       set up their gods, so the?
 gods of the Avites were Nibchaz and Tartak.          The precise
 form of the latter    hitherto unascertained but commcnta
                                 is                                     ;
                                                                                         tori

f 52          Explanation of the Inscription            on a     Brick
tors explain it to have denoted,  the stated revolution of the
Sun ; which perfectly agrees with the import of Nibckax,
literally signifying the barking watch-dog.     (tnas from nin
to watch, and mj to bark as a dog. Kimchi.) Thus, Abar-
banel : mun ronu> abn «in» iruJ iaw tyiyro, and the
Avites made Nibchaz, by which is intimated the Docj
that loudly EARjts. Accordingly, about three hours
from Berytus, towards Tripoli, the country these Avites
occupied, is a high mountain, upon which was erected, on
a column, a vast dog, which uniformly barked at the sea
son. Though this monument be now overthrown, its re-»
mains are still visible in the neighbouring sea; whilst a
river, that empties itself in            it,
                                   still keeps the name of the
river    of   the Dog, i     *   l^saJ  I      -gj
                                                 ,   3^3 1H3.    This river the
 Greeks and Latins styled Lycus, from the resemblance, as
is  conjectured, to those that sailed by, which the dog on
 the column might have born to                wolf (Eichhorn's Si-
                                                 a
monis, p. 965)     ; but rather, as       probable, from both hav
                                            is
ing congruity in their hieroglyphic application
     a                                                      the wolf
                                                                   ;
being sacred to the sun, as an animal of the dawn.            Hence
the wolf in the temple of Apollo at Delphi, and the epithet
 Lycian, ascribed to the same god             not to omit that the
                                                 ;
term ATKABA2 for           a year, properly expresses an anniver
sary procession     oflight.
    Nor, so far as Egyptian hieroglyphics will go,         there any
                                                                   is
 discrepancy   in respect    to the  Biro.    The  rise of  the dog-
star,   or barking   of  Anubis,     statedly proclaimed   the over
flow of the Nile    ;
                    a    constant concomitant of which was the
 Ibis. This bird, as such,            frequently seen on Egyptian
                                       is
coins and, to express its relation to the Nile, with two
        ;
 lotus leaves on its head; which were the established cha
 racteristics on the head of that river when personified at the
 time of exundation      : on the Nilometer also the same leaves
 appear floating upon the high-water line.           Now, as to the
 like overflow with the Nile the Euphrates             annually sub
                                                            is
ject,   it   more
             is     than    probable    that Babylonia   might have
 owed its deliverance from noxious reptiles to the same, or
 some similar bird.       If so, the divine honours vouchsafed
 to the Ibis in Egypt for its anniversary good offices would
 afford at Babylon     asufficient reason for introducing the bird
 at this season, along with the barking dog, discriminative
 of it.
    The inscription itself         in two view3 pertinent. This
                                  is
 brick   isunquestionably sun-buked, and therefore exhibited
 an effect of the intense power of the great
                                                      " Ay«£ wipes           ¦,"
                                                                 but

                 from    the Site  of antient Babylon.                   253
but it had, perhaps, still greater pertinence, as, in that part
of the structure which bricks with this impress were de
signed to occupy, each one might serve to commence a
new scries in the annual order of astronomical records,
which the entire pillar, or obelisk, might be destined to
preserve.      In Egypt, we know, one name of the dog-star
was SETH, ana that the most antient and wise of the
Egyptian astronomers dated the commencement of their
year from his heliacal rise (Jablonski, II. 51). How far
this name extended, it is not easy to define : but Josephus
mentions a tradition of the existence of two brick pillars of
$>eth, one of them sun-baked, which contained astronomical
records antecedent to the flood.              The true history of this
might     be,  that  on   them  were    inscribed  a relative register of
solar,' lunar, and sideral revolutions, adjusted to the series
origin of the world from the first rise of the dog star, and
a notion not unlike it occurs in the sublime poem of Job,
who bordered on the confines of Chaldea, (chap, xxxviii.)
          Where wert thou when    I laid the foundations of the earth ?
          Whereupon were the sockets thereof set ?
          Or who laid the comer stone of the same ?
          When the morning stars san;; together,
          And all the ions of God shouted for joy.
   Though it were to a far less remote period that the astro
nomical observations extended, which were recorded on
bricks at Babylon, and thence transmitted by Callisthenes
to Aristotle, they, however, .fix the first foundation of that
city to the time of jNimrod, and most accurately agree with
its history by Moses.
    But here a consideration arises of no little importance.
The inscriptions on the two sides of this brick essentially
differ, the one being of alpliabetic characters, the other
monogrammic.            Alphabetic characters of the same form
may be seen, in frequent recurrence, upon both Egyptian
ana Phoenician remains ; yet, as far as I can discover, are
visible on no other of these bricks ; whilst the monogram
mic occur on them all.          Dr. Haoer, who hath written on
the Babylonian inscriptions with much erudition and acute-
cess, passe* this topic unnoticed.              By comparing, never
theless, the bricks engraved in his work *, it will be seen,
from the order in which particular characters recur, that
sufficient scope is left to suppose the inscriptions of which
   • For   an account  of Dr. Hagcr's work, ?'e P.;i!osrphica!   Magazine,
                                                                        '
¦vol. xi.                                                                 * '*
                                                                        they

  $54      Eleventh Communication from          Dr. Thornton.
 they consist are rather notations than narratives. Nor
 do f apprehend any evidence from the ruins of Persepolis,
 or the Persepolitan monument, I send herewith*, will mi
 litate in the least against this conjecture.           The figures Dr.
 IIager has given from the cylinders, appear to indicate
 festivals corresponding with the astronomical notices that
 accompany them ; ana the goat of the second may have a
 relative import with thai in this present from M. Millin.
   XLIII.    Eleventh Communication from            Dr. Thornton.
                           To  Mr. Tilloch.
                                No. i, Hinde-street, Manchester-square,
      SIR,                                December 10, 1803.
 Xn   the last letter that I had the honour of addressing to the
 philosophic world, through the medium of your excellent
 Magazine, I mentioned among my observations the con
 sideration of the balance of principles as affecting health,
 and even the very existence of the animal ceconomy. The
 following cases will further tend to illustrate this opinion :
                       Case of Mrs. Chapman.
     Mrs. Chapman, aet. 65, a nurse employed in the first
 families, being upon a visit to the housekeeper, upon her
 coming to town, at the dowager lady Williams Wynne, was
 ordered by me thirty drops of laudanum, and an aperient
 draught in the morning, to prevent the constipating effects
 of laudanum. She took the same, and passed a very com
fortable night.       In the morning the maid servant came to
give    her  the  morning    draught ; but, by mistake, took up
the bottle containing the laudanum, which she poured out,
and the whole was drunk down, amounting to near two
ounces. Some little time elapsed before the mistake was
discovered, and I was immediately sent for.                I ordered an
emetic, and lemonade to be drunk plentifully, and the pa
tient to be got up, and to be continually roused to take the
acid drink. By this means there was only a sensation of
         drowsiness produced by the opium, and the patient
   eing at length allowed to sleep, this went off, and she was
freat
as well as ever in the evening.
    * An engraving forwarded to Mr. Henley by M. Millin, siipcrin-
tendant of the National Museum at Paris.        It exhibits the face of the
celebrated Persepolitan monument brought lately to France by M. Mi-
chayjc
                                                                      Case

         Eleventh Communication from      Dr. Thornton.     s^5
                     Case of Mrs.         >—>-.
   When called to this lady, I found her stupified on the
bed, with an unconquerable disposition to i'all asleep in
whatever position placed.       She was six months gone with
child ; and from some disagreement with her husband, who
had left her, she conceived the wretched project of ridding
herself of an existence now become insupportable without
that relief which religion affords, and which ever deters from
suicide in the hour of affliction.      As prior help had been
called in, and the emetic sent had operated, I ordered upon
my arrival vinegar mixed with water to be drank, which
awakened our torpid patient, and being repeated at intervals,
until the lemonade was substituted, took off the sedative
powers of laudanum ; and in the evening our patient was
free from all danger.
          Observations  on these Cases ly Dr.   Thornton.
    1 . Laudanum and wine have been happily compared by
modern physicians as to their effects on the animal ceco-
nomy.
    2. As wine by distillation is made into brandy, and
brandy, by another process, into ether, so do we explain
the concentrated powers of laudanum dependent upon a few
drops.
    3. As there is first ill-directed action, then total loss of
muscular power, and sleep, the kind provision of nature to
recruit the irritable principle, taken away by the disoxygen-
ating effect of too much wine or laudanum received into
the stomach, the philosophic practice indicated is to add as
a balance to the hydrogen the oxygenous principle.
    4. That this last principle is greedily absorbed by the
 Stomach under these conditions appears from the acid
drinks neing at first brought up free of the acid taste, and
removing quickly the intoxication.
    5. In the case of sir George Braithwaite Boughton, bart.
 {Vide my Philosophy of Medicine, vol. iv. p. 128), where,
in addition to the lemonade, the inhalation of a superoxy-
genated air was employed, the cure was remarkably rapid.
    6. In the West Indies, when the negro has put out the
quantity of rum, he says to his master,
                                               " Masse, do you
 drinky for drunky, or drinky for dry ;" and proportions the
 quantity of lime-juice accordingly, employing no difference
 as to the spirits or water.
    7. The disagreeable effects of laudanum on the head, as
 with intoxication, the next day, is removed by the inhalation
                                                              of

    t $6       Contribution towards the assaying           of Coins.
    of vital air. {Vide my Philosophy of Medicine, case xxxiv.
    vol. i. p. 407.) This observation is worthy of regard to
    such as arc obliged to have recourse to this remedy, as a
    solace during night, labouring under irremediable disease.
       8. The sudden death produced by drinking of lemonade,
    when hot by dancing, shows that the oxygen is hastily ab
    sorbed ; and no such effect being produced, if a little spirit
   be added, is a further proof how these principles (viz. hy
   drogen and oxygen) balance each other.
       o. The practice of taking persons out who are swoon
   ing, or in a state of intoxication, into the open air for
   their recovery, depends upon the supply of oxygen to the
   System, then deficient.
      Sir, I have been more anxious to record such cases, as
   the accidents by opium are much more frequent than from
   any other means. In the one case above recorded, the lady
  went to different shops and got a small supply from each,
  and then drank off the aggregate.                 Other poisons are not
  easily procured.        1  shall  conclude    in  the memorable Words
  of sir George Brathwaite Bough ton * : —             "If it can be of any
  use in a science which has for its object the ease and happi
  ness of mankind,        I shall always look back with pleasure ttt
  these accidents which have afforded me an opportunity of
 giving you this detail."
                                I am, sir, your obedient servant,
                                           Robert John Thornton.
      [My next communication, will             be the case   of a physician
 cured by the inhalation          of vital air,   every other means hav
 ing previously failed.]
 XLI V. A       Contribution towards the assaying           of Coins.   By
                          Professor
                                        Klaproth.
JLn this essay      I  shall first give an account of the process I
employed      :   I  shall  then exhibit the component parts of the
coins I examined, and conclude with some observations de
duced from my experiments.
     I found by some previous experiments that on the earlier
Greek coins, besides copper, the principal component part,
I had to direct my attention to tin and lead as essential ad
ditions, and to iron and silver as accidental mixtures; and
in the Roman coins to a considerable quantity of zinc. In
          * In  a letter written  to and published  by Dr. Bcddocs.
                                                                      con-

           Contribution towards the assaying  of Coins'.      25?
 consequence of these observations I made my docimastic
 researches in the following manner :
    1st. After freeing the com from its rust, die cervgo nobilis,
 I poured over it in a phial moderately strong nitric acid, and
left it to spontaneous solution.     Next day I poured the so
lution from the remaining part of the coin, and, having
supplied its place by a new quantity of acid, repeated the
same process till the coin was completely dissolved.
    If it contained tin, which was the case with all the Greek
coins, but only with some of the Roman, it remained be
hind in the form of a grayish white calx, and was collected
on filtering paper.     In regard to Roman coins which con
tained no tin, its absence was indicated by the perfect clear
ness of the nitric solution. A counter-experiment, in which
I employed a mixture of copper with a quantity of tin ex
actly weighed, showed that 100 parts of the above calx of
tin might be estimated as equal to 71^- parts of metallic tin.
In order that I might convert the calx of tin separated from
the coin into a metallic form, I boiled it with a quantity of
muriatic acid sufficient for its solution, diluted the solution
with two parts of water, and immersed in h a rod of zinc,
by which means the metallic tin was precipitated.
   But when the solution of copper containing tin was de
composed by nitric acid, the calx of tin was by these means
combined with a greater proportion of oxvgen, and thereby
rendered unsusceptible of solution in muriatic acid. In ihtf
case I found the dry way more convenient, and effected the
revivification of the metal in a well-closed charcoal crucible
over a strong fire maintained by a pair of bellows.       Of the
gold supposed to be contained in the earlier antient coins,
and which must have been found as a residuum in the nitric
solution, I could discover no traces.
    2d. I first examined the nitric solution which contained
no tin, to find whether it contained silver.     I mixed a por
tion of it with a saturated solution of muriate of soda, and
put into another a plate of copper which I had weighed : I,
however, found no certain traces of that metal, except in a
coin of the Mamertines.
    3d. To effect a separation of the lead, I decomposed the
nitric solution with a saturated solution |of sulphate of soda,
collected the sulphate of lead separated from the mixture,
reduced to a small quantity by evaporation, and either re
duced it in a crucible with charred tartar, ov calculated the
quantity by counter-experiments.         According to which,
 100 parts of sulphate of lead might be estimated as equal
to 7o parts of metallic lead.
    Vol. XVII. No.     67.        R                    I effected

4>58      Contribution towards the assaying  of Coins.
   I effected the separation of the lead in another manner";
I distilled the nitric solution in a retort till it was almost
reduced to a dry mass, softened the mass again with diluted
sulphuric acid, by which means the sulphate of lead was
collected as a ponderous powder ; after which I reduced it
to metallic lead.
   4th. The last method afforded me at the same time the
means of detecting the small quantity of iron contained in
some of these coins, as this metal, when the thickened mass
was softened by diluted sulphuric acid, remained behind, as
an insoluble calx of iron, along with the sulphate of lead,
which appeared coloured bv the iron of a yellow ochre co*
lour. By digestion in muriatic acid, the sulphate of lead
was freed from this calx of iron, and the latter was preci
pitated from the solution by prussiate of potash or by caustic
ammonia.
   5th. Nothing now remained in regard to the Greek coins
but the separation of the copper, which I effected with most
convenience by precipitating with polished plates of iron.
The difficulty which attends the process of precipitating
copper in a metallic form from a nitric solution by means
of iron or zinc, as a part of oxidated metal is thrown clown
at the same time, did not occur in this case, as in the pre
sent solution of copper the nitric acid was combined with
muriatic and sulphuric salts.
   6th. The Roman coins mav be divided into two kinds,
the red and the yellow.     The red consists of unmixed cop
per, in the examination of which nothing further was to be
observed ; in the yellow, however, the copper was mixed
with a considerable quantity of zinc.
   In order to find out a complete and accurate method of
separating the zinc I prepared a nitric solution of three
parts of copper and one part of zinc, divided it into four
portions, and employed it for the four following experi
ments :
   Exp. I. I decomposed one portion with sulphate of soda,
and precipitated the copper from it by iron . after the cop
per was separated, I evaporated the solution to a dry mass
and drove off nitric acid from it several times, till the calx
of iron was perfectly insoluble. I then precipitated the tin
from the solution freed from the iron by means of potash,
and estimated the quantity bv counter-experiments, accord
ing to which 100 parts of calx of tin gave 1 73 parts of dried,
or 123 parts of ignited, precipitated calx of tin.
   Exp. II. From the second portion I obtained the tin in
the following manner :— - When the copper was ^separated
                                                           and

          Contribution towards the assaying   of Coins.    259
and precipitated as before, by iron, I mixed the solution
to complete saturation with caustic ammonia, which again
dissolved the precipitated calx, and the calx of iron re-^
mained behind.      When the latter had been separated,       I
saturated the superabundant ammonia with sulphuric acid,
and precipitated the calx of tin by mild potash.
   Exp.   III. I employed a shorter process with the third
portion of the solution containing zinc.      Ievaporated it to
dryness, redissolved  the mass  in diluted sulphunc acid, pre
cipitated the copper by a rod of zinc accuratclv weighed, and
after its separation, precipitated the dissolved zinc by mild
potash; and from the quantity of the calx of zinc which       I
found, I deducted that portion which the rod of zinc em
ployed for the precipitation had contributed.
   Exp. IV. In regard to the fourth portion I endeavoured
to accomplish what I had in view by the following means :
I diluted it with four parts of water and poured it into a flat
dish, the bottom of which was covered by a thin plate of
lead.    At the end of a few days I found the solution com
pletely decomposed, and the copper precipitated in a me
tallic form without being rendered impure by a quantity of
precipitated metallic calx, as is commonly the case when
zinc and iron are employed for the precipitation of copper
from pure nitric acid. After the copper was separated,        I
reduced the fluid, which was of a straw colour, to a small
quantity by evaporation, mixed it with a saturated solution
of sulphate of soda, separated from it the sulphate of lead
which was formed, and precipitated the pure zinc by car
bonate of potash.    Of these four ways of detecting the tin
contained in the mixture, the last appeared to me to be the
best : I therefore employed it chiefly in my examination of
coins.
   That the calx of zinc which I obtained was actually that
substance I assured myself by mixing it with charcoal
powder, putting small plates of copper along with it in a
covered crucible and bringing it to a proper degree of heat.
After cooling, I found that the copper was converted into
brass.
   I dissolved another part in acetous acid, and left the so
lution to spontaneous evaporation, by which means the
acctite of zinc shot into that crystalline form peculiar to it,
that is to say, tablets of six planes with equal angles.
   The solutions of the Roman coins after the separation of
the zinc, when any of that metal was present,     Idivided into
two parts.  I   employed    one  of  them  to examine   whether
                            R   2                          they

260       Contribution towards the assaying   of  Coins.
they contained silver or lead, and then to precipitate th«
copper by iron : the other part I employed in order to dis
cover the zinc.                                          .   '-.-'•
   The following Greek coins were subjected to analysis
according to the preceding methods.
    I.  GREEK COINS FBOM MAGNA GRECIA AND SICILY.
   No. 1.   A  Syracusan coin of king Hiero.       On the one
side the head of a young man, ornamented with a diadem :
and on the reverse a horseman with a couched lance, and
the inscription 'hfuvos. The metal had a red colour, in
clining to pale yellow, was exceedingly brittle, and on the
fracture fine grained and dull. The coin weighed 267 grains,
and consisted of
                 Copper -                    233 grs.
                 Lead      -                  20
                 Tin                          13
                 Iron      i»
                                .
                                  -   -         l
                                             267
   No. 2.   A  Syracusan coin also. On the one side the head
of Apollo   : on the reverse the Delphic tripod, with the in
scription, Sufotxcxniw. The metal was pale yellow, brittle,
on the fracture fine grained and dull. It weighed 74 grains,
and the component parts were :
                                  -   -      6U grs,
                 Copper
                           -      -   -
                                      -44
                 Lead                      .  8
                 Tin       *      -
                                             74
    No. 3. A Neapolitan coin. On the one side a head of
Apollo, ornamented with a laurel crown : on the reverst a
 minotaur, crowned by victory, hovering over it. The sub
 scription NsxnroXitxy,    The metal was merely pale yellowy
 exceedingly brittle, fine grained, and of a steel gray colout
 on the fracture.     It weighed 7b grains, and contained
                  Copper                       54 grs.
                 Lead         -     -   -      17
                  Tin         -                 7
    No. 4. A coin of the Centuripini.        On the one srrre a
 head   of Jupiter Tonans, with a bushy beard; ornamented
     •
                                                     .     with

           Contribution towards the assaying     of Coins.     26  i
 with a crown ; on the reverse a winged thunderbolt with
 the inscription Kevropwrtviw. The metal approached a golden
 yellow colour, and was somewhat tougher than that of the
 preceding coins.     It weighed 167 grains, and contained
                  Copper     -                  142 grs.
                 Tin         -                   14
                 Lead        -       -    -      11
                                                167
    No. 5. A coin of the Brutii. On the one side a beau
 tiful bearded head of Mars, with a helmet : on the reverse
 a soldier standing, with the inscription Bpg-mwv.            The
 metal   was  pale  yellow,   brittle, and  fine  grained on the
 fracture.   The com weighed      258 grains, and consisted  of
                            -                  218 grs.
                 Copper
                 Lead                -    -      28
                 Tin        -                    12
                                               258
    No. 6. A coin of the Mamertines.          On the one side a
beautiful head of Apollo, with a laurel crown : on the re
verse a soldier sitting, with the inscription Ma^tpnyuiv. The
                            ...
metal was pale yellow, somewhat tough, fine grained on
the fracture, dull and reddish gray. The coin weighed
 195 grains, and contained
                 Copper     -       -     -    165 grs.
                 Tin                             15
                 Lead                            14
                 Silver     -                     1
                                               195
    As I did not find any traces of silver in the rest of the
coins, the small quantity found in the above case was
present, it is probable, only accidentally.
  II.   ROMAN COINS OF THE FIRST            CENTURT     OF THE
                             EMPIRE.
                            1.  Copper.
    No. 7. On the one side the head of Augustus, with the
inscription Dims Augustus Pater ; which shows that this
coin was struck after the apotheosis of that prince : on the
reverse a square altar, with its steps, and the subscription
                                R   3                Providentiee,

26*2        Contribution towards the assaying  of Coins.
Frovidenticc.      In the field the letters usual on the earlier
Ronian copper coins, namely, S. C. (Senatus consulto).
The coins weighed 144 grains, and consisted only of copper.
    No. 8. On the one side the head of Caligula: on the
reverse a Vesta sitting.     The coin weighed 141 grains, and
consisted also of pure copper.
    No. 9. On one side the head of Vespasian, with a laurel
crown : on the reverse a winged Victory, standing on the
beak of a ship and holding out a laurel crown.           The in
scription Victoria navalis. It weighed 176 grains, and was
merely of copper.
  ¦ff- ¦
                            2. Brass.
    No. 10. On the one side Castor and Pollux, under the
form of two horsemen, with the inscription Ccesar Au
gustus Germanicus : on the reverse S. C. in the middle,
with an illegible inscription.     The coin was of a brass yel
low colour. It weighed 150 grains, and consisted of
                  Copper    -      -     -    119 grs.
                  Zinc      -      -     -     31
                                              150
    No. 11. A coin struck in honour of Nero and Drusus,
the sons of Germanicus.         On the one side a quadriga: on
the reverse an indistinct figure, either a soldier standing, or
a trophy.      In colour and toughness it was similar to the
preceding".     It weighed 233 grains, and contained
                  Copper    -      -          187 grs.
                  Zinc                         46
                                              233
    No.   12.   On the one    side a head   of Tiberius,  behind
which     was an oblong impression (Tudula)
                                                   |TIA/|. On
the reverse a civic crown, with the inscription Ex S. C. olr
rives servatos.     This coin weighed 380 grains, and con
sisted   of
                  Copper    -                 296 grs.
                  Zinc     •-      -     -     84
                                              380
                                                            No.

          Contribution towards the assaying  of Coins.      263
 . No. 13. On the one      side a head  of Vespasian   : on the
reverse a soldier sitting.   It weighed  360 grains, and con
                           ...
tained
                 Copper    -                293 grs.
                 Zinc                        59
                 Lead      -                  4
                 Tin                          3
                 Iron      -                  1
                                            360
   No. 14. On one side the head of Trajan: on the reverse
a sitting figure, which seemed to be a Vesta.       It weighed
382 grains, and was composed of
                 Copper    -                326 grs.
                 Zinc                        53
                 Tin                          3
                                            382
   No. 15. Another coin with the head of Trajan: and a
similar figure on the reverse.     It weighed 365 grains, and
gave
                 Copper    -                294 grs.
                 Zinc                        60
                 Tin                         11
                                            365
    It appears from these results that the Greeks, for their
early coins, employed in general a mixture of copper, zinc,
and lead.    On the other hand, that the Roman coins are
of two kinds, one of which consists only of copper, and
the other of a mixture of copper and zinc.
   The custom of mixing copper with zinc may be traced
back to the remotest periods. It is well known that the
oldest nations employed copper in general for their utensils,
and even for their sharp cutting instruments.      But as cop
per, and especially when cast, is not of itself sufficiently
hard for that purpose, it may be readily conjectured that
experiments were made at a very early period to commu
nicate to it a greater degree of denseness and hardness by a
mixture with other metals, none of which, except tin
alone, were likely to answ er the proposed end. Such mix
tures of copper and tin were called by the Greeks xjrov'
and by the Romans ces caldarium, as at present, accord

S64           Contribution towards the assaying         of   Chins .
 LltptO the different uses to which it is applied ; -for 9tatues^
 belis, and cannon, it is called bronze, bell metal, and gim
               '
 metal.          '-'    '.'                      . ¦ .'•...".'
    But as copper by its mixture with tin hecomes denser
 and harder, acquires          greater specific gravity, and becomes
                                   a
 more sonorous,          it in the same proportion rendered more
                              is
 tender and brittle.           consequently ceases to be malleable.
                                  It
 Pliny says * Caldarium funditur tantum, malleis fragile.
 The Greek coins, therefore, consisting of such mixed
 metals, do not seem to have been struck, but to have been
 cast, and the circumstance of their being generally concave
 on one side must be considered as            a   consequence      of the
 contraction or warping occasioned by their cooling.
    Among the mixtures (temperaturu) of copper mentioned
 by Pliny, there         one in particular, which he calls tes te-
                         is
 verrimum, which           found
                              is       the Syracusan coins
                                        in                          :conit
 sists of 100 parts of copper, 10 parts of lead (plumbum
 nigrum), and          parts of tin (plumbum argentarium)
                       5                                                 of  ;
 which mixture he says that               appears with that colour
                                         it
 which he calls the Grecian (color Grcecanicus\. Under the
 term plumbum nigrum of the Roman writers we must
 understand our lead. Their plumbum argentarium, album
 candidum, however,            not lead, hut the Ratr trireme- of the
                                   is                               ;
 Greeks,    or our   tin    and
                              ;   Pliny clearly means hy tin fused
                                                                it
 from washed ore.         The word stannum. however occurs                       in
Pliny, but this word was not used bv the Romans to denote
our tin but       mixture of silver and lead, or that substance
                   a
which, in the language of the German miners,                        called
                                                                     is
uerkbleyf,      or   merely   the  uerk.    In  regard  to   the  Roman
copper coins, they consisted, as already seen, either of pure
copper or of mixture of copper and zinc, which was called
                   a
 by  the Romans aurichalcum, or orichalcum, and also ae.%
H-ori'Hthiacum, and seems to belong to the same class as our-
brass, pinchbeck, similor, &c. Metallic zinc however was
at that time entirely unknown, and no traces of                 are to-bo
                                                               it
found before the 13th century, at which time                 itwas men
tioned bv Albertus Magnus.
   It  clearly appears, from several passages in antient au
thors, that the anticnts employed a method for preparing-
this mixture of calamine (cadmia fossilis) similar to that
which we employ for the preparation of brass.               Festus says,
expressly, cadmia terra aes conjiciiur, utjiat orichaleuni.
                                                                             '
    But  it    proved,
              is                  by
                                 passage in Aristotle, that another'
                                    a
  * Lib. xxxiv.  cap. 10.
\     Lead from which the silver contained with    it   in the ore hai not:
beet* separated.       Edit.
                                                                        people,

           Contribution towards the assaying       of Coins.         26*
people, the Mossinaecj, who resided near the Euxine sea,
understood and practised this art before the Greeks or the
Romans.       That author, in his work De Mirabilibus jlus-
cuUationihus, Paris 1619, says, Aes Mossincecum (Mow-
atvQiMY xaXw)        splcndidiare candore eminent ferunt, noil
adjecto   stanno  sed  ton a quadam iftic nascenie simul in coo
turn.    Alque ejus adtemperaturai primum inventorem cclata
arte, neminem docuissc, et proinde priorum temporum cara~
ruenta its in locis posterioribus longe prcestantiora deprc-
hcnsa.
    Philologists seem entirely to have overlooked this passage,
from which the etymology of the German word messing, or
more properly, as it was formerly written, moessing, which
signifies brass, may be clearly and simply deduced.                 It is
improper to derive it from miscfien or maiscken, to mix, for
the antieats had no idea of mixture in the preparation of
this metal. They did not know that a metallic substance
is actually mixed with the copper, for they supposed that
the calamine only possessed a secret property, by which it
communicated to copper a golden yellow colour*.                     The
terms latun (laton, laiton), deduced from the Arabs, and
introduced into some of the languages of the western part
of Europe, are of later origin,
    It appears from the above passage of Aristotle, that the
art of converting copper into aurichalcum, by means of
calamine, was at first kept a secret ; but it seems to. have
become more common about the time of the Roman em
pire. But the cause of this new alloy of copper, after it
was made generally known, being mixed with tin and lead,
and used in preference for coins, no doubt was its gold
colour, which excelled that of the pale yellow aurichalcum,
and its toughness and malleability, arising from the mix
ture of calamine, which rendered it fit to be struck into
coins, whereas the old mixtures with tin could only be
cast.
    When I placed Corinthian brass in the same class as
aurichalcum, this arrangement is in contradiction to the
opinion that this metal was produced from the fused metal
of the gold, silver, and copper statues, and other articles
formed into one mass when the city of Corinth was taken
   *  I have since found that I am not the first person who has given
this etymology of the word messing; for Mathcsius says: The Latin
Bible retains Auricbaiium, that is, messing (brass), which word is cer
                                                   ....
tainly derived from the name of the people called Missoiiocci, mentioned
by Aristotle.
                        k                                            and

 266         Contribution towards the assaying           of Cbins.
and destroyed by Lucius Mummius. It is however possible",
a similar metallic mixture may have been accidentally pro
duced during the conflagration of that rich city, but no
proof of this has ever been found by actual examination.
 It appears rather from Pliny, that the expression ces Co-
rinthium was a term of art applied to a metallic mixture in
high estimation among the Romans, and which, in conse
quence of a more careful choice in the ingredients, and
 more exactness in the proportions, may have been different
from aurichakitm.      But if the opinion of antiquaries, that
the coins struck in the time of Tiberius of a gold colour
were of real Corinthian brass be well founded, the mixture
 has now been determined by assaying*.        • ,.
    In regard to the small quantity of tin and lead contained
in the coins of Vespasian and Trajan in mixture with the
zinc, the addition of these does not appear to have been a
rule. What Pliny sayS of the metal destined for statues
and tablets, that a third part of old copper was added to                    it,
was in all probability the case also in coins, and the mass
must tlierefore have been different according to the different
nature of the fragments of copper employed for the mix
ture.
   My researches in regard to the metallic mixture of the
antient coins was confined to      small number, and there
                                         a
fore are not sufficient to admit of general conclusions to be
drawn from them respecting the coins of every nation at
different periods, and according to the different changes in
the mixtures.    For this purpose much greater number of
                                             a
docimastic experiments would be necessary.
   They are, however, sufficient to excite doubts in regard to
the abundance of gold and silver which are supposed by
some to be contained in the antient coins, and to show that
the hardness of the Greek coins, and of various edged
and sharp-pointed instruments of the antients, cannot be
ascribed cither to any art now lost, nor to   supposed addi
                                                        a
tion of arsenic or iron, but merely to mixture of tinf.
                                                  a
                                                    XLV. On
    %
        In order that
                  I    might observe the real colour and appearance which
these   coins had when first struck, I  caused   two of them to be struck"
                                                                               '
anew.      The first, which was coin of Tiberius, with
                                a                           a Ceres in   asit-
ring posture on the reverse, was fused, and then rolled fiat, and struck
into    acoin.  The other with the head of Vespasian, and on the reverse
a  sitting figure, with the inscription Roma, was only smoothed, and
then smick anew.   I   then caused some artificial imitations of Corinthian
brass to be struck also, thatI   might compare them with these antient
coins.                                                                       .;
 t     The latest chemical analysis of current coias with which am acI
                                                                    quainted

                                  [    267   ]
XLV.    On Cinis; a Kind of Alkaline Earth formed during
  the Incinerat ion of Wood, not yet noticed by Chemists in
  their Nomenclature.    Addressed to George Pearsov,
  M. D. F.R.S. &c                 by
                                       Samuel          L. Mitchili., M. D.
  Member              of Congress, &c in a Letter,
                                           dated New                  York,
  September 20, 1 803, and communicated to Mr.                     Tilloch
  at the particular request of the Author.
The phenomena        of combustion have by no means been
examined to their full extent. The decomposition of wood
by fire is a very complicated process.  There is much more
to be remarked in it than has been noticed in books.       Jn
particular the formation of a new kind of alkaline earth ren*
ders it remarkably interesting.   In New York, where wood
is the principal fuel of the inhabitants, and where great
quantities of potash are manufactured from the fixed mass
which remains after burning, I have availed myself of the
opportunities afforded to find out some of the details. Those
I have endeavoured to express in the following record of
facts   :
   When    a quantity of wood (in a solid, not a rotten state),
oak   or hickory for example, has received anticrouon (the
repelling principle or caloric) enough to render it capable
of decompounding the gaseous oxide of light (oxygenous
air), it begins itself to lose its vegetable structure and to
assume new forms.       The anticrouon first dilates the wood
by increasing  the repulsion among its particles ; then it re
pels the water which it contained to such a degree as to
convert it into steam or aqueous gas. The moisture being
thus exhaled, and the wood left shrunk, perfectly dry, ana
highly heated, its carbon attracts a portion of oxygen from
the gaseous oxide of light with which it is closely invested.
The immediate consequence of this           that    portion of
                                                        is,    a
detached light becomes visible, and      quantity of extricated
                                                   a
anticrouon spreads through and over the wood, and extends
about the surrounding spaces. In proportion to the amount
and rapidity of the oxygen, abstracted from the gaseous
oxide of light, will the extricated light be vivid, and the
separated heat be intense.     While the liberated anticrouon
and light, just nascent from their latent condition,        are
quainted     that bv Dize,
                 is            Razitr'j Obiervat. sur In Pbviipie, for the
                                 in
year 1790.     But there seems to be great reason to doubt their being cor
rect, because the author makes all the coins to, consist of copper and tin,
without saying     word of the lead found
                        a                      the Greek coins, or the zinc
                                                 io.
found       in   the Roman.
                                                                       thus

     268                         On Ciuis.
    thus expending themselves upon the surrounding objects, a.
     portion of carbon, repelled from its connections in the wood,
    flies off in connection with a portion of atmospheric oxy
    gen in the form of carbonic acid air. No sooner has this
    happened than the phlogiston (hydrogen) of the fuel is re
    pelled from its association in the timber, and forming a
    new association with the oxygen of the gaseous oxide of
    light, constitutes hlaze; a meteor burning in an aerial form.
   This phlogiston and oxygen, after chemical union, turn to
   eteam, and finally condense to oxide of phlogiston or water;
   while an additional quantity of anticrouon and light are
   shed around after detachment from the oxygen, which has
  just left tbem to combine with the phlogiston to form water.
   While these changes are going on, a portion of septon
   (azote) sometimes from the vegetable body, but more
   commonly from the septous (azotic) part of the atmosphere,
   connects itself with a part of the separated phlogiston and
   turns it to volatile alkali (ammoniac). A part of the oxygen
  also combines with the basis, whatever it is, of the pyro-
  lignic acid, and this, by force of auticrouon, is repelled
  into gas.
       Thus, during    the  time that wood, oxygenous air and
  azotic air undergo their triple decomposition, liberated light,
  liberated anticrouon, carbonic acid gas, flame, oxide of
  phlogiston or water, ammoniacal gas and pyrolignic acid
 gas arc quickly produced.
      But these are only a part of the curious products of com -
 bustion.      There are several fixed substances formed whoso
 history is no less worthy of notice than that of the volatile
 ones already enumerated. These are contained in the caput
 mortuum, or residuary mass left on the hearth or in the
 fireplace after incineration, and called " ashes."
      These ashes are a very heterogeneouscollectionof materials.
 They may be properly divided into two classes, to wit,
 those which readily dissolve in water, and such as with dif
 ficulty incorporate with that fluid. The former is the saline
and the latter the earthy part of the ashes.          And both of
them,      as they most  clearly do not preexist  in the wood, are
produced by      new   combinations  of  particles during the act
tof burning.
      Of the saline portion of wood-ashes, the predominating
ingredient is the vegetable fixed alkali or potash.         When
recently formed, and fresh from the fire, this fixed salt is
in a caustic state. By exposure to the air in a cool place
for some time it attracts fixed air and becomes a carbonate
of potash. Very commonly too this aikali, when exposed
                                                                in

                              On Cutis.                         269
in foul    and nasty places, turns to a septite of potash, by
attracting and neutralizing the septic acid recently engen
dered in such situations.       Very commonly too this alkali is
found to be combined with sulphuric acid into a sulphate of*
potash ; and lately on examining some curious samples of
this salt from the manufactories, I found them to contain-
phosphoric acid.
     In these two latter cases, sometimes external causes, and
at other times the woods burned, furnish a quantity of
sulphur and phosphorus, which acidifiablc bases first turn
 to acids during the process of combustion, and then the?
 newly formed acids connect themselves with the potash to
constitute compound salts.         Frequently likewise muriate of
 soda is discovered in wood ashes ; but this seems to be da-
 rived from the culinary salt employed in cooking.
      After these saline substances are extracted by water in the
 course of lixiviation or lctching, a large quantity of earthy
 matter remains behind.          The proportion of this varies in
 die ashes of different vegetables, but in that of sound oak
 and hickory perhaps amounts to eight-tenths of the whole.
  In this state it is called letched, dead, or soap-boilers' ashes^
  and is bought at a high price by farmers in the neigh-1
  bourhood ot New York for manure.             In its crude condi
  tion, as taken from the vats or letch-tubs, it abounds with'
  charcoal, soot, and other half consumed vegetable sub
 stances which had escaped the destructive force of the fire.
  Particles of silicious and argillaceous earths are generally
  present, derived in all probability from the sweepings of
  floors, the crumbling of chimneys, and other external
  sources. Besides these there is found a quantity- of iron;
  though I have not found any of the manganese which some
  experimenters talk of. But above all, this residuary mass
  abounds in lime, which is intentionally added, in its caustic
  state, to attract carbonic and phosphoric acids from the
   potash, and thereby to render that alkali quick and active ;
  or, in maritime situations in America, a large admixture of
  calcareous earth is derived from the roasting of clams,
   oysters, and other testaceous animals, and the addition of
   their shells to the ashes. But by far the greatest proportion
   of letched ashes consists of a peculiar kind of earth-, which
   remains after all the before-mentioned materials are sepa-*
   rated.    This earth is of a whitish- colour and alkaline- qua
   lity, as you will see by the sample I 'herewith send you for
   experiments.      I think it differs materially from lime, ba-
   rytes, magnesia, strontian, or any other Known species of
                                                               earth.

  270                            On Cinti.
  earth.     And yet plentiful, common, and important as it
  is,   science has not dignified it with a name.
      To judge of the excellence of soap-boilers' ashes for ma
 nure, the following facts may give you the requisite in
 formation : — After all the salts are extracted it sells for ten
 cents the bushel *, or for one dollar and thirty-seven cents
 the cart load of fourteen bushels, deliverable at the city
 wharf.       When this is delivered to the farmer at his own
 landing, the additional cost of freight to the country (as.
 from the city of New York to Plandomc, 2o miles)- amounts
 to twenty-five cents a load ; making in the whole one hun
 dred and sixty-tw o cents. To this must be added the expense/
 of drawing and spreading it on the land. All this tire farmers
 pay ; and yet such is the competition for these refuse ashes,,
 that it is not uncommon for the farmer who buys to ad
 vance the cash to the soap-boiler six or twelve months be
 forehand. When scattered over sterile ground and ploughed
 in at the rate of twelve loads the acre, it produces great crops
 of wheat, clover, and other sorts of grass and grain; and
 its effects are so durable, that the fertilizing operation of it
 may be often discerned for seven, ten, or sometimes even
 twenty years.       It is this disposition of dead ashes to endure
 which makes it cost so much more dear than street dirt ;
 a material which, though very valuable, is by far more
 transient.
     Now, on considering         the value and efficacy of letched
 ashes it would appear,        that though some of its virtue was
 derived from the charcoal, soot, and other undecomposed
 vegetable matter, lime, and the remnant of carbonate of pot
ash which has escaped the lixiviating process, yet that its
principal worth was derived from the peculiar earth which
constitutes the chief part of its bulk. It is time to give it
a name, and to introduce it into the nomenclature.               Apd
in case you should agree with me in opinion as to the facts,
I   flatter mvself you will agree with me also in distinguish
ing it by the word Cinis, or the earth of wood-ashes. And
I must own sueh a coincidence would be very flattering to
me with one who has distinguished himself so much in im
proving the logical as well as the physical department of
science as Dr. Pearson.          Under that title it has as good a
tight to stand conspicuous, and be known and talked of, as
either magnesia or lime, potash or soda ; all of which are
to be, like cinis, considered as compounds, but retained
          * Our busbel is the sane with
                                        your Winchoctcr measure.
                                                         nevertheless

                  Account    of a Shower of Stones.             S71
nevertheless    in the list of simples until their constituent
facts can be ascertained by analyses.
    It is worthy of remark, that this earth which is so prized
in America for a manure, was esteemed of old in Asia as
an ingredient in a cement : among the antient Syrians it
was one of the materials forming the plaster of their walls ;
 and as it holds an intermediate place between lime and pot
ash, it can easily be conceived how it may act both as a ce
ment and a manure.            It is to be hoped chemists will turn
their attention more particularly than has been heretofore
done to this important but neglected subject.'
                                                              ..  j
                                                            "
.XLVI.     Account     of a Shower of Stones; in a Letter from
    the Prefect   of  the  Department of Vaucleure to tlie French
    Minister   of the   Interior,  dated November 10, 1803.,       .
   On      the 8th of September, between ten and eleven in
 the morning, being at Bastidonne, a village situated be
 tween Perthuis and Mirabeau, I heard a very extraordinary
 noise, which appeared to proceed from the mountains of
 Luberon. My mind being preoccupied, and following, at no
great distance, the drums of the national guard of the com
mune which I was going to visit, I paid very little attention
to the foregoing circumstance, and therefore I can say no
thing of the effect of this noise from my own particular ob
servation ; but I have since found that it was heard at the
same moment by the inhabitants of the several communes
which I have since visited, as tar as Gordes. The nwnicipal
officers, and various other persons with whom I have con
versed in these communes, agree in declaring .that the noise
appeared to them severally to be at the distance of a quarter
of a league from the place in which they then were j all
adding, that after a sound that appeared to be thunder,
which might last above five or six minutes, they distinctly
heard a w histling in the air, which some compared to a
swarm of flies passing near them, and others to the whis
tling of bullets,         hi                                     "»
    "  In the commune of Gordes some persons imagined
they perceived a trembling of the earth between six and
seven in the evening of the same day.                             ,
   "I    requested   the  municipal   officers, who
                                                            #
                                                    mentioned tlys
phenomenon to me, to endeavour to discover the cause, and
to send me whatever information they could procure ; but
have hitherto received only the single procet verbal, a copy
                                                                 of

                    Account     of a Shout* of Storfes.
of which I       send you;       It was accompanied with a stone,
which I cannot yet transmit to you, because the owner is
unwilling to give it up. I shall write to him, and I do not
doubt that his answer will authorize me to send it*. This
Stone, which nearly resembles those used in paving, is
about a foot in circumference.             It is heavier than flint, »
covered with a black crust, its interior colour being light
gray, mingled with iron colour* It appears1 to contain par
ticles of iron, and some brilliant grains like silver.
    " The proces vtrhal ascribes the noise, heard in the
morning of Saturday the 8th of September, to a volcanic
explosion     ; and  this was the first idea which      I entertained    of
the matter. But this idea was not confirmed by the ex
istence of any crater ; beside, is it to be presumed that the
noise of an explosion cou-ld be heard at different places with-4
in twelve      leagues distance from the spot, at the same mo
ment, and attended with the same circumstances ? Is it
to be supposed that an explosion could cast a shower of
stones over twelve leagues of circumference ? Now the stone
which fell near Apt explains the whistling that followed the
first noise, which, it is very certain, could be only the ef
fect of the fall of like stones, which, by the rapid motion
produced by their weight, were invisible to the eve. I leave
it to the learned to explain this phenomenon ; and in the
mean time I shall write to all the communes in the neigh^
bourhood of Luberon, requesting that more particular re
 searches into this matter may be made.
     "  Letters from Aix state that the noise of the 8th of
 September was heard at that place, where it was supposed
that the powder magazine of Avignon was blown up.
                                    " (Signed)       M. A. BocrdoS.
    fP P. S.    I forgot to say, that the stone mentioned in this
 letter has a foetid smell which resembles that of sour milk .
 Struck with steel it yields very tew sparks."
     A true copy. The Minister of the Interior, ChaptaI.
                               Proces Verbal.
    "   On- the 8th of September, 12th year of the republic,
 about half past ten in the morning, there appearing only a
 few light clouds in the heavens, and the weather being re
 markably calm, a noise resembling that of a cannon fired at
    * This   stone has been  since transmitted to the Minister of the Tntc-
 rior, ar.d was presented to the National Institute  on the   zfcth of Bru-
 tnaire, and is now deposited in the Museum of Natural       History. It n
 exactly of the same   kitii as those which have been gathered after similar
                                                                        the

                Account     of et Showet of Sienes.          273
 the distance of a quarter of a league, was heard with the .
 same force, and attended with the same circumstances, by -
 a number of individuals in various places ; but more parti
 cularly in the country, at the distance, at least, of seven or. .
 eight leagues from Apt, the principal town of the fourth
 district of the department of Vaucluse.       This noise, how
 ever, could be the effect only of an unusual explosion ; be
 cause it is certain that throughout the whole extent above
 mentioned, and at that hour, no cannon was fired, nor was
 there any explosion of gunpowder.         It produced, by the
 repetition of the sound     some of the mountains, the same
                            ity
 effect as the explosion of     cannon which differs in this
                                  a
 respect from claps of thunder.     This circumstance, which       •
 at tim surprised all who were witnesses of        it,
                                                    was accom-
 panied with  a   phenomenon still more extraordinary.       On.
 the same day, and at the same hour, citizen Joseph Jully,     a  .
 farmer in the district of Apt, and his wife, being about five ¦
 hundred paces from the coilntry -house of citizen Barthola-.r
 mew de VaUx, situated nortf* of the town of Apt, at the di
 stance of about  a  quarter of league, in the limits of Sau-
                                  a
 rette, having heard the noise above mentioned, immediately
 afterwards heard, for the space of six or seven minutes,      a
 whistling which increased in sound as         approached, and
                                              it
 announced the fall of some solid body. Being terrified,
 and casting their eyes upward, the wife of Jully perceived
a  black substance, whose fall on the ground both she and
 her husband heard distinctly       after which the whistling
                                      ;
 ceased.   The wife of Jully states that this black substance
 must have fallen in the vineyard of itizen de Vaux. The1
                                          c
 wife of the latter, being then in the fields, at the same mo-     ;
*ment heard the same noise and subsequent whistling, but
 being alarmed she. ran into the house, and neither saw nor
 heard the tall of the above substance.    Her son, being then
 at work three or four hundred paces from the house, also
 heard the noise, the whistling, and the sound of the fall
 of body, which, however, he did not see. At the same
    a
 instant, Marguerite Hugues, widuw, and Marie Jean, wife
 of Jacques Julien, being on the road from Villars to Apt,
 heard the same noise, the whistling and the fall of some. . -
 substance in De Vaux's vineyard, which adjoins the said
 road. After the sound of the fall, the whistling ceased.     It .**
 appeared to them that the above substance did not fall at
 more than thirty paces' distance from them.
     " As soon as the report was spread that some considera- "     ,
 hie large substance had fallen in the above vineyard,   a great
 eagerness was manifested to search for it. The attempt was
    Vol. XVII. No.    67.             S                      -at

S74            Account      of a Skoii'er of Stonef.
at first fruitless ; but on the 10th, De Vaux's sorf, m croM-«
ing the vineyard, perceived, at the distance of about thirty
paces from the house, a large hole newly made between two
rows of vines, which denpted the place where the substance
must have fallen.      He   was confirmedin this opinion when
be perceived that some      small pebbles at the mouth of the
hole were ground to powder. He then dug, and found an
extremely hard stone weighing seven pounds six ounces,
and could no longer doubt that this was the substance the
fall of which had so alarmed the neighbourhood.
    " On the rumour of these facts, I, the sub-prefect of
Apt, having sent for the stone, which had been given to-
citizen Joseph Brun, merchant of the town of Apt, by De
Vaux's son, proceeded, in company with several of the
public functionaries, on the 1 8th of September, to De Vaux's
bountry-house, and having examined the place from which
the stone was due up, we showed the stone to De Vaux's
son, who instantly knew it to be that which he had disco
vered and dug up as above mentioned, it being buried in the
earth to the depth of ten inches ; which stone he had stated
to us he had given to citizen Joseph Brun.        We also took
down the statements of the persons before mentioned, as al--
ready given : in consequence whereof we have drawn up this-
present proces verbal, which we send to the prefect of the
department of Vaucluse, together with the said stone, upon
which we have placed our seal, to the end that he may make
 the above circumstances public, if he shall think proper to
 do so, that an explanation may, if possible, be obtained of
 this phenomenon.
        " Done at Apt, on the l<)th of September 1803:
           " The Sub-prefect of Apt,       (Signed)     Terras.
     '* P. S. It is to be observed, that in citizen De Vaux*6
 vineyard there is no stone of this species, nor any stone of
 equal size.    The persons accustomed to traverse both the<
 mountains and the vallies of the district of Apt, do not re
  member ever to have seen, in any part of          stone of this
                                                   it, a
  kind.
           "True copy.     (Signed)   The Prefect of Vaucluse,
                                             "   C. A. Bourdon.
      "   True copy.     (Signed)     The Minister of the Interior,
                                              " Chaptal."
                                                           XLVII. An

                                  C     275   ]   ,
     * -            * ¦
 IXLVII. An      improved Method of heating Boilers ; being an
      Account of the Way in which the Fire is applied to one of
      the large Boilers in Messrs. Meux's Brewery.
 J.     best method of applying fire to boilers has only very
       he
lately been  made a subject of inquiry ; and it may with great
truth be asserted, that till within these few years by far the
  greater part of the fuel was entirely wasted.         It was cus
  tomary   to have a fire  under the whole bottom   of every boiler,
 and the grating which carried the fire was generally made of
 nearly the same size as the bottom of the boiler ; sometimes
 wen considerably larger. The consequence was, that the
 principal part of the heat was discharged by the chimney
 instead of being communicated to the contents of the boiler,
 and even a great quantity of the fuel was sent away, uncon-
 sumed, in the form of dense smoke.
     Count Rumford's writings have tended very much to turn
 the attention of individuals to this subject, and to econo
 mize the consumption of fuel. The winding flues he has
 so strongly recommended to be put under large boilers may
 he considered as highly preferable to the method that pre
 vailed so generally before ; nor in bringing forward the pre
 sent article have we any intention to depreciate an improve
 ment highly valuable in itself; but having been permitted
 to inspect the large boilers at Messrs. Meux's, and having
 witnessed their effects, we think we shall render an essen
 tial service to people engaged in different manufactures, in
 which boilers on a large scale are employed, by laying be
 fore them the arrangements that have been adopted in set
 ting (as workmen term             the boilers at their brewery,
                                  it)
 where proper comparative experiments are made in every
thing that regards the economy of so important             concern     a
under the direction of an able and experienced engineer,
and at an expense which would be ruinous to any under
taking of less magnitude.
    In constructing       boiler two objects ought to be kept in
                              a
view first, that
           :           large portion of the heat produced
                          a                                    the         by
combustion of the fuel may be communicated to the boiler
instead of being uselessly expended                   by
                                              the chimney; thi9
is  what      aimed at, and in some measure attained,
               is                                              the         by
winding flues recommended               by
                                     count Rumford       secondly, :
that the heat may be communicated to the boiler as rapidly
as the nature of the business may require        this    what has
                                                           ;       is
been attained at Messrs. Meux's, and with          less consumpa
tion of fuel than by any former arrangement, count Rum-
ford's not excepted.
                                  S2                                        The

2*6              An   improved           Method of Heat fag Bolters.
   The merit    and success of the construction seems to de
pend   on  making the flame and heated air impinge, and a*
>t were press against       the boiler, instead of merely passing
along easily   to the  flue.    For this purpose Mr. Woolf, the
engineer at the brewery, keeps his fire forward and forces
the flame, by interposing a wall or breast-work A (fig. I -
Plate VII.) between it and the fhre, to play against the bot
tom of the boiler, to which a large portion of heat is given
•off before the current of flame and heated air, which is next
 carried round the boiler, can find its way to the chimney.
    In fact, there are two fire-places under each of Messrs.
Meux's large boilers, separated from each other by a party-
wall B, tig. 2. In this figure one of the fire-places only is
shown, and the party-wall ; that                    is,
                                               little more than one-
                                                          a
.half of horizontal section of the furnace. The wall AEr
            a
Jbesides answering the purpose of separating the furnaces,
as already mentioned, serves to support the bottom of the
boiler C, which carries an immense weight when filled with
liquor.    The upper part of the boiler            not shown in the
                                                              is
engraving.          not an open boiler but finished in the form
                     It   is
of dome, the summit of which rises from the centre of
   a
the bottom to little more, than twice the height of the part
                          a
(shown in the figure.        At convenient part
                                              a              furaished it
with man-hole, to which
        a                             steam-tight cover
                                               a             fitted, for
                                                                    is is
the convenience of admitting the workmen to clean                     out              it
when necessary, and another hole, also fitted with                cover,          a
for admitting the hops.
    The extremity of the bottom, or the lag, as                  called,     it
                                                                             is
of the boiler, rests on brick-work (fig. 2.}, and that part
                                                     a
 of which comes immediately over the fire
   it                                                     defended by   is
 brick -work a (fig. 1.), as experience showed that this pre
 caution was necessary.
    After the flame has passed from the bare of the furnace
 ever the breast-w ork A, striking with force against the bot
 tom of the boiler,       finds its way into the circular floe D,
                                it
 which goe.< round the boiler to the place where                  joined     it   is
 to the chimney                E,   by
                             the opening or door                   F,
                                                        which is fur
 nished with       vent and register in the usual method, and
                      a
 which      shown in the figure. The flame and heated air
            is                                                                              i»
 not allowed, however,           passing into the circular flue D,
                                         in
 to keep in contact with the copper, but               forced first to
                                                                   is
 descend and pass under            little arch m, by which contri
                                           a
 vance that part of the boiler, which otherwise would soon be
 cut away, as      w ere, by the intense point of the flame,
                      it                                                                    ia
 defended from injury.
    In these furnaces Mr. Rob erton's contrivance for burning
 the smoke        made use of, which
                     i»                         found completely to
                                                          is
                 3                                                                    answer

             An  improved  Method of heating Boilers.        277
aii6\ver  the purpose intended.   Having in a former number
ofour woik given an account of this invention, we need
not here repeat it. We thiuk, however, that there will be
no impropriety in pointing out an addition which has been
made to it since its first adoption, and which is a consider
able improvement, namely, a method of getting rid of the
clinkers or vitrified scoria, invented by Mr. Woolf.        This
contrivance, which is wry effectual, has at the same time
the merit of being extremely simple. The combustion of
the fuel commences, and is chiefly carried on, on the hori
zontal part of the bars : from this the fuel is pushed back
from time to time to the inclined part, and at last the vi
trified portions fall from the lower end into a cavity o, the
bottom of which is furnished with sliding horizontal iron
doors. These from time to time are drawn out a certain
length by putting an iron hook into a hole z, in the handle
of the sliding door and drawing it outward, which dis
charges the clinkers into the ash-pit.
    The contrivance we have just described is found also to
answer another very good purpose. These boilers are tilled
and emptied several times a-day, and between each time ii
is necessary for people to go in and clean them out. To
enable them to do so the whole of this large apparatus must
 be reduced to a moderate temperature; a circumstance that
used formerly to take a considerable portion of time, with
every possible care at the same time to damp the fire.       The
introduction of these sliding doors behind the bars has been
 found to present a mean for cooling the boiler very rapidly.
When they are all drawn out at once, while the content*
of the boiler are discharging, such a draft of cold air takes
 place through that opening as absolutely to drive down the
 flame through the bars, and to cool the boilers so effectu
 ally, that by the time it is empty, which takes about twenty
 minutes, the people are able to go instantly into it.
    To give as much room as possible about the front of the
 fire-place, and at the same time to insure sufficient strength
 to the structure of brick-work inclosing the furnace and
 boiler, which from the bottom of the ash-pit to the top of
 the dome of the boiler is about twenty-one feet ; the front
 stands on pillars made of cast iron.
     Fig. 3. is a front view of one-half of the erection ; -{that
 is, enough of it to show the front of one of the two fur
 naces.)    The air which is admitted above the fuel, to in
 flame the smoke, as described in our account of Mr. Ro-
 berton's invention (vol. xi.), enters by the two small qua
 drangular apertures on a line with the lower ornament of
                               S3                             the

278         An   improved   Method    of heating Boilers.
the capital of the iron column.              These apertures grow
wider in two ¦of their sides, and closer in the other two, as
they approach the furnace, till at last thev throw in a thin
plate of air of the whole width of the fire.          The mouths of
these apertures arc made of this form for the convenience
of more easily shutting them when the fire is to be at any
time damped. The coals are introduced immediately below
these apertures over the inclined iron plate, which may be
better seen in the vertical section, fig. 1 .
     The plate, illustrating the present article, which is en
graved by Mr. Lowry, is executed in such a masterly man
 ner as to render anv further description of the parts unne
 cessary.     A bare inspection of the plate will show them
 sufficiently, without the necessity of our blotting it over
 with more letters of reference.          The letters A, B, m, and
 o, in fig. 1 and 2, refer to the same things in both.
     These furnaces answer the purpose so well, that though
 the two are both lighted to bring the worts to boil, one of
 them is soon after damped out, and the remaining one only
 kept burning till the process is ended. And it is no uncom
 mon thing for the workmen to be under the one-half of
 the boiler, making necessary repairs in the furnace, while
 there is a fire under the other half, from which they are
 only parted by the wall B before described.
     We mentioned in a former number, that the new boiler
 on Mr. Woolf 's principles now constructing is intended to
 be employed in generating steam, to be thrown into the
 large boilers in this brewery, instead of heating them by
 fire applied directly to the boilers themselves.             The very
 boiler we have been describing is one of these.                But the
  present arrangement      is still  to  remain,   that  fires  may be
 employed     as  heretofore  at  any   time  that  the new    boiler or
 •furnace may need repairs.         Besides, there are many busi
  nesses which do not admit of the boilers being heated by
  steam ; and to the proprietors of such, the present article
  cannot fail to prove highly acceptable.
      The liberality of the proprietors of the extensive brewery
  where this boiler is erected, in admitting the public to par
  ticipate in the beneficial result of economical experiments,
  ascertained at a very great expense, cannot be sufficiently
  praised. No person to whom a view of their improvements
  can be any way serviceable is refused admission into their
             ; and we are confident that the public, those at
    east to whom the economical and beneficial expenditure of
  f>remises
  fuel is an object, will feel, as we do, the weight of the ob
  ligation.
                                                        XLVIII.     Ac-

                               [     279      J
XLVIII.       Account of the Meteor seen on the Evening of
     Sunday, November \3tli. 1803; with some Observations
     on the best Means of ascertaining the Altitude, Bearing,
     Magnitude, Distance, and Velocity of such Phenomena.
     By Mr. T. Firminger.
J. was at first advertised of the appearance of this meteor
by a very strong light which rendered all the surrounding
objects visible : it was, indeed, so very bright that I could
have read a newspaper by it without the least difficulty.             I
no sooner saw this light than I was apprehensive of the
«ause which produced           it,
                                 and upon looking up saw the
meteor to the south of the zenith, and about twenty-five
degrees in azimuth to the east of the meridian               was then
                                                               ;   it
moving with       a great velocity towards the west in          rather  a
north-westerly direction       ; its course, however, was very
nearly in     aline perpendicular to the meridian.
    At its first appearance    it seemed quite round, and well
defined, except the part opposite to the direction in which
it  was moving, which seemed to project           little, and to ter
                                                      a
minate in tail that extended to small distance from
              a                          a                         (see
                                                                            it
uppermost figure, Plate VI.)          On each side of this tail
there were two or three smaller balls, tinged at their ex
tremities with yellow and orange colours, and one or two
with purple. The whole body continued to move together
without any sensible difference in either its colour or shape
till within about     a second or    second and
                                     a                half before its
                                                          a
disappearance,      when  it suddenly  altered its   figure to some
thing   tike the   shape  of  an egg, (see   the   lower    figure, in
which AB represents the direction of its motion.)              At this
moment its light became so strong that                wa3 not with
                                                       it
out much difficulty       I was able to keep looking at it.                      I
should think its light was full two-thirds as intense as that
of the 3un when upon the meridian.             seemed at this time
                                                  It
as  if the meteor had before been covered with one external
eoat, which now burst or separated in the middle the whole
length of its longest diameter, and exposed              surface with
                                                            a
a  brightness far surpassing its former lustre.           may, how
                                                              I
ever, have overrated its light,          by
                                       supposing       equal to two-
                                                          it
thirds of that of the sun when upon the meridian, for                            it
                                                                                 is
to be observed that the pupil of my eye must have been
before much dilated from the darkness of the night, to
which    it  had been exposed at least        quarter of an hour;
                                                  a
but the comparison relates to the effect        produced upon my
                                                  it
                                     S
                                     4                           .eye*

280                  Account   of   the Meteor
eyes at that moment, when compared to what the direct
rays of the sun would produce in the middle of the day.
 ¦
   The diameter of the large ball at its first appearance, by
comparing it with the moon, (which is the best object                I
fcnovv of For that purpose)    I should think subtended an
arable, of at least twenty minutes of a degree; the smaller
balls, which appeared all nearly of the same size, were about
a fifth part of the diameter of the large one, and I should
suppose subtended angles of about four or five minutes of
a degree.    The altitude of the meteor was about 50 or 53
degrees, and continued nearly the same during the whole
time of its appearance, which was about four seconds and a
half or four and three quarters ; it vanished instautaneously
with an azimuth of about 75 degrees to the west of the
meridian.                                                    »
   The azimuth and altitude were afterwards estimated b]lj
means of a needle and compass and a small Gunter's qua
drant, which 1 took to the place where 1 stood when I saw
the meteor, and they are I believe pretty correct, as the
surrounding objects assisted me very much in making these
estimates.      I also measured with a sextant the apparent path
which it described, and found it about 85 degrees.                 Its
disappearance      was  at 8h 30'"  39' mean  time,   which  I had  an
opportunity     of   ascertaining   by an excellent  chronometer    of
Mr. Eamshaw's construction which I happened to have
•with me.
    In two minutes after the appearance of this meteor I
heard a noise which sounded like a distant clap of thunder*
or like the rumbling of a coach heard at a quarter of a mile's
distance going over a stone pavement ; it was pretty loud at
first, but got gradually fainter until it was no longer audible,
and, what was very surprising, it seemed to follow the very
same track the meteor before had appeared to move in :              it-
lasted a   minute and forty seconds.
    The appearance of the meteor as          it moved along had    a
very great resemblance        to that of a   skyrocket seen at the
distance of about   a    mile. I     have also since met with per
sons who have seen meteors, and they have generally de
scribed their appearance as very much resembling that of
a  skyrocket, which may have induced some observers of
these phenomena to think they heard          a  hissing noise some
thing like what these rockets occasion for the imagination
                                             ;
is  so forcibly impressed    by    such comparisons, and the du
 ration  of  the appearance of meteors so very short, that         it
18 not  at  ail surprising we should be misled    in   our ideas, and.
                                                           combine

                        seen November     13, 1803.               S3\
 combine appearances with sensations which hare no other
 existence than in the imagination.
   The noise that followed after this meteor was particularly
noticed by several people, who, although they saw nothing
of the appearance, yet were alarmed by the singularity of
 the noise : some conjectured it to be occasioned by the over*
 setting of a coach, others by the rattling of a fire-engine,
 and others by a distant clap of thunder.
   With respect to the height of this meteor, or its dimen
sions, nothing more can at present be inferred than what is
derived by comparing the interval of time elapsed between
¦seeing the meteor and hearing the noise which it occasioned
in its passage through the upper regions of the atmosphere.
By that interval of time, its distance from me when first
observed would appear to have been about six and twenty
miles; and its perpendicular height about three and twenty
miles above the earth's surface.
   This method of obtaining its distance, however, must
be liable to great uncertainty, and can only be adopted as
an approximation, where better means are not to be ob
tained ; for although the velocity of sound is pretty well
ascertained at distances near the earth's surface, yet its ve
locity at the height of twenty-three miles above the earth
may be very different from what our calculations give it. The
real distance, therefore, can only be obtained, with any de
gree of' accuracy, by observations made at different places
at a considerable distance from each other.             It is much to
be wished     that   people,    who    happen to be so situated as to
have   an  opportunity      of  observing a meteor, would take all
possible pains    in   the  first place to obtain its altitude as cor
rectly  as   they    can,   which    may oftentimes be done with
great accuracy     ;  for  although the mind at the moment may
be altogether engaged in admiring the beautiful and curious
appearance of such a singular phenomenon, yet I believe
it will be generally in our power to remember the precise
place where we were when such a circumstance happened :
for people in general stand still when any thing chances to
Strike them with surprise, and before they proceed to re
move from that place take notice of the objects that sur
round them : and hence it very naturally follows, that when
we give an account of the appearance of any phenomenon,
we are always particular in our description of the spot from
whence we saw it.           If, therefore, at a considerable time
after, we were to go to the place where we saw a meteor, the
strong impression left on the imagination of its apparent
situation would enable us to ascertain its altitude without
                                                                being

£83                       Account   of the Meteor
 being liable to a mistake of more than about ten degrees ;
 and in a close situation, as in a street, or among houses, it
 will oftentimes happen that some object will intercept part
 of its course from the observer's sight, and then he may
 asrertain its altitude to a much greater degree of accuracy ;
i   should think, in such a case, he will seldom l>o liable to
 an error of more than live degrees, and in general will be
 able to come nearer; but even where the surrounding ob
jects are not so favourably situated, they will, if they hap
 pen to lie in the direction in which the meteor is seen, be
 always found of great service in assisting the necessary es
 timates afterwards.
    Those, therefore, who have had an opportunity of ob
 serving a meteor, should, as soon as possible, repair to the
 place where they stood when they saw          it,and    by means of
a.  common or Counter's ouadrant, or any other instrument
 that will measure altitudes, endeavour to obtain its height
 as correctly as they can     ; and at the same time, with           a
 needle and compass, take its bearing at that part of its
 course where its altitude was measured.          If, however, the
 observer should not happen to be furnished with any instru
 ments for measuring altitudes or bearings, yet              if he has.
 been so fortunate as to have compared         itwith any fixt ob
ject, or has seen, its course intercepted    bythe top of house,
                                                          a         a
 church, or any other body, and can recollect the place where
 he stood at the time, its situation may be pretty correctly,
 ascertained;   for  if he measures the distance from the place
 where he stood to the object, and then measures the height
 of the object behind which         it
                                    disappeared,    its altitude may
 be easily inferred  ; and    bycomparing the direction of such
 object with the north and south, or east and west, points,
 its bearing at that time will be had sufficiently near to be of
 considerable service, as     it  not necessary to be so correct
                                   is
 in this respect as in obtaining its altitude, though the nearer
 we can come at both the better.
     If the observer should happen to be in field, or any
                                                     a
 open place, where there are no neighbouring objects to assist
 him in his estimation, he will, however, be able to obtain
 its altitude and bearing, in the. following manner      :     Let him
 go to the place where he stood when he saw the meteor,
 and there having fixed up         rod or stick perpendicular on
                                   a
 the ground, of      asufficient length, according to the height
 at which the meteor appeared, let him recede from the
 stick until,   by looking over the top of     it, he see the top in
a  line with the place    in which   he  before  observed     the me
 teor to appear  :   ifhe then   measures   bis distance     from   tha
                                                                 stick,

                    seen November   13, 1B03.               883
slick,   and the height of his eye from the level with the
bottom, and lastly the length of the stick, he will be able
to obtain its altitude pretty correctly ; and also, by observing
the direction the stick bears from him, will obtain at the
same time its azimuth.        For this purpose the stick should
be chosen of such      a  length that he may be able to recede
from it to the distance of six or eight feet at least.    Many
people, however, who may have an opportunity of seeing
meteors and putting the above method in practice, for want
of mathematical information, may not be able to make the
necessary calculations ; but no loss will be sustained in this
case, provide such gentlemen would be careful to take their
measures as correctly as possible, and publish an account of
them, with a sketch of the method they made use of, which
would enable others to draw such conclusions as might be
necessary for their purpose, or at least be of great use to
them.
     The altitude and bearing at the time are the most neces
 sary to be known.       The apparent diameter, time of dura
 tion, and extent of the track through which the phenome
 non move may, however, be of great service when they
 can be obtained with any tolerable degree of accuracy. But
 here I must observe, that all estimations of altitudes with
 out instruments or anv means of measuring are too falla
 cious to be depended on, and can seldom or ever be ad
 mitted into computation.       Let any one go out in the even
 ing, and endeavour to estimate the altitude of a star, ox
 any other object, and he will soon find himself liable to an
 error of twenty or thirty degrees, generally estimating the
 altitude too high.     This I particularly instanced in the ap
 pearance of the meteor I have here described ; for, before I
 measured its altitude with a quadrant, I had estimated it
  fifteen or twenty degrees higher than it was. In ascertain
  ing the apparent magnitude of meteors it has been, I be
  lieve, the most usual way to compare their appearance with
  that of the moon ; and if the moon is visible at the time,
  it will afford a pretty good object for that purpose 5 but if
  the moon should not be visible, it must be liable to a con
  siderable degree of uncertainty.
      The apparent diameter of the meteor here mentioned I
  have supposed to subtend an angle of not less than twenty
  minutes of a degree, which, with the distance deduced from
  the interval between the appearance of the meteor and hear
   ing the sound, gives its real diameter nearly 280 yards, or
  almost half a mile in circumference ; and also, by com
  paring the'extent of track through which it moved with the
                                                             lima

CM                   Account   of New Publications.
time    of its duration,    its velocity will appear to have been
between       seven and    eight miles in a second :— a velocitv
which more than twenty times exceeds the greatest velocity
of a cannon ball, and can onlv be compared to what we at
present know of the amazing velocity of electricity.
    In accounting for the nature and production of meteors,
it is evident that nothing can help us in our inquiries so
much as a knowledge oi their dimensions, their distance,
and the extent of space through which they move ; and
these are only to be obtained by good observations.             Al
though      their   appearance    and  the  manner   in which  they
burst are very curious, and should as much as possible be
observed, yet an attention to these circumstances alone
are not sufficient to throw much light upon them, when
unassisted with any knowledge of their real situation and
dimensions.
               XLIX-     Account    of New Publications.
A    Treatise on the Culture and Management of Fruit-Trees,
    in which a new Method of Pruning and Training is fully
    described,     &c. &c. By W. Forsyth, F. A. S. and
    F. S. A. &c. &c. Third Edition. Svo.
This work         is so well known to the public already that any
account of it from us would be superfluous. We only take
notice of the present edition for the purpose of mentioning
a new way of treating diseased trees, and to extract from it
a testimonial highly creditable to Mr. Forsyth.
  ' "   I avail myself of this opportunity (says Mr. F.) to add
a discovery which I have recently made, and which, as
being calculated to save time and labour, may deserve at
tention,
    *' Instead of paring away the bark, as had heretofore
been the practice, and covering the stem with the compo
sition, I now merely scrape off* the loose bark, and apply
a mixture of cow-dung and urine only (made to the con
sistence of a thick paint) with a painter's brush, covering
the stem carefully over.           This softens the old scabrous
bark, which peels off during the following winter and
spring, and is succeeded by a fine smooth new bark."
        "  To   Mr. Forsyth, Royal Gardens, Kensington.
        "  SIR,
     *' As you had the      goodness lately to give us an oppor
tunity of examining         several trees in. Kensington gardens in
                                                               ¦th»

                      Philosophical     Society, Glasgow.                28*
tne various stages of renovation, or filling up with nev»
wood; and as reports have been circulated, tending to dis
credit the efficacy of your process ; — we feci it an act of
justice, not only to you, but to the country, which is
 deeply interested in your discoveries, thus publicly to de
 clare, that the statements you have published on the subject
 contain nothing more than the truth.
         John Coakley Lettsom, M. D. F. R. S. &c.
         William Woodville, M. D.*
         James Sims,         M.D.f
         William Norris.J
         Joseph Hart Myers, M. D.§
         Astley Cooper. ||
         Edward Coleman,
         H. N. Willis, F. R. S. &c"
    London, Nov. 17,
             1 So j.
  -  L.     Proceedings      of Learned and Economical Societies.
                KO\AL INSTITUTION          OF GREAT       BRITAIN.
 The        lectures for the ensuing season commenced on Thurs
  day the 22d of December, with a course on Mechanics and
  Physics, by Mr. Dakon. In the latter end of January the
  other lectures and the public experiments of the Royal In
  stitution will begin : those on Chemistry by Mr. Davy, and
  those on Natural Philosophy by Mr. Allen.                         The public
  experiments         will be  made,     partly  in  the  lecturc-rooni, and
  partly in the new laboratory, which has been fitted up so as
  to accommodate 120 persons.                   The new library of refer
  ence is in a state of forwardness, and, it is hoped, will be
  opened in the course of next month for the accommodation
  of all the proprietors, life subscribers, and annual sub
  scribers.
                        THE BOARD OF AGRICULTURE
                     Has offered the following Premiums :
      I.   Cottage. — To the person who shall build, and describe
  to the board, the cheapest cottage, being at the same time
  durable and comfortable, with not less than two rooms-
     *
        Physician to the Small- Pqx and Inoculating Hospitals ; and author
  of I work      on Medical Botany.
     t   President of the Medical Society of London.
     1 Surgeon to the Charter- House, tic.
     S Physician to the General Dispensary,         Aldersgate-strcct.
     l| Surgeon      of Guy's Hospital.
          Professor of the Veterinary College.
     J_
                                                                        above,

186             Royal Institution of Great Britain^ &c.
above,   and the same number below, — the gold medal.                                A
plan, elevation, and account of the materials and expense^
verified by certificates, to be produced on or before the first
Tuesday in May,                1S04.
    II.Cottage. — To the person who shall produce to the
board the model of the best and cheapest cottage, on a scale
of one inch to a foot ; with estimates of the expense of
erecting    — from five to ten guineas, according to merit.
                it,
To be produced to the board on or before the first Tuesday
in December, 1804.
                                   [To   be continued. J
                    PHILOSOPHiCAL          SOCIETY,             GLASGOW.
    tt   with much satisfaction we notice at any time new
         is
institutions intended for the promotion of science and the
arts;  for the tendency of all such institutions    to increase       is
the comforts of mankind.        On the 9th of November this
society elected its office-bearers for the ensuing year, viz.
   William Micklehairii L. L. D. Professor of Natural Phi
      losophy in the University of Glasgow, President.
   John Robertson, esq. Vice-president.
   Wrh. Duncan, esq. Secretary.
   John Lindsay esq. Treasurer.
                        j
                      DIRECTORS.
Geo. M'Intosh, esq.        Mr. Peter Nicholson,
Geo. Birkbeck, L. L. D.    Mr. John M'Caulay,
James Monteath, esq.       Mr. John Napier,
John Geddes, esq.          Mr. Wm. Dun,
Alexander Drummond, esq. Mr. John Smith,
Robertson Buchanan, esq.   Mr. Robert Hastic.
              Ll.     Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                           VOYAGE OF DISCOVERY.
Extract        ofLetter from Dr. Tilesius, Naturalist, le-
                    a
    longing to the Russian Ships now on Voyage  Discovery    a        of
    round the World.
                                           Santa Cruz,    the Island of TencrifT,
                                                               in
                                                   October 35, 1803.
A   have just           returnedtour to the bottom of the
                                    from    a
              At this    season    of  impossible to reach
                                         the year
                                                    it it   is is
peak.
the summit of      for one half of
                         it,            covered with snow
and ice.     have, however, been well rewarded
               I                                     for the
fatigue  experienced   in my laborious  excursion.      have
                                                                           I I
          I
made the most astonishing discoveries. In particular      ave                    h
                                                       found

                         Voyage   of Discovery.                '. £57
found an animal which has hitherto been considered as a
plant, because we were acquainted with it only in its dry
state.      I have also seen mummies found in caverns near
St. Andre, and which must have belonged to the former
inhabitants of the country. For three days past I have been'
riding up and down the mountains.                  The sea shore at
 Orotrava has furnished me with several interesting objects,
 as well as that of Poa, Sausal, and Santa Cruz.                  The
 greatest     number    of  new   species   I found  among    the  sea
hedge-hogs,        sea stars,  polypes,   and  other mollusca/
     The soil of the island is entirely volcanic. There are
 here a great many varieties of lava.          The marquis of Cassi-4
 cahigal, the governor of the island,- who resides at Santa
 Cruz, received us with great kindness and hospitality, and
 gave us letters of recommendation to Orotrava. He showed'
 us his two gardens at Santa Cruz, where we found many
 Tare plants, some of which our ambassador,              M. Resanof
 Samercyen requested for his imperial majesty. The great
 botanical garden, however, formed by the marquis de Nova>
 who resides at Laguna, in this island, exceeded our expec
 tation; it was laid out in the year 1795, close to the town
  of Orotrava. The marquis sent for an experienced gardener
  from England, named Cornelius Macmanus.                This intelli
  gent man amused us a whole forenoon with showing us
  proofs of his industry; he is a good botanist and has studied
  Linnaeus : he makes frequent excursions to the interior
  parts of the country, and has already discovered several new-
  African species.        I have written a catalogue of them.       In
   regard to the history of the country I have collected some
  excellent materials towards it : 1 have delineated an antient
   monument, and copied an inscription which relate to the
  history of Tenerift".
      The old Guanches, the former inhabitants of the Canary
   islands, whose mummies are still found sewed into sheep's
   skins, in holes of the rocks of mount Altobasso, Sausal,
   and St. Andre, and also in the Grand Canary are in
   their original dress, each with a thigh bone in its hand,
   and the head crowned with flowers; they are clothed in the
   skins of animals each at the side of its monument.               At
   the top of the monument stands the Santa Maria de Can-
   dellera.     I have also delineated several picturesque and re-
  jnarkable objects, such as landskips, dresses, towns, and
   productions of the island, and constructed maps which
   will be completed on my return. The greater part of the
   rarities I collected myself, and the productions of the peak
   were given to me by the captain of an American ship, who
                                                                  made

 *88     Inoculation    for the Vaccine and the Ptague,   &t.
 made a journey to tlx summit of the peak in the month of
August.        We sailed from Falmouth on the 5th of .October
 and arrived here a few days ago. In four days at furthest
¦we shall proceed to Rio de Janerio, in Brazil, from which        I
*rill write    to you again*
      Inoculation for the vaccine and the plague.
Juctract of a Letter from Dr. De Carro, of Vienna, to             a
                         Physician in London.
     Dr. Valli who inoculated himself with the plague, in
 order to try whether the vaccine is a preventative of that
 disease, has, as appears, at length taken the plague, but it
 is expected he will recover.
     The question relating to dogs has not been resolved in a
 manner favourable to the assertion of Dr.              , but as it
 does not affect the principal point of the doctrine of the
 vaccine inoculation it is of little importance, and the doctor
 has written to me that he has not been fortunate in his zoo-
 nomical researches.
    The question relative to the claveUe is now quite re
 solved, the cow-pock does not preserve sheep from future
 infection, as the inoculated small-pox preserves men from
 future variolic infection.      The practice of clavelisation is
 now extending very widely.          Some assert that they have
 produced the cow-pock pustule on sheep, but hitherto no
 experiments have proved that it is a preventative against
 the clavelie.      The celebrated and ingenious Dr. Sacco has
 produced the cow-pock on most domestic animals, among
 others sheep, and reproduced the disease in men and ani
 mals. Dr. Sacco has had the same success with equine as
 with vaccine matter. I have no knowledge of the experi
 ment made in Ukraine which you mention. I imagine the
journalist alluded to has mistaken clavelisation for vacci
nation.
                              PALLADIUM.
        sir,                To  Mr. Tilloch.
     As it  is said  in one of your Magazines that  the new metal
 I  have called palladium is not a new noble metal, as I have
 said, but an imposition, and a compound of platina and quick
 silver,  I  hope you will do me justice in your next ; and tell
 your   readers   I promise a reward of twenty pounds to any
 one that can make only twenty grains of real palladium ;
 and that the money is already in Mr. Forstcr's hands, and
 that I have begged Mr. Nicholson will name three proper
 chemical gentlemen as umpires.                                  P.

                                 [     289    ]
LII.    Chemical Examination           of an antient Speculum.             By
                 Professor     Klaproth, of Berlin *.
JL   hat    the history   of the antient metallurgy            depends on a
                                                                                 *
proper explanation        of   the different passages relating to          it,
which      are to be found   in antient authors, requires very
                 Though various men of learning who have
                                                                     -
 little proof.
 made this point the particular object of their research have
 collected these scattered fragments, and have endeavoured
to exhibit them in more conspicuous point of view
                       a                                         ar   by
 ranging them in order, every thing belonging to this sub
ject has not yet been properly cleared up and, notwith     ;
 standing the diligence of the old philologists, many cir
 cumstances are still left         state of doubt and obscurity,
                                  in a
 the cause of which seems chiefly to be the insufficiency of
 the means employed for that purpose. On the other hand,
 the critics and antiquaries of the present day are in posses
 sion of many helps which were wanting to the former and              ;
 in this respect chemistry and mineralogy may be considered
 as of the greatest utility when          necessary to determine
                                         it   is
 the nature and component parts of the antient metals.
     Under conviction that every contribution towards en
             a
 larging our knowledge of these compositions              of consi
                                                               is
 derable importance,     have already
                           1             directed my   attention  to
 the numismatic part of the antient metallurgy, and given
 an account of the result of the experiments           made to de
                                                           I
 termine the alloys which the Greeks and Romans employed
 for their earlier coins   f.The object of the present essay is,
 the chemical examination of the metallic mass of an antient
 speculum.     When the wants of mankind were increased
 in consequence of their improved state of civilization, that
 natural mirror the smooth surface of         piece of water was
                                                   a
 no longer sufficient'; artificial speculums which they might
 always have at hand, and which they could use with more
 convenience, became indispensably necessary.            The only
 materials which they could employ to construct them were
 metals for as soon as men began to work them they could
        ;
 not help observing and turning to advantage their suscepti
 bility of fine polish, which exhibited
            a                                    distinct image of
                                                       a
 such objects as were presented to them.
 I     do not know whether there be any mention of metallic
 mirrors earlier than that in Exod. c. xxxviii. v. 8., where
       • From Scherer's
                        Allgemeines Journal        da   Cbemic, No. 33.
      t  See page 156 of this volume.
     Vol.. XVII. No. 68.               T                                   we
        January 1804.

290    CJiemical Examination                of an antient Speculum.
 we are told that the mirrors used by the Israelitish ladies at
 their toilet were put in requisition by Moses, in order that
 they might be cast into a large bason for washing the feet
 of the priests.   In our common German translation of the
 Bible, no mention is made in this passage of mirrors ) for
 Luther translates it — " And he made the hand-bason of
 brass, and iu stand also of brass, in the presence of the
 women who served before the door of the tabernacle.*'
 Luther consequently has considered the word maroth in
 the original as the plural of marah, which is deduced from
 raah, and which therefore signifies, " in the sight of the wo
 men." Luther, however, is the more inexcusable in this
 passage, as the word maroth, a mirror, occurs in the Bible
 only m this passage.       The Septuagint, the Vulgate, the
 English and Dutch Bibles, all, however, agree in transla
 ting Beramoth " of the mirrors," as being more correct : and
 we find by Pliny * that the Pagan women, when attending
 the worship of their deities, were ornamented with metallic
 mirrors.     We are told also by Cyrillus Alexandrinus     that        f
 the Israelitish women adopted the same custom, which they
 borrowed from the Egyptians.
    A passage in Job, c. xxxvii. v. 18, makes mention
also of the solidity of cast mirrors.      But the authority of
this passage as a proof of the great antiquity of metallic
mirrors is much lessened by the doubts which some of the
modern critics entertain respecting the period when this
book was written : being considered as not older than the
time of Solomon, it is ascribed to that sovereign or to some
of his cotemporarics. Menard, in his Recherches svr Its
Miroirs des Anciens, makes Cicero ascribe the invention of
metallic mirrors to ^sculapius : " The first mirrors," says
he, " were of metal ; and Cicero ascribes the invention to
the first jEsculapius." But must it not appear singular that
-flisculapius, a deity who exerted himself so much for the
benefit of mankind, should be the inventor of mirrors ?
The passage of Cicero, translated by Menard, is to be found
in the treatise De Natura Deorum, and is as follows: JEs-
atlapiorum primus, Apollinis, quern Arcades colunt, qui
specillum iiwe/iisse, primusqve vulnus dicitur obligavisse.
But it may be readily seen that Menard has here committed
a most egregious blunder, as he took the word specillum
which signifies a probe, for speculum which expresses a
mirror ; and therefore was guilty of a more serious offence
          4   Lib xxxiii.         cap. 9; lib. xxxiv. cap. 17.
          f   Lib.   ii.   vol.   i-    64., De Adurauone m Spiritu.
                                       p.
                                                                       towards

        Chemical Examination           of an antient Speculum.           29   1
 towards the Roman consul, who certainly would not have
 extolled at the same time the person who first bound up
 wounds, and the inventor of that appendage of the toilet
 called a mirror.
     In the earliest periods a mixture of copper and tin was
 employed for the composition of mirrors.          We are told by
 Pliny that those manufactured at Brundusium were consi
 dered as the best, but in the course of time a preference was
          to silver mirrors which were made by an artist named
    rasiteles, who lived in the time of Pompey the Great.
 fiven
 That these consisted of hammered plates of pure silver ap
 pears from the following words : Lamina auci et specula
fieri van nisi ex Optimo (argento) posse creditum juerat.
 The silver, however, was sometimes mixed with other me
 tals : Id quoque jam fraude corrumpitur.        These silver mir
 rors were afterwards plated with gold, in order to render
 the image more distinct.        This, at least, seems to appear
 from the following passage, which, however is involved in
 some obscurity : Nuper credi cceptum, certiorem imaginem
 reddi auro opposito averso.
     Mirrors in general formed part of the household furni
 ture of the Roman ladies of the first rank. This is con
 firmed in particular by Seneca, who satyrizes the great ex
 tent to which the luxury of the apparatus of the toilet had
 been carried among the female part of his fellow citizens.
     What this excellent moral philosopher says in another
 place * respecting the wise purpose for which mirrors might
 be employed is so beautiful that I cannot forbear quoting
 it : Inventa sunt specula ut homo ipse se nosceret. Multo
 ex hoc consecuta, primo sui notitia, deinde et ad qucedam
 consilium.      Formosus, ut vitaret infamiam: deformis, ut
 sciret redimendum       esse virtutibus quidquid corpori deesset :
juvenis, ut fiore cetatis admoneretur, illud teinpus esse dis-
 cendi : senex, ut indecora canus deponeret, et de morte ali-
         cogitaret. Ad hoc rerum natura facultatem nobis de-
Juid nosmet-ipsos videndi. But for this purpose artificial
  it,
 mirrors of great price were not necessary         as, Jons cuique
                                                                ;
 pellucidus, out Iceve saxum, imaginem reddi             After ob   t.
 serving    that mirrors,  in consequence   of the increasing lux
 ury of mankind, had been applied to the worst purposes,(to
 gratify pride and voluptuousness, he adds, that they were
 made of the full length of           man, covered with gold and
                                                                    "
                                     a
 silver and set round with precious stones — One mirror
                              "
                                                                :
 of this kind," says he,         costs more to   lady than in for-
                                                            a
                     *   Natural.   Quaest.   lib.   i.   17.
                                    Ts                                   mer

S02-    CJiemical Examination        of an antient Speculum.
nier times the dowry given by poor generals to their daugh
ters : the dowry which the senate gave to the daughter of
Scipio would not purchase at prcseut a minor tor the daugh
ter of a freed-man."
   Beckmaa, in his History of Inventions, is of opinion
that those mirrors which were so large that people could
see themselves in them at full length were made of plates
of polished silver ; for he observes, that to cast mirrors of
such a size from copper and tin would require more art
than can be allowed to that period.              " I do not know,"
adds he,    "  whether our artists would succeed in such an
operation."      But it appears more probable from the above
passage    that  the  mirrors in question were not of silver but
of iron, as Seneca says that they were covered with gold
and silver; but the covering with silver would have been
superfluous had the mirror itself been of that metal.
    Though it evidently appears from Pliny and other au
thors that the composition of mirrors in general consisted
of a mixture of copper and tin, my late colleague M. Moh-
sen, in his Description of a Cabinet of Coins *, asserts that
the union of these two metals was unknown to the antients ;
lor he says, " It is found by the examination of antient
coins, made w ith the severest tests, that before the time of
Septimius Sevcrus none of the coins were mixed with lead
or with tin." That this assertion is unfounded has been fully
proved by my chemical experiments on this subject, which
1 had the honour of laying before the Academy of Sciences.
    Hitherto, however, it lias not yet been determined by
certain analysis whether the component parts mentioned by
Pliny are contained in the antient mirrors j and, if this be
the case, in what proportion.             A fragment df an antient
mirror found with other antient vessels in a grave, af
forded me an opportunity of examining it chemically, and
of comparing my experiments with those of Roux, the only
ones of the kind ever before made.              Roux's experiments
were made on an antient minor found also at Naples, and
may be seen in the Recueil d'Antiquites of count Caylusf.
The author describes the metallic mass as exceedingly brittle
and tender, and of a white colour inclining to gray : when
put into the fire it continued a considerable time in a state
of ignition before it fused. It did not inflame, and neither
emitted an arsenical odour nor vapours of zinc. So tar this
description corresponds, with that of the mass which I exa-
   *
      Beschreibung   seiner Berlinisch.cn  McdaiUen-Sanunlung, part i-
p. 2S0.
   t Part v. p. 17+.
                                                             mined;

              Chemical Examinationof an antient Speculum. £Q3
 mined ; but the       component parts which I found are consi
 derably different from those given by Roux ; who thinks
 that, besides copper and lead, he discovered also antimony :
 on the other hand, he found no zinc.
    Professor Beckman, in his History of Inventions, considers
 it very probable that antimony was known at that period,
 and that it was employed in metallic compositions.        He
 therefore requested the opinion of M. Gmelin on this sub
ject, and the latter informed him that it was not impro
 bable that the mass of the metallic mirror examined by Roux
 might have contained antimony : he was not, however, con
 vinced that it contained no tin.
    On the other hand, the results of my experiments gave
 me, as the component parts of the antient mirror, copper,
 tin, and lead.
    The fragment   subjected to analysis consisted of a me
tallic plate, both sides of which were covered with a flat
stratum of verdigris, composed of tender fibres, arranged
concentrically in a Tadiated form.   The mass was compact,
very hard and brittle ; on the fracture, when fresh, of a
grayish white colour, and by polishing acquired the beauti
ful splendour of a mirror.   The specific gravity of the me
tallic mass, when freed from the green rust, was to that of
distilled water as 8580 to 1000.
    1st, A hundred grains of this mass being put to digest
with nitric acid, gave a blue solution, and after repeated
digestion left a whitish gray powder, which weighed 39
grains.
   2d, The nitric solution being evaporated to a small
quantity was subjected to proof with a saturated solution
of muriate of soda, but no alteration was produced. The
mixture being then decomposed with sulphate of soda, it
became turbid and deposited a white heavy precipitate,
which consisted of sulphate of lead. The whole quantity
of      it,
         when collected, was equal to    6grains of metallic
lead.
     The copper was then precipitated from the solution by
iron.    The whole quantity of the metallic copper consisted
of      62 grams*
   4th, Muriatic acid being poured over the 39 grains left
It by
    the nitric acid, the whole was exposed to slow digestion.
   gradually dissolved into     clear fluid of
                                    a         a straw-colour.
It was then diluted with three parts of water, and rod of
                                                     a
zinc being immersed in        it,
                              metallic tin was by degrees de
posited in dendritic form, which when collected weighed
                a
32 grains.
                                T3                    Ahun-

294    Chemical Examination             of an antient Speculum.
   A hundred parts      of   the metal    of this antient mirror con
                                .-
sisted therefore of
                                                       Grains.
               Copper           -                        62
               Tin                                -      32
               Lead             -   .     -               6
                                                        100
  From this     analysis     it appears       that the antients, in the
composition of their mirrors, employed                the same     kind of
mixture   as  that used at present for the specula of tele
scopes.     The   quantity of lead is here so small that it is
hardly    worth   notice, since it would produce no alteration
of any importance. Besides, it is probable that the lead
found in this case, did not belong to the formula of the
component parts, but arose merely from the adulteration
of the tin, as tin no doubt was sold at a much higher price
among the antients than it is among us. Pliny complains
of this adulteration of tin in the followiug passage (lib.
xxxviii. cap. 6.) : Plumbum candidum. That this expres
sion means tin has been mentioned already — quod cert in-
coquehatur hnprohutres nigro temporalant.
   The proportion of the metals also in these antient mir
rors corresponds nearly with that used at present for the
specula of telescopes, and consisted usually of two parts
copper, and one part of tin.
    Our artists, however, are accustomed to employ other
metallic additions, such as silver, zinc, antimony, arsenic,
but these substances are added in so small quantities, that
they cannot be considered as essential to the composition :
the intention of adding them is partly to render the metal
more secure from rust, and partly to make the mixture
more fusible.       It is with the latter view that arsenic is
added,    and  it in  some measure answers the purpose.     The
antients, who were not acquainted with arsenic, could de
rive no benefit from its quality of rendering metals more
fusible.
    Metallic mirrors, since the invention of glass ones, have
been entirely disused as articles of" furniture.    But a glass
mirror, properly speaking, is metallic ; for it is not the glass
but the amalgam of tin, placed at the back of             which  it,
 reflects the image of the object presented to it.
                                                                 UII.   An

                              [   295    ]
LIII.     An Account of    some Experiments       and Observations
    on the constituent Parts of     certain astringent Vegetables ;
    and on their Operation       in  Tanning.      By Humphrey
    Davy, Esq., Professor of Chemistty in the Royal In
    stitution.
                       [Concluded from p. 217.]
IV.    Experiments and Observations on the astringent Infu
         sions of Barks, and other Vegetable Productions,
 JL he barks that I examined were furnished me by my                 ¦
friend Samuel Purkis, esq., of Brentford : they had been
collected in the proper season, and preserved with care.
    In making the infusions, I employed the barks in coarse
powder      ; and, to expedite the solution,    a heat of from  100
to 120° Fahrenheit was applied.
    The strongest infusions of the barks of the oak, of the
Leicester willow, and of the Spanish chestnut, were nearly
of the same specific gravity, 1'05. Their tastes were alike,
and     strongly astringent; they all reddened litmus paper;
the infusion of the Spanish chestnut bark producing the
highest tint, and that of the Leicester willow bark the
 feeblest tint.
    Two hundred grains of each of the infusions were sub
mitted to evaporation ; and in this process the infusion of
 the oak bark furnished 1 7 grains of solid matter, that of
 the Leicester willow about 16$ grains, and that of the Spa
 nish chestnut nearly an equal quantity.
     The tannin given by these solid matters was, in that from
 the oak bark infusion, 14 grains, in that from the willow
 bark infusion 14$ grains, and in that from the Spanish
 chestnut bark infusion 13 grains.
     The residual substances of the infusions of the Spanish
 chestnut bark, and of the oak bark, slightly reddened litmus
  paper, and precipitated the solutions of tin of a fawn colour
 and those of iron black.       The residual matter of the infu
  sion of the willow bark, did not perceptibly change the co
  lour of litmus ; but it precipitated the salts of iron of an
 olive colour, and rendered turbid the solution of nitrate of
  alumine.
     The solid matters produced by the evaporation of the in
 fusions, gave, by incineration, only a very small quantity
  of ashes, which could not have been more than -^th of
 their original weights. These ashes ehiefly consisted of
                                T4                        calcareous

296            Experiments and Observations         on the
calcareous earth and alkali ; and the quantity was greatest
from the infusion of chestnut bark.
   The infusions were acted on by the acids and the pure
alkalis in a manner very similar to the infusion of galls.
With the solutions of carbonated alkalis they gave dense
fawn-coloured precipitates. They were copiously precipi
tated by the solutions of lime, of strontia, and of barytes ;
and, by lime water in excess, the infusions of oak and of
chestnut bark seemed to be deprived of the whole of the
vegetable matter they held in solution.
    By being boiled for some time with alumine, lime, and
magnesia, they became almost colourless, and lost their
         of acting upon gelatine and the salts of iron. After
  cing heated with carbonate of lime and carbonate of mag
Eower
nesia, they were found deeper coloured than before ; and,
though they had lost their power of acting on gelatine,
they still gave dense olive-coloured precipitates with the
salts of iron.
    In all these cases the earths gained tints of brown, more
or Irss intense.
   When the compound of the astringent principles of the
infusion of oak bark with lime, procured by means of lime
water, was acted on-by sulphuric acid, a solution was ob
tained, which precipitated gelatine, and contained a portion
of the vegetable principles and a certain quantity of sulphate
of lime ; a solid fawn-coloured matter was likewise formed,
which appeared to be sulphate of lime united to a little
tannin and extractive matter *.
   The solutions were copiously precipitated bysolution of
albumen.
   The precipitates they gave with gelatine were similar in
their appeavance ; their colour at first was a light tinge of
brown, but they became very dark by exposure to the air.
Their composition was very nearly similar ; and, judging
from the experiments on the quantity of gelatine employed
in forming them, the compound of tannin and gelatine
from the strongest infusion of oak bark seems to consist,
   •  M. Mem Guillot proposes a method of procuring pure tannin
(Anitakt di Cbin.ie, tome xli. p. 315), which consist* in precipitating a
solution of tan by lime water, and decomposing it by nitric or muriatic
acid.   The solution of the solid matter obtained in this way in alcohol
he considers as a solution of puie tannin ; but, from the experiment*
above mentioned, it appear-, that it must contain, besides tannin, some of
the extractive matter of the bark ; and it may likewise contain saline
matter.
                                                                       in

           constituent Parts of astringent  Vegetables.       297
in   the 100 parts, of 59 parts of gelatine and 41 of tannin;
that from the infusion of Leicester willow bark, of 57 parts
of gelatine and 43 of tannin ; and that from the infusion of
Spanish chestnut bark, of 61 parts of gelatine and 39 of
tannin.
     Two pieces of calf-skin, which weighed when dry 1 20
grains each, were tanned ; one in the strongest infusion of
Leicester willow bark, and the other in the strongest infu
sion of oak bark.      The process was completed, in both in
stances, in less than a fortnight; when the weight of the
 leather formed by the tannin of the Leicester willow bark
was found equal to 161 grains, and that of the leather
formed by the infusion of oak bark was equal to 164
grains.
     When pieces of skin were suffered to remain in small
 quantities of the infusions of the oak bark, and of the Lei
 cester willow bark, till they were exhausted of their tanning
 principle, it was found, that though the residual liquors
 gave olive-coloured precipitates     with the solutions of sul
 phate of iron, yet they were scarcely rendered turbid by
 solutions of muriate of tin ; and there is every reason to
 suppose that a portion of their extractive matter had been
  taken up with the tannin by the skin.
     I attempted, in different modes, to obtain uncombined
 gallic acid from the solid matter produced by the evapora
 tion of the barks, but without success.       When portions of
 this solid matter were exposed to the degree of heat that is
  required for the production of gallic acid from Aleppo galls,
  no crystals were formed; and the fluid that came over gave
  only a brown colour to the solution of salts of iron, and
 was found to contain much acetous acid and empyreumatic
 oil.
     When    pure water was made to act, in successive por
  tions, upon oak bark in coarse powder, till all its soluble
 parts were taken up, the quantities of liquor last obtained,
 though they did not act much upon solution of gelatine, or
 perceptibly redden litmus paper, produced a dense black
 with the solution of sulphate of iron : by evaporation, they
  furnished a brown matter, of which a part was rendered
  insoluble in water by the action of the atmosphere; and the
  part soluble in water was not in any degree taken up by sul
  phuric ether ; so that, if it contained gallic acid, it was in a
  state of intimate union with extractive matter.
     Two pieces of calf-skin, which weighed when dry 94
  grains each, were slowly tanned ; one by being exposed to
  a weak infusion of the Leicester willow bark, and the other
                                                                by

*9*           Experiments and Observations          on ilie
by being acted upon by a weak infusion of oak bark. The
process was completed in about three months ; and it was
found that one piece of skin had gained in weight 14 grains,
and the other piece about 16£ grains.           This increase is pro
portionally much less than that which took place in the,
experiment on the process of quick tanning.                 The colour
of the pieces of leather was deeper than that of the pieces,
which had been quickly tanned ; and, to judge from the
properties of the residual liquors, more of the extractive
matters of the barks had heen combined with them.
   The experiments of Mr. Biggin * have shown that si
milar barks, when takan from trees at different seasons,
differ as to the quantities of tannin they contain: and              I
have observed that the proportions of the astringent, prin
ciples in barks vary considerably according as their age and
size are different ; besides, these proportions are often in-,
fluenced by accidental circumstances, so that it is extremely
difficult to ascertain their distinct relations to each other.
   In every astringent bark, the interior white bark (that is,
the part next to the alburnum) contains the largest quantity
of tannin. The proportion of extractive matter is generally
greatest in the middle or coloured part : but the epidermis
ieldom furnishes either tannin or extractive matter.
   The white cortical layers are comparatively most abun
dant in young trees; and hence their barks contain, in the
same weight, a larger proportion of tannin than the barks of
old trees.    In barks of the same kind, but of different ages,
which have been cut at the same season, the similar parts
contain always very nearly the same quantities of astringent
principles ; and the interior layers afford about equal por
tions of tannin.
   An ounce of the white cortical layers of old oak bark,
furnished, by lixiviation and subsequent evaporation, 108
grains of solid matter ; and of this, 72 grains were tannin.
An equal quantity of the white cortical layers of young oak
produced 111 grains of solid matter, of which 77 were pre
cipitated by gelatine.
   An ounce of the interior part of the bark of the Spanish
chestnut gave 89 grains of solid matter, containing 63 grains
of tannin.
   The same quantity of the same part of the bark of the
Leicester willow produced 117 grains, of which 79- were
tannin.
    An ounce of the coloured or external cortical layers from
                                          for 1 799, p. 19 j.
            •
               Philosophical Transactions
                                                                   the

            constituent  Parts of astringent     Vegetables.      299-
the oak, produced 43 grains of solid matter, of which 19
were tannin.
     From the Spanish chestnut, 41 grains, of which 14 were
tannin.
     And, from the Leicester willow, 34 grains, of which 16
were tannin.
     In attempting to ascertain the relative quantities of tannin
in the different entire barks, I selected those specimens
which appeared similar with regard to the proportions of
the external and internal layers, and which were about the
average thickness of the barks commonly used in tanning,
namely, half an inch.
     Of these barks, the oak produced, in the quantity of an
ounce, 61 grains of matter dissolved by water, of which
 29 grains were tannin.
     The Spanish chestnut 53 grains, of which 21 were tan
 nin.
      And the Leicester willow         71   grains,  of which  33 were
 tannin.
      The proportions of these quantities, in respect to the tan
 ning principle, are not very different from those estimated
 in Mr. Biggin's table *.
      The residual substances obtained in the different experi
 ments differed considerably in their properties ; but certain
 portions of them were, in all instances, rendered insoluble
 during the process . of evaporation. The residuum of the
 chestnut bark, as in the instance of the strongest infusion,
  possessed slightly acid properties ; but more than 3-4ths of
 its weight consisted of extractive matter. All the residuums
  in solution, as in the other cases, were precipitated by mu
  riate of tin ; and, after this precipitation, the clear fluids
  acted much more feebly than before on the salts of iron ;
  so that there is great reason for believing that the power of
  astringent infusions to precipitate the salts of iron black, or
  dark coloured, depends partly upon the agency of the ex
  tractive matters they contain, as well as upon that of the
  tanning principle and gallic acid.
       In pursuing the experiments upon the different astringent
  infusions, I examined the infusions of the bark of the elm
   and of the common willow.           These infusions were acted on
  by re-agents in a manner exactly similar to the infusions of
   the other barks : they were precipitated by the acids, by so
   lutions of the alkaline earths and of the carbonated alkalis :
               • Philosophical Transactions  for 1799, p. 163.
                                                                   and

  300            "Experiments   and Observations     on the
  and    they formed, with the caustic alkalis, fluids not pre-
  cipitable by gelatine.
      An ounce of the bark of the elm furnished 13 grains of
  tannin.
      The same quantity of the bark of the common willow
  gave 1 1 grains.
      The residual matter of the bark of the elm contained a
  considerable portion of mucilage, and that of the bark of
 the willow a small quantity of bitter principle. -
     The strongest infusions of the sumachs from SicuV and
 Malaga, agree with the infusions of barks in most o( their
 properties ; but they differ from all the other astringent in-
  fns ions that have been mentioned in one respect, they give
 dense precipitates with the caustic alkalis.         Mr. Proust ha*
  shown that sumach contains abundance of sulphate of lime ;
 ami it is probably to this substance that the peculiar effect
 is owing.
     From an ounce of Sicilian snmach I obtained 1 65 grains.
 of matter soluble in water, and of this matter 78 grains
 were tannin.
     An ounce of Malaga sumach produced 1 56 grains of so
 luble' matter, of which 79 appeared to he tannin.
     The infusion of myrobalans * from the East Indies, dif
 fered from the other astringent infusions chiefly by this cir
cumstance, that it effervesced with the carbonated alkalis ;
ami it gave with them a dense precipitate, that was almost
immediately redissolved. After the tannin had been preci-
pitate'd from it by gelatine, it strongly reddened litmus
paper, and gave a bright black with the solutions of iron,
1 expected      to be able to procure gallic acid, bv distillation,
from the myrobalans : but in this I was mistaken ; they
furnished only a pale yellow fluid, which gave merely a
slight olive tinge to solution of sulphate of iron.
     Skin was speedily tanned in the infusion of the myroba
lans ; and the appearance of the leather was similar to the
appearance of that from galls.
     The strongest infusions of the teas are very similar, in
their agencies upon chemical tests, to the infusions of ca
techu.
     An ounce of Souchong tea produced 48 grains of tannin.
     The same quantity of green tea gave 41 grains.
    Dr. Maton has c&served that very little tannin is found in
cinchona, or in the other barks supposed to be possessed of
    • The myrobalnns used in these experiments are the fruit of the Ter-
minaJia Chebula.— Retz. Oi:. hotan. Fasc. v. p.   ji.
        2                                                     febrifuge

            constituent  Parts of astringent Vcgetalles.          301
febrifuge properties.       My experiments tend to confirm the
observation.       None of the infusions of the strongly bitter
vegetable substances that I have examined give anv precipi
tate to gelatine.       And the infusions of quassia, of gen
tian, of hops, and of camomile, are scarcely affected by
muriate of tin ; bo that they likewise contain very little ex
tractive matter.
     In all substances possessed of the astringent taste, there
is great reason to suspect the presence of tannin ; it even
exists in substances which contain sugar and vegetable
acids.      I have found it in abundance in the juice of sloes;
and my friend Mr. Poole, of Stowey, has detected it in Port
wine.
                      V.   General Observations,
     Mr. Proust has supposed, in his Paper upon Tannin and
 its Species *, that there exist different species of the tanning
 principle, possessed of different properties and different
 powers of acting upon re-agents, but all precipitable by
 gelatine. This opinion is sufficiently conformable to the
  tacts generally known concerning the nature of the sub
  stances which are produced in organized matter; but it
 cannot be considerea as proved, till the tannin in different
  vegetables has been examined in its pure or insulated state.
  In all the vegetable infusions which nave been subjected to
  experiment, it exists in a state of union with other princi
  ples ; and its properties must necessarily be modified by the
  peculiar circumstances of its combination.
      From the experiments that have been detailed it appears
  that the specific agencies of tannin in all the different astrin
  gent infusions are the same.           In every instance it is capa
  ble of entering into union with the acids, alkalis, and earths ;
  and of forming insoluble compounds with gelatine and with
   skin. The infusions of the barks affect the greater number
  of re-agents in a manner similar to the infusion of galls ;
  and that this last fluid is rendered green by the carbonated
   alkalis, evidently depends upon the large proportion of gallic
   acid it contains.    The infusion of sumach owes its charac
   teristic property, of being precipitated by the caustic alkalis,
   to the presence of sulphate of lime ; and that the solutions
   of catechu do not copiously precipitate the carbonated al
   kalis, appears to depend upon their containing tannin in a
              state of union with extractive matter, and uncom-
     ined with gallic acid or earthy salts.
   Eeculiar
                    * Annates dc Cbimic, tome xli. p. 13*.
                                                                    In

 304               Experiments and Observations                  on the
      In making some experiments upon the affinities of the
  tanning principle, I found that all the earths were capable
  of attracting it from the alkalis : and so great is their ten
  dency to combine with                it,
                                    that,             by
                                              means of them, the com
  pound of tannin and gelatine may be decomposed without
 much difficulty        ;for, after pure magnesia had been boiled
 for a   few hours with this substance diffused through water,
it   became of      ared brown colour, and the fluid obtained by
 filtration produced         a distinct precipitate with solution of
 galls. The acids have less affinity for tannin than for gela
 tine and, in cases where compounds of the acids and tan
     ;
 nin are acted on           solution of gelatine, an equilibrium of
                            by
 affinity      established,
              is               in consequence of which,          far the       by
 greatest quantity of tannin            carried down in the insoluble
                                             is
 combination.         The different neutral salts have, compara
 tively, feeble powers of attraction for the tanning principle;
 but that the precipitation they occasion in astringent solu
 tions   is  not simply owing to the circumstance of their uni
 ting to portion of the water which held the vegetable sub
            a
 stances in solution,            evident from many facts, besides
                                  is
 those which have been already stated.                The solutions of
 alum, and of some other salts which are less soluble in
 water than tannin, produce, in many astringent infusions,
 precipitates as copious as the more soluble saline matters                          ;
 and sulphate of liine, and other earthy neutral compounds,
 which are, comparatively speaking, insoluble in water,
 speedily deprive them of their tanning principle.
     From the different facts that have neen stated,                evi
                                                                               it
                                                                               is
dent that tannin may exist                state of combination in dif
                                             in   a
 ferent substances,       in which its presence cannot be made
evident       bymeans of solution of gelatine; and            this case,  in
to detect its existence,               necessary to have recourse to
                                       it    is
 the action of the diluted acids.
     In considering the relations of the different facts that
have been detailed, to the processes of tanning and of lea
ther-making,        it will appear sufficiently evident, that when
skin   is   tanned in astringent infusions that contain, as well
as tannin, extractive matters, portions of these matters
enter, with the tannin, into chemical combination with the
skin.      In no case there any reason to believe that gallic
                             is
acid   is absorbed in this process         and M. Seguin's ingenious
                                                  ;
theory of the agency of this substance in producing the de-
oxygenation of skin, seems supported                       by
                                                     no proofs. Even
in the formation of glue from skin, there                   no evidence
                                                                     is
which ought to induce us to suppose that                loses   portion
                                                                it             a
of oxygen and the effect appears to be owing merely to
               j
                                                                                    the

         tonstituent Parts   of astringent   Vegetables.   303
the separation of the gelatine, from the small quantity of
 albumen with which it was combined in the organized form,
 by the solvent powers of water.
    The different qualities of leather made with the same
kind of skin, seem to depend very much upon the different
quantities of extractive matter it contains.        The leather
obtained by means of infusion of galls is generally found
harder, and more liable to crack, than the leather obtained
from the infusions of barks ; and, in all cases, it contains
a much larger proportion of tannin, and a smaller propor
 tion of extractive matter.
    When skin is very slowly tanned in weak solutions of
the barks or of catechu, it combines with a considera
ble proportion of extractive matter; and, in these cases,
though the increase of weight of the skin is comparatively
small, yet it is rendered perfectly insoluble in water; and
is found soft, and at the same time strong.
    The saturated astringent infusions of barks contain much
less extractive matter, in proportion to their tannin, than
the weak infusions ; and, when skin is quickly tanned in
them, common experience shows that it produces leather
less durable than the leather slowly formed.
    Besides, in the case of quick tanning by means of infu
sions of barks, a quantity of vegetable extractive matter is
 lost to the manufacturer, which might have been made to
enter into the composition of his leather.       These observa
 tions show that there is some foundation for the vulgar
opinion of workmen concerning what is technically called
the feeding of leather in the slow method of tanning ; and,
though the processes of the art may in some cases fee pro
tracted for an unnecessary      length of time, yet in general
they appear to have arrived, in consequence of repeated
practical experiments, at a degree of perfection which can
not be very far extended by means of any elucidations of
theory that have as yet been made known.
    On the first view it appears singular that, in those cases
of tanning where extractive matter forms a certain portion
of ^he leather, the increase of weight is less than when the
skin is combined with pure tannin ; but the fact is easily
accounted for, when we consider that the attraction of skin
for tannin must be probably weakened by its union with
extractive matter; and, whether we suppose that the tannin
and extractive matter enter together into combination with
the matter of skin, or unite with separate portions of       it,
still, in either case, the primary attraction of tannin for skin
must be, to certain extent, diminished.
            a
                                                             In

304      On the constituent Parts     of astringent   Vegetables.
     In examining astringent vegetables in relation to their
powers of tanning skin, it is necessary to take into account,
not only the quantity they contain of the substance preci-
pitable by gelatine, but likewise the quantity and the na
ture of the extractive matter; and, in cases of comparison,
it is essential to employ infusions of the same degree of con
centration.
     It is evident from the experiments detailed in the third
section, that of all the astringent substances which have
been as yet examined, catechu is that which contains the
largest proportion of tannin ; and in supposing, according
 to the common estimation, that from four to five pounds of
common oak bark are required to produce one pound of
leather, it appears, from the various synthetical experi
ments, that about half a pound of catechu would answer
the same pirpose*.
     Also, allowing for the difference in the composition of
the different kinds of leather, it appears, from the general
detail of facts, that one pound ot catechu, for the common
uses of the tanner, would be nearly equal in value to                  i\
^pounds of galls, to 7i pounds of the bark of the Leicester
willow, to 1 1 pounds of the hark of tire Spanish chestnut,
to 5 6 pounds of the bark of the elm, to 21 pounds of the
bark of the common willow, and to 3 pounds of sumach.
     Various menstruums have been proposed for the purpose
of expediting and improving the process of tanning, and,
amongst them, lime water and the solutions of pearl-ash :
 but, as these two substances form compounds with tannin
 wliich are not decomposable by gelatine, it follows that
 their effects must be highly pernicious ; and there is very
 little reason to suppose that any bodies will be found which,
 at the same time that they increase the solubility of tannin
 in water, will not likewise diminish its attraction for
 skin.
                                 t
     • This estimation
                       arrees rcrv well with the experiments lately made
bj Mr. Purvis upon the tunning powers of Bombay catechu in die pro
cesses, of manufacture, and which he has permitted me to mention.    Mr.
 Purkis fouuci, by the results of differed accurate experiments, that one
 pound of catechu was equivalent to seven or eight of oak bark.
                                                          LIV.    Letter

                              [   305     ]
LlV.      Letter from J. Hume, Esq. qn the Formation of
     Nitrous Ettiert by Means of Nit rule of Mercury, unci on
     other Discoveries supposed to be modern.
     dear sir,           To   Mr. Tilloch.
X* rom reading a paper which appeared in a late number of
the Philosophical Magazine, I am induced to conclude
that the process for obtaining nitrous ether, by means of
nitrate of mercury and alcohol, published above forty years
ago, is not so generally known as it deserves ; it           is,
                                                              there
fore, but fair, in order to do justice to its author, to take
the most effectual method to assert the priority,           by
                                                           referring
to the work itself; and that      may more certainly gain your
                                  I
concurrence to give an early insertion to this communica
tion,  I shall be as brief as possible.
 I    know not the exact period when the work to which                     I
allude was published, as there          no date affixed
                                        is                   but as
                                                             ;
the author speaks of several of his contemporaries, particu
larly of the celebrated anatomist Cheselden,            must have
                                                       it
been written at least forty years ago — the title           " Mis
                                                            is
cellanea vere utilia."
    From some particular expressions of the author                am
inclined to believe that, without his being aware of               it, I
                                                                   he
was in possession of the fulminating mercury           ;for his at
tention seems to have been chiefly absorbed in the forma
tion of the ether, or, as he terms        it   "
                                               spirit prodigiously
                                                   a
volatile," and, consequently was not so much,                 at all,
                                                             if
applied to investigate the powder or " milky
                                                     "
                                                       appearance
in  the mixed fluids, which has since been proved to be the
most important, or rather wonderful, part of the produce.
 I    suspect, were we industrious enough to search for
them, that many of what arc stated to be the modern dis
coveries were well known to, and probably described by,
our ancestors.     An instance of this, amongst others, has
lately  occurred  to me, viz.     chemical lamp, in all respects
                                  a
similar to Argand's, but with two concentric wicks                the
                                                                    ;
invention of this   issaid to be of very modern date, and                  is
ascribed to Webster.      I  have now in my possession          lamp
                                                                   a
of this description, made more than twelve years ago, for
it was then bought       by
                          an eminent brass-founder in Hart-
•treet, Covent-garden,      as old metal.      From its magni
tude   itmust have been employed in         light-house.
                                               a                    It
                                                                  has
two concentric wicks attached to         single rack, which arc
                                          a
   Vol. XVII. No. 68.                 U                  .   moved

306                A   Method   of affording Relief
moved by a small pinion, in the ordinary way; the diame
ter of the interior wick is 0*9 of an inch ; the other mea
sures 3 inches, and the whole seems to be made of brass.
    Long Acre,             I remain, dear Sir,
  Jan. 14 1804..                 With much esteem, yours,
                                                       J. Hume.
LV. A     Method of affording Relief to Persons injured by
    Lightning.       Communicated in a Letter from Mr. Isaiah
    Gilbert to the Rev. Mr. Steele*.
.Having      heard by common report that the house of Mr.
Martin, of Augusta,       was struck with lightning on the night
of the 25th of June        1803 ; and that he and his wife were
much injured by the shock ; and that by some means or other
they were relieved, but could not learn how, I sent to
them, requesting them to write to me a statement of the
facts which attended that event with as much precision as
possible.     In due time I received a letter from Mr. Gilbert,
who is father-in-law to Mr. Martin, in which he wrote as
follows :—
    " On the night of the 25th of June the house of Mr.
Wm. Martin was struck with lightning at the north ridge.
It shivered the stud which stood directly under the ridge,
rent the boards at the gable-end, entered the room where
Mr- Martin and his wife were asleep, and dashed a looking-
glass to pieces which hung at the foot of the bed.           The
lightning passed from where the looking-glass hung in a
direction to the axis. Mrs. Martin was affected across her
loins, and particularly her right arm ; the other arm also
was affected, but in a less degree.       Mr. Martin was affected
in his head and shoulders : they were both asleep. A child
which lay on the back side of the bed, it is supposed, was
awakened by the thunder, and, being greatly frightened,
cried out.       Tliis awakened Mrs. Martin, and she found
herself in a situation in which she was unable to move her
limbs ; but after' two or three exertions she rolled herself
off the bed, and then discovered the curtain over her head
to be on fire. Before she got off the bed she discovered
that her husband was speechless and senseless.        When she
had got off the bed to the floor, and the child also, she
crawled to the foreside of the bed. Here, on the floor,
                    * From the New York  Advertiser.
                                                              the

                         to Persons injured by              Lightning.              307
 "the  water stood a small depth, being driven in at the dopr :
  upon putting her right hand, which was most affected,
  into the water, she felt immediate relief.       Her arm and
 hand remained weak j but the insensibility and numbness
 were immediately taken away.          By sonic extraordinary
 effort she now dragged her husband off the bed to the floor,
 but how she did this she cannot relate. — and wonderful
 indeed it        is,
                for she had not strength to stand upon her
 feet.   She had called her two little sons, who slept in the
 chamber, and, having experienced relief from putting her
 hand into the water, as mentioned above, she ordered the
 oldest to fetch     bucket of water and to pour
                         a                                 on his             it
 father, which he did. This he repeated until Mr. Martin
 began to move, and raised himself on his hands and knees.
The little boy then came in with the fifth bucket of water,
which his mother ordered him to pour on his father's head.
This he did, and then Mr. Martin got up and stood upon
 his feet, and, with wildness in his countenance, cried out,
   What are you doing         Mrs. Martin informed him they
'                                 '
                                 f
were struck with lightning, and showed how the bed-clothes
were burnt': he then became composed.             He remained,
however, in great pain in his head, neck, and shoulders,
which continued for several days, but           degrees went off. by
    "   Itappears that the lightning, after going in the                            di
rection mentioned above, took          contrary course, being
                                                a
attracted, as       it   is
                     supposed              by
                                      carpenter's iron square,
                                                a
which hung over chest with drawers, standing on the side
                          a
of the room opposite to the bed         fell from the square on
                                                :   it
the chest and gouged out        piece near the bottom.
                                       a                    In                          a
drawer of the chest were some pewter spoons, on each of
which     a drop was melted, as      touched with
                                            if          hot iron.         a
In the same manner were marked two or three plates which
stood on      shelf   the chest.
                          by
    "
              a
       These, Sir, are the particulars of that affecting scene,
as nearly as  I can recollect them, but incorrectly written.
They are submitted to your perusal and for your use, as
•you    think proper."
 LVI. Extracts from the Third Volume                               of   tlie Analyses
                  qfM. Klaproth.
                              [Continued from       p.   14-3.]
                    Analysis      of   Fossil Elastic Resin.
-Mineral            elastic resin extracted from the lead ore of
Odin near Castletown in Derbyshire,            or the fossil caout-
                                   U       2                 chouc,

»08            Extracts from   the third Volume   of
chouc, possesses a remarkable property, from Which if
derives its name, and which distinguishes it in an eminent
degree from all other combustible minerals.        Messrs. Hat-
chett and Scherer have described fifteen varieties of it ; the
first of which are still impregnated in part with fluid oil of
petroleum, and the latter have a resemblance to asphaltum,
completely hard and brittle, while the intermediate varieties
possess more or less the elastic property.        We must still
distinguish a new kind, found a few years ago in a small
river situated near that mine, which differs from the pre
ceding by a more spongy elasticity, and by other proper
ties.    It approaches to the nature of cork, and Mr.
Hatchett found five varieties of it.
  •
    1st, The fossil elastic resin, in compact fragments,
greenish brown olive, which, when looked through towards
the light, is transparent, and appears of a bright red hya
cinth colour.     This fossil is soft, exceedingly elastic, and
adheres to the fingers.
    2d, Dark brown fossil elastic resin, which has for gangue
crvstals of sparry gray swinestone.
    3d, Yellow ana red bright hyacinth, inclosed in small
masses in groups of sparry calcareous fluor.
    4th, Dull reddish brown, of a spongy, or cork -like tex
ture, containing blackish gray nuclei of impure caout
chouc. •
    The caoutchouc subjected to experiment by M. Klaproth
 wad the first variety of this new species.     This fossil is one
 of those bodies    the analysis of  which   can be effected only
 in the dry way ;    and, consequently,   the  immediate princi
ples of it cannot be extracted.
    Erp. 1. Fossil caoutchouc resists, in general, the ac
 tion of all fluid solvents. The one which appears to have
 any is recti lied oil of petroleum,        fragments of fossil
 caoutchouc, immersed in this oil, were at the end of some
 days swelled up a little and more transparent.          The oil,
 which was colourless, had acquired a bright yellow colour.
    The red vapours of fuming nitric acid, poured over an
 other part of caoutchouc, heated in a sand bath, soon gave
 place to white vapours of nitric acid, which were disen
 gaged till it was almost entirely evaporated ; which proves
 that there was no reciprocal action between the fosstl and
 the acid. The resin, when washed, showed no sensible
 mark of alteration.
    The action of alkalies is as ineffectual as that of acids.
 Sixteen parts of concentrated solution of potash, boiled for
 siime time with one part of this elastic resin till it almost
                                                         acquired

                the Analyses   of M. Klaproth.             309
acquired a thick consistence, produced in it no alteration.
It retained the same characters of elasticity, consistence,
and colour.
    Exp. II. M. Klaproth kindled one part of clastic resin;
and made it burn till it dissolved into black drops.    In this
state the fossil had not entirely lost its elasticity.  It was
still of a pitchy and clammy nature, and could be drawn         .
out into threads between the fingers. This imperfect com
bustion, however, rendered it soluble in oil*, and particu
larly in that of petroleum, to which it communicated a
black colour.
    Exp. III. Two hundred grains of pure elastic resin,
placed on a sand bath in a small glass retort, communi
cating with a pneumatic mercurial apparatus, gave by di
stillation, which required a pretty strong and well-main
tained fire, the following products :
    1st, Eighty-four cubic inches of gas, which had a fetid
odour of garlic.      This gas, agitated in water, lost eight
cubic inches of carbonic acid, which precipitated lime-wa
ter, and the remaining 76 cubic inches of carbonated hy
 drogen ga3 burned with a brilliant flame.
    2d, One hundred eighty-six grains of a brown fluid oil
of a disagreeable odour.
    3d, Three grains only of a slightly acidulous water : the
 small quantity of this acid did not permit M. Klaproth to
examine the nature of it.
   4 th, The porous carbonaceous residuum, which had a
somewhat metallic splendour, weighed 24 grains.
    5th, When calcined in a capsule, it left 13 grains of
 ceddish brown ashes, which, when moistened with a little
water, gave a red tint to blue turnsole paper, which in all
probability was owing to the caustic lime it contained.
 When put to digest in muriatic acid there remained
4^ grains of a light gray earth, mixed with a little char
coal, which, by calcination, was reduced to three grains
of pure silex. » The sum total of the charcoal consumed,
amounted, therefore, to 12£ grains.
   6th, The muriatic solution, concentrated by evaporation,
and edulcorated with alcohol, deposited a grain of crystal
lized sulphate of lime.    When diluted with a larger quan
tity  of water, it gave by solution of succinate of ammonia,
a reddish precipitate, which, by calcination, was reduced
to 1^ oxide of iron. The remaining solution, neutralized by
that of caustic ammonia, deposited by the addition of car
bonate of ammonia half a grain of alumine, and 7i grains
of carbonate of lime, equivalent to 4 grains of caustic lime.
                             U 3                     A hundred

310           Extracts from     the third  Volume   of
    A hundred parts of elastic resin, analyzed     in the dry way,
were therefore decomposed into :
           Carbonated hydrogen -            -     38 cubic inches
           Carbonic acid             -      U       4 do.
           Bituminous oil            -      -      73 grains.
           Acidulous phlegm          -      -        1-50
           Charcoal                  -      -       6- 25
           Lime                      -      -       2
           Silex                     -      -        1-50
           Oxide of iron             -      -       075
           Sulphate of lime          -      -       0-50
           Alumine                   -      -       025
of which, however,     the five last only are immediate prin
ciples of the fossil caoutchouc, while the other five exhibit
products of the natural combination of the carbon, hydro
gen, and oxygen contained in this fossil, but altered by
the fire.
    Nothing is found in the results of this analysis which can
throw any light on the explanation of the elastic property
possessed by this singular fossil : we must, therefore, ad
here to the opinion of Mr. Hatchett, who ascribes it to
small moleculae of air, interposed in the pores of the resin,
accumulated during its formation in a manner still un
known, and which communicates to its whole mass an
elastic and spongy consistence.
               Analysis of Peat Earth (tourbe).
    Peat earth, formerly denoted by the name of ligneous
earth, bituminous earth, is dug up in great abundance in
the county of Mansfield, and in the circle of Saal, where
it is found in considerable strata, almost always at a little
depth below the vegetable earth.        It has a blackish colour,
and an earthy fracture.       It communicates a little tint to
bodies on which it is rubbed. It is dull, easily pulverised,
and in the air falls almost into dust.         It is a very useful
 combustible, which is prepared by softening it in water,
moulding it like bricks in wooden moulds, and then leaving
it to dry in the air.
    Its appearance and texture prove that it has originally
 formed the fibrous part of a large quantity of wood, depo
 sited by water, which has become altered in its immediate
principles, but which has not entirely lost its structure.
    The peat earth employed in the following analysis was
 dug up in the royal bailiwick of Schraplace.
    Exp. I, Two hundred grains of this fossil, put into a
                                                              glass

                   the Analyses  of M. Klaproth.             Sll
  glass retort brought to a red heat, and which communi
  cated with a mercurial apparatus, gave for products :
      1st, One hundred thirty-five cubic inches of elastic fluid
  (allowance being made for the air contained in the retort
  and the tube   of communication),    composed of 17    of car
  bonic    acid gas absorbed   by lime water, and 118    of car
  bonated hydrogen gas.
     2d, Twenty-four grains of acidulous water.          As the
 fossil when boiled in water communicates to it no aci
 dity, this acidulous phlegm is therefore a product of the
  distillation, and probably composed of pyroligneous acid
  (empyreumatic acetous acid).
     3d, Sixty grains of a brown, clear, fixed oil, which had
 a taste only slightly empyreumatic, and no resemblance to
 bituminous oils.
     4th, The carbonaceous residuum taken from the retort
 weighed 77-j. grains.     When burnt in a capsule they were
 reduced to 37 grains of light brown ashes, mixed with grains
of sand : the charcoal had consequently lost 40£ grains.
     5th, Water boiled over the ashes, and then filtered, gave
 a slight tint of red to blue turnsole paper: it left by evapo
 ration sulphate of lime, which, when roasted, weighed 5
 grains.     A small quantity of free caustic lime had restored
 the blue colour of the red turnsole paper.
     6th, The lixiviated ashes being dissolved in nitro-muri-
 atic acid, the insoluble sandy residuum weighed 23 grains.
     7 th, The caustic solution of ammonia produced in it a
light brown deposit, from which were extracted by caustic
 alkalies, two grains of the oxide of iron and one grain of
alumine.
     8th, The rest of the solution, by carbonate of potash,
gave carbonate of lime, which by calcination was reduced
 to four grains of pure lime.
    Exp. II. Alcohol, put to digest on peat earth, extracted
 from it a reddish brown tincture, which by evaporation
was thickened into a reddish dark brown extract, the taste
 of which was very bitter, without being disagreeable, and
 approached near to that of an extract irom the common
 kinds of cinchona.      It dissolved only imperfecly in water,
which it rendered turbid.
    Exp. III. Four ounces of peat earth, boiled at three
different times with water, gave a clear reddish brown de
coction, in no manner either acid or alkaline.      Evaporated
in a gentle heat it left a dry pulverulent extract, of a
walnut colour, weighing 145 grains, having the same taste,
but less bitter than the preceding.       A litUe water imme-
                                  U4                     diately

31-2     Extracts from         the Analyses    of M. Klaproth.
diately dissolved it.         The liquor was clear and of a dar!;
brown colour, but it suffered to be precipitated at the same
time a yellowir-h white deposit, composed of sulphate of
lime, which when dried weighed 39 grains.
   M. Klaproth tried to effect several combinations with the
solution of this extract.
    1st, It remained clear, and experienced              no change of
colour when mixed with solutions of animal glue, alkaline
salts, alum, nitrate of lime, sulphate of copper, and sul
phate of iron recently crystallized.
    2d, But it was decomposed by barytes water. Solutions
of muriate of barytes and zinc, of nitrate of silver and of
mercury, of acetite of lead, of hyper-oxidated muriate of
iron, &c. produced in it flaky deposits of a light brown
wood colour; and the supernatant liquor became almost
always colourless.
    Exp. IV. The combustible part of peat seemed to dis
solve almost entirely when put to digest in a highly con
centrated alkaline ley.           When diluted with from 12 to
Jfi parts of water and filtered, the water still retained a
dark brown colour, inclining to black.                 When saturated
with the sulphuric or nitric acid, it becomes brightened,
and assumes a reddish brown colour.                  It precipitates by
heat a voluminous brown deposit, which, when collected
by the filter and washed, dries by heat into large, black,
very brilliant grains, and which, when afterwards roasted
in a capsule, leaves yellow ashes.
    Exp. V. Two ounces of oil, obtained by the distillation
of a larger quantity of peat earth, rectified in a retort with
a gentle'heat, in a sand bath, and of which 1| ounce was
distilled, left a blackish gray residuum, which, on cooling,
acquired the consistence of wax. The distilled oil was of
a honey yellow colour, and became fixed in foliated cry
stals. The most fluid of the oily part of these crystals,
imbibed by blotting paper, over which they had been
spread, left them deposited there in scales or small leaves,
easv to be separated, brilliant, and of a light brown colour.
   When this oil is heated on a moderate charcoal (Ire, un
til the aqueous moisture is in a great measure evaporated,
it acquires, by cooling, the consistence of soft cerat.                In
this state it has a great resemblance to the maltha, or dre-
des-saes   of Siberia*.
                                                                      Oil
   • The cire-tUs-iats,    or maliba, is brought from the lake Baikal, on
the banks of which it is extracted, near Bargusin.      M Klaproth ob
serves, that the classification of this natural wax among the bituminous
                                                               substances

                            Analysis of the Human Teeth.                             813
  Oil of         peat dissolves           in     in alcohol, by means
                                                abundance
of digestion.             This solution, which is clear, becomes fixed
by cooling.              Maltha with alcohol exhibits the same phe
nomena.
LVII.  Analysis of the Human Teeth. By W. H. Pepys
  jun. Esq. P.R.I., Member of the Askesian and British
   Mineratogical Societies *,
Mr       .   Charles Hatch ett, in                      his valuable paper on shell
and bone, (Philosophical Transactions for 1799,) enume
rated the several substances which enter into the composi
tion of the human teeth : it is to be regretted that the na
ture of his subject did not render it necessary for him to
ascertain the proportions in which they are respectively
found, as it could not have failed to have proved highly
useful, and his known accuracy would have precluded the
necessity of any other person undertaking such a labour.
Several good analyses of bone have been published, but                                     I
believe no accurate analysis of the teeth has yet been of
fered.
    Bone, it has bden observed, when exposed to the action
of acid menstrua, becomes dissolved ; that is to say, the
solid or constituent substance of them is abstracted, and a
gelatinous matter is left of the form of the original bone.
    Nitric, muriatic, and acetic acids are capable of pro
ducing this change, which is accompanied with a liberation
of an aeriform fluid, that precipitates lime in lime water,
changes vegetable blues rea, and by its gravity is known
to be carbonic acid gas.     These acid solutions yield a co
pious precipitate with pure ammonia, which is again solu
ble in either of the acids.    After the precipitation by pure
ammonia, the solution of the carbonate of ammonia will
still produce a new precipitate.
   The precipitate of the first solution by pure ammonia,
as noticed above, is soluble again in the acids before men-
substances appears to him improper in various respects.       Might not
maltha be the product also of the distillation of a similar kind of turf
effected by nature ?   As that which forms the subject of die preceding
analysis can no longer be classed among the bituminous fossils, both on
account of its chemical principles and of its mineralogical^characters,
its old definition of bituminous ligneous earth can no longer be applied
to.it.
  * From              recent interesting                       The Natural History   of   tbc
                a                               publication,
Buman        Teeth,    by   Josef   h   Fox."
                                                                                tioned;

    314             Analysis oftlw Human Teeth.
   tioned  : these solutions yield, with a solution  of acetite of
   lead,  a copious precipitate, proving the presence of phos
   phoric acid.
      The precipitate obtained by the carbonate of ammonia is
   also soluble in either of the above acids, but with efferves
   cence ; and these solutions are not precipitated by acetite
   of lead j they fall, however, with oxalate of ammonia, car
  bonate of ammonia, or any precipitant of lime.
      The great solubility of the phosphate of lime, in even the
   weakest of the acids, is very extraordinary.     Phosphate of
  lime mechanically suspended in water is speedily and com
  pletely dissolved by passing a copious stream of carbonic
   acid gas through it.
                                     I
      With these iacts before me, have ventured to examine
  the several specimens of the human teeth ; as the enamel,
  the bone, or roots, the teeth *of adults, and the shedding
  teeth of children.
      Previous to an account of the analysis it may not be un
  interesting to notice the action of some of the articles of the
 materia ckemica on the teeth.
     Sulphuric acid of the specific gravity 1*83 appears at first
 to have no action ; in the course of an hour small bubbles
 are perceived, the roots become blackened, and in twelve
 hours the enamelled part bursts, cracks, and separates, ac-*
 companied with an evident formation of selenite, by the
 action of the acid on the lime, which enters into the com
 position of the teeth.
     Nitric and muriatic acids of the specific gravity of 1'IS
 act instantly on the tooth, accompanied with an evolution
 of a quantity of small air-bubbles from the whole of the sur
 face: about eight time's their weight of these acids are suffi
 cient for the solution of the solidifying principles of the
 teeth. The mass left undissolved has nearly the original
form of the tooth, is flexible, semitransparent, and easily
divided bv the nail.
     The dilute acetous acid (distilled vinegar) has a very tri
fling action, but, when concentrated, acts both on the phos
phate and carbonate of lime.
     Boiling nitric acid acts strongly on a tooth with the evo
lution of carbonic acid and a considerable quantity of azotic
gas.     The gelatine and solid substance are dissolved as the
surfaces present themselves; but the operation being stopped
at any part of the process, the residuum is firm and hard,
but reduced in size proportioned to the time the tooth has
been acted upon.
                                                       Analysis

                   Analysis of the Human Teeth.              315
                     Analysis of the Enamel.
    One hundred grains of the enamel of human teeth, care
fully rasped, were placed in 600 grains of nitric acid of the
specific gravity 1*12. Slight effervescence ensued, and after
twelve hours 200 grains more of the acid were added.         Al
lowing   for  the loss by evaporation  in a corresponding vessel,
after thirty-six hours it was found to have lost four grains
and a half.
    It was then diluted with four ounces of distilled water,
precipitated by pure ammonia, and then filtered.
    The precipitate obtained being dried in a water-bath at
fil 2° weighed 102 grains. It was then ignited, after which
it was found to weigh 78 grams.
    The filtered solution was then precipitated by carbonate
of ammonia in solution, and filtered.
    The separated precipitate, being dried in a heat of 212°
weighed six grains.       Enamel, then, consists of
            Phosphate of lime          -       -     78
            Carbonate of lime          -       -      6
                                                     84
            Water of composition,     and loss    -  16
                                                    100
    A loss of 1 6 grains here takes place, which is easily ac
counted for, from the impossibility of directly ascertaining
the state of dryness in which the ingredients existed origi
nally in the enamel ; for we have seen that, by drying the
phosphate of lime in a heat of 212°, (after which it had the
appearance of being as dry as possible,) it yet contained so
much moisture as to yield a gain of eight grains in the
analysis.
    On the other hand, when ignited its state is driven to
 the opposite extreme, and there is a loss of 1 6 grains.      It
is impossible, however, that the materials could exist in the
 teeth, in a state of dryness to be compared with that pro
duced by exposing them to such a high temperature. And
it appears but reasonable to conclude, that the real quantity
of moisture lies nearer to that given by the heat of 212*
than to that given by ignition, and consequently that the
 16 grains lost by exposure to such a high temperature were
chiefly water.
                                                           Bone,

318              Analysis of the Human Teeth.
   Bone;, or roots  of teeth, yielded by analysis in 1 00 grains.
            Phosphate of lime           -       -     58
            Carbonate of lime                           4
            Gelatine                                  as
                                                      90
            Water of composition, and loss        -   10
                                                    100
   The   teeth of adults yielded on analysis in 100 grains,
            Phosphate of lime                         64
            Carbonate of lime                           6
            Gelatine       -                          SO
                                                      90
            Water of composition,      and loss   -    10
                                                    10O
            Specific gravity of adults' teeth 2'2727-
   The shedding or primary teeth of children, yielded on
analysis in 10O grains*,
            Phosphate of lime           -             62
            Carbonate of lime                           6
            Gelatine        -     -        -    -     20
                                                      88
            Water of composition,      and loss   -    12
                                          •          JOO
            Specific gravity  of children's  teeth 2*0833.
   In   these analyses, as in the former, the phosphate of
lime was also exposed to a red heat, and consequently was
reduced to a greater degree of dryness than that in which
it existed  in the tooth.
   In all of them    the carbonate   of lime was dried in   a heat
of 212°, (above which it would have been liable to decom
position), and the gelatine of the three last in the same
temperature.
                                                       LVIII.  On

                            [  317    ]
    LVIII.    On Sharks.     By  William Tatham, Ej£.
      sib,               To   Mr. Tilloch.
observing in a shop window a print representing an ac
cident which happened from the voracity of a shark in the
harbour of Havannah, in the island of Cuba; and having
frequently noticed the propensity of the vulgar to swallow
extraordinary instances as matters of general existence (be
lieving all the western hemisphere to be overrun with mon
sters and savages, because geographers have, in some in
stances, thought fit to ornament their productions with
Indians, bears, and snakes, with hideous creatures and
wild ferocity) ; it may not be unpleasant to communicate
to you a fact or two, within my own knowledge, touching
the scent: of action in this print, which may not happen to
be readily obtained from any other quarter.
    In the year 1793 I was on board the Philadelphia ship
 Carolina, which was several weeks at anchor in the very
spot which this print exhibits ; and I have been at the bot
 tom in the place where this accident happened : it is com
 posed of a blue or greenish clay, indented with small holes
 as if made with the fingers, which I am inclined to think
 is the work of small fishes, wherewith the harbour abounds ;
 and the clay is covered with a thin film, or skin, not unlike
 brown paper. The w atei (probably from the shade of the
 savannas adjoining) has a greenish appearance,      and is re
 plete with a small species of worm, or maggot, similar to the
 skippers in rotten cheese.     I understood, however, that it is
 not this but another species of worm which renders it ne
 cessary to copper the bottoms of the ships ; nor do the Spa
 niards ascribe to them any species of depredation, although
 the surface of the harbour at some times exhibits them as
 a kind of cream on the bason's contents.      This subject may
  nevertheless merit the investigation of ship owners ; and
 it may also deserve consideration how far chemical know
 ledge may be directed to the discovery of some cheap sub
 stitute for copper, which may be more generally applied to
 ships in the merchant service, thereby economizing the con
 sumption of a material which constitutes the basis of a con
 siderable portion ef British manufacture and commerce.
     I beg leave to state, in regard to the case of the shark,
 that it is by no means my intention to encourage further
  experiments at the bottom of the harbour of the Havannah :
  on the contrary, I observed the Spaniards frequently bathing
 near the shores, but never in the deep water, where the crew
                                                               of

    318                       On Vegetation.
  of   the Carolina were accustomed to jump overboard,                  t
  merely state this fact, to distinguish a casual from an un
  avoidable case, and to show that all dangers are not death,
  no more than it should be conceived necessary that travel
  lers should be always killed in the Sierra Movena, or in
  Cumberland Mountain in America, because such accidents
  have been frequent antecedent to the period when civiliza
  tion conquered the wilderness.
     Not being acquainted with the natural history of fishes,
  I  can only merely state another fact concerning sharks.
  In the harbour of Charleston, in South Carolina, I was
 astonished to see a boy fall from a ship's bowsprit into the
 water, without injury, where two or three sharks were play
 ing about the ship a few minutes before ; but I was still
 more so, at seeing two sharks playing about in the surf
 where a parcel of children were bathing in shallow water,
 who seemed to be noways concerned for their safety.                 On
 expressing my anxiety, and warning the children of their
 apparent danger, some of the inhabitants who stood on the
 beach laughed, and assured me that those two sharks were
 old playmates of the children, who were well acquainted
 with them ; for that they had long frequented the place,
 *nd were not of a ravenous species 5 ana that if one of the
 dangerous kind came in the way I should soon see the chil
 dren scamper, as they were perfectly acquainted with the
 difference between the two.         If you deem these facts worth
 public notice, vou are at liberty to publish them, on the
 authority of, Sir, your humble servant,
 December   3, 180}.                            WILLIAM TATHAM.
 LIX.     On Vegetation; extracted from          C. Hassenfratz       »
    Paper on that Subject. By G. .1.         Wright,        Esq.
      sin,                 To  Mr. Tillach.
 J.  he fragment      I enclose   for your insertion      is extracted
from a    memoir of Cit. Hassenfratz on vegetation*,            a paper
of some import,        and  frequently quoted by philosophical
men, though not, that I have been able to find, inserted in
any English publication.         Imagining the subject of experi
ment ot so respectable      a  philosopher would not be regarded
as superfluous by your      readers,   I have in my leisure hours
(and owing     to the  want   of original matter, through the te-
                * Annates de Cbimie,  tome xiii. and xiv.
                                                             diousness

                         On Vegetation.                     31f>
diousness   of experiments, and    the pressure of other avoca
tions)  endeavoured    to put the principal topics of the paper
alluded to in  as concise a method as may he ; a species of
relaxation which, if you approve of, I may he induced to
repeat.    The frequent similar labours of the enlightened
character I quote form so respectable a precedent towards
the like intent, that I am prone to trust the present will
not be regarded by you as less valuable for its want of ori
ginality on my part, inasmuch as the desire of diffusing
information forms the basis of my motives for forwarding
it ; an object not better to be obtained than will be accom
plished by an insertion in your valuable publication, a work
not less to be cherished as a national acquisition than the
plan and perusal of it must be gratifying to the public, and
among others to your obliged servant,
  Kenningtot,                                   G. J. WRIGHT.
Jan. 14, 1804.
    The substances which bear the greatest proportion, as
the constituent parts of plants (the ashes composing but a
fractional part) are water, carbon, hydroden, and oxygen,
 of which the proportions are found to vary in different ve
getables.
    Van Helmont's experiment on the growth of a willow,
which increased fiolb. in weight without diminution on the
 part of the earth in which it vegetated, is well known, as is
 also that of Duhamel, who observed the growth of an oak,
in water alone, for several years successively. Add to these
 the numerous experiments of M. Tillet, who sowed grains
 of corn in various mixtures of sand, pounded glass, earths,
 &c. without being able to distinguish between the grains
 so produced, and those sown in the usual way ; all which
 experiments appear to set forth air and water as being the
 matters essential to the nutrition of plants, and seem at the
 same time to suppose the effect of manures to be confined
 solely to the retention of the humidity necessary to vegeta
 tion, the production of a slight degree of heat for the
 easier developement of the young plant, and the more per
 fect division of the soil for the readier extension of the
radical fibres.
    That the increase of carbon in vegetables should be de
 rived from the mere media air and water, appears indeed
 paradoxical ; but Tillet's experiments to ascertain the fact
 are inconclusive, being conducted in perforated pots buried
 in the ground. The same processes, repeated by Hassen-
 fratz, in insulated and unperforated vessels (that is to say,
            2                                             under

 320                       £)n Vegetation*
Under such circumstances as totally precluded any contact
with vegetable earth) showed that plants vegetating in the
above-mentioned mixtures* perished after a while, and in
no instance survived a sufficient length of time to perfect the
 parts of fructification. Infact, bulbs* cresses, and other plants,
which vegetate in water only, contain, after their growthy-
 rather less than the mean quantity of carbon that the origi
nal bulbs or seeds contained before their developement ; and
whatever carbon is contained in the leaves and Jjranches
of such plants* it has been furnished and carried up into them
by the water as a vehicle ; yet allowing such plants only to
unfold their flowers, and no further.          This is analogoui
to what we observe in the animal kingdom, as in eggs,
which contain within them a portion of nourishment ade
quate to the life and growth of the embryo chick to a cer
 tain degree of perfection, beyond which it cannot exist or
 increase without <hc administration of newly applied nutri*
 ment.     In like manner, every seed contains within itself a
certain portion of the carbonic principle, which, by the sole
aid of water, suffices to develop the young plant to a certain
point, beyond which it cannot increase without the con
currence of fresh carbon.
    The attraction of the roots easily accounts for the in
crease of water in plants ; and the decomposition of a part
of the water deposited within them, alike explains the in
crease of the hvdrogen.       The augmentation of their carbon
has been endeavoured to be accounted for by some philo
sophers as arising from the decomposition of the carbonic
acid in the air : an opinion founded on the fact that oxygen
is disengaged from plants in the act of vegetation ; and this
in greater proportion when watered with water impregnated
with carbonic acid gas. However this may be, the quan
tity of residuary carbon is not increased by the process
mentioned ; for plants reared in aerated water, afford on
analysis no more carbon than if otherwise circumstanced.
So also the supposition of the oxygen disengaged in vege
tation being derived from carbonic acid decomposed Dy
the plant is erroneous ; for air long confined, night and
clay, over plants, undergoes no change either in volume or
in goodness. And this consequence ought naturally to
follow from the experiments of Ingenhouz, which show
that whilst vegetables are under the influence of solar light,
they give out oxygen ; but, when deprived of that influence,
they take up the before disengaged oxygen, combine with
it a portion of their carbon, ana give off the carbonic acid
resulting from their union : and with respect to the disen-
                                                         gageineat

                         Oft Vegetation.                     321
             of oxygen, during the presence of the light, and
 Sgement
    e change of the same into carbonic acid in the dark, we
 must allow there will be, between these gases, a certain
 ratio depending on the longer or shorter duration of their
 exposure to those extremes ; consequently there will be,
 caeteris paribus, less oxygen and more carbonic acid given
 out in winter than in summer.
    Carbon is susceptible of solution or suspension in water,
 as is evident from the coaly residue obtained on evaporating
 the drainings of dunghills.      Carbon is also in a soluble
 state in all vegetable mould, as is shown by the brown
Jtinge of a cold infusion of any fertile soil. Wherever heaps
 of dung are thrown, and water in the interim fallen, there
 subsequent vegetation is more vigorous ; and so it ever will
 be where carbon is in a state of solubility by water.      The
 infusions of long and of spit, or perfectly rotted dung, are of
 different hues, the former being but pale, as weakly charged
with carbon. On applying them as manure, the spot fed
with the latter produced the first year larger and more vi
gorous plants than the former ; but in the second year
 (neither parcel being fresh manured) the part supplied
with the long dung showed much the superiority j and so
likewise in the third year this latter had somewhat the
advantage: proving that, in the long dung, less of the
carbon was (when first applied) in a state to be taken up
by water than in the short and wholly putrified dung. The
latter, therefore, gives out its coaly principle the first year,
 whereas the former requires more time for its carbon to be
rendered in the state proper to be taken up by the plant.
Nothing can better illustrate this than the effects of chips
of wood as a manure. These having lain some time heaped
up, so as to experience a beginning fermentation, were
laid upon a portion of land : during the first and second
years the earth so manured presented no better produce
than other in its vicinity not manured.        In the third year
the production was more abundant.           In the fourth yet
more. In the fifth it appeared to have attained its maxi
mum of production, and diminished till the ninth, in which
the manure seemed wholly exhausted.          In a word, all cir
cumstances the same, vegetation is most strong and vigor
ous where the soil contains the greatest quantity of carbon
in a state of solution.   Yet, without doubt, there is a cer
tain maximum with regard to the quantum required, beyond
which the presence of superabundant carbon will prove
unnecessary and expensive, but this proportion must in
    Vol. XVII. No. 68.           X                         evcrv

323                      On Vegetation!
every case be relative   to the nature of each plant, as to its
exhausting power.
    M. Baisse proved that plants growing in water tinged
with madder become red ; and Bonnet found them black
on growing in ink. These prove that the roots of plants
can take up coloured water, and deposit the colouring mat
ter in the interior of the growing vegetable.      On the same
principle they take up water holding carbon in solution, and,
depositing the same in the interior of the plants, contribute
to their increase*
    If we compare then this manner of increase of carbon in
a plant, with the disengagement of oxygen in the light>
carbonic acid in the dark, and the temperature of plants
during vegetation, we shall find that, during that process,
cold is produced when the plant is acted upon by the sun<
:md warmth when under contrary circumstances.             In the
former case, the decomposition and evaporation of the wa
ter cause absorption of caloric, while one cause only tends
to its disengagement ; namely, the combination of the
carbon, hydrogen, and other constituent parts of the plant,
whence it is probable cold is produced. While in the latter
case, and in the absence of the sun, the formation of car
bonic acid, by the carbon in the plant, and the oxygen of
the atmosphere, must produce heat, owing to the ditferent
capacities of those, gases for caloric : in other words, the
quantity of combined caloric being greater in the oxygen
gas than is required by carbon for maintaining its aeriform'
acid state, the superabundant portion becomes free, and*
sensible heat is produced.
    It follows, from the above recited experiments, that car
bon, in a state of solution in water, is taken up by the
radical fibres of vegetables and deposited within the plant,
 in the same manner as colouring particles are found to be,
thus constituting the real pabuTuin of the vegetable king
dom, without the presence of which in the soil no seed can
of itself vegetate beyond that degree of perfection which its
own innate carbon may allow of, as the crisis stamped by
nature as that wherein it is in a condition to sliift for itself,
 provided the food proper to that intent is within its reach.
 Exclusive of the mode of operation, and degrees of fertility
  of different manures dependent on the greater or less state
 of solubility of their contained earbou, another, not less
 important act of vegetation, deduced from the above, is the
 augmentation,   of  the   temperature    of the atntosphere by
  plants when uot exposed      to solar light, as also the dimi
                                                          nution

       Use of alkalized Oxide of Iron in Calico Printing. 323
nut ion of the same whilst acted upon by that luminary ; a
law in vegetable economy equally tending to serve the
wisest of intentions, and forming but another link in that
chain of beautiful analogies which modern discoveries have
served to unfold as eminently subservient to the welfare of
the human race, whether displayed in the reciprocal ser
vices of the animal and vegetable kingdoms, the modifi
cation of climate, by planetary as well as local advantages,
or the gift of those indigenous productions which consti
tute an important requisite to internal prosperity and com
 mercial enterprise.                                   *
 LX.     Observations   on the Use   of Stahl's alkalized Oxide of
     Iron * in Calico Printing.        By J. M. Hausman f.
 I   make great use of this dye in the preparation of printed
 calicoes, and I endeavour, as much as possible, to over
load it with oxide of iron. I tie up the metal destined for
 solution into a bundle, that I may take it out at pleasure
 when the nitrous acid is ready to now over. By employing
 this precaution I guard against precipitation, and easily
 suspend the solution ; for when the bundle is taken out,
 (after the effervescence, which produces a great heat, has
 sufficiently subsided,) while an excess of acid still remains,
 which is certainly necessary, you will obtain a pigment
 without any deposit.
     If a sufficient quantity of fluid, consisting of three parts
 calcined carbonate of potash of the shops, and two parts of
 water, be poured into the nitrous solution of iron, there
 will, on stirring the mass, by which means it effervesces
 h little in consequence of the excess of acid, be formed a
 magma, to which as much liquid carbonate of potash must
 be added as is necessary for its complete solution.                 This
 dye, or this solution of iron, gives, with a fifth or a sixth
 part of gum-water prepared from equal parts of gum-
 arabic ana water and then thickened, ochry yellow colours,
 which can be easily purified. The addition of a twelfth
 part of a decoction of yellow berries, with a twenty-fourth
 part of a decoction of logwood, gives that tint known under
 the name of American colour, and a twelfth part of a de-
    * Stahl ealis this union Tinctura maslis atialina.   It was afterwards
 known by the    name of Stahl's alkaline limlure of iron.   It is nothing
 rise than a combination of oxide of iron with potash.      See Macqutt i
 Cnm. Wonerhiitb, vol. vi. p. 550.
    T From AUgemwu! Journal da Chrmie, No. 24.

i24               Observations         on tlte Use   of Stahl's
coction of logwood, without yellow berries, gives a choco
late colour.
    If this dye be diluted with a sufficient quantity of water,
 all the oxide falls to the bottom.     When edulcorated, fil
tered, and bfought to a white heat in a crucible, this oxide
polishes steel as completely as the English colcotbar*
    Linen or worsted yarn imbibed with this dye, and then
 immersed in a dye-liquor prepared with caustic alkali,
 which precipitates the oxide of iron, acquires by this pro
cess a much darker yellow than when it is left at rest for
twenty-four hours, and then dried and washed.
    Every drop of a solution of caustic alkali applied to this?
dye precipitates from it a part of the oxide as it overcomes
the carbonic acid. By these means it is completely de
composed; and this oxide, when washed and exposed to
heat for a sufficient time, gives a very fine polish to steel.
    This dye, as I have already said, is nothing else than a
solution of hyperoxygenated carbonate of iron by an alka
line carbonate, which, serves it as a vehicle ; only care must
be taken not to add too much when dark colours are re
quired.
    All solutions of iron sufficiently oxygenated, treated
with an alkaline carbonate in the same manner as the
nitrous solution of iron, are capable of producing a similar
dye. I have convinced myself of this fact by employing
the acetic, muriatic, and sulphuric acids for this purpose.
The latter I obtained in two ways : in one I dissolved sul
phate of iron in nitrous acid, and, when the effervescence
and disengagement of nitrous gas had ceased, subjected it
to evaporation ; in the other, 1 proceeded according to the
process which I gave in mv paper on the artilicial prepara
tion of volatile alkali, published in the Journal de Physique
for June 1 797 ; that         suffering the solution of sulphate
                                 is,   by
of iron to absorb nitrous gas. By both solutions obtained
a  hyperoxvgenated acetous solution, of iron, as         decom    I I
posed   it   by   acetate   of    lead.
    A nitrous solution of copper, prepared from nine pounds-
green oxide of copper, nine pounds of water, and three
pounds cream of tartar, with       solution of carbonate of
                                             a
potash, and treated as the nitrous solution of iron, pro
duces the same effects.    When mixed with gum, and im
printed on woollen or cotton stuffs,     deposits the oxide of
                                                     it
copper of beautiful green tint.
              a                         gummed ammoniacal
                                                 A
solution of copper may be employed in its stead for when          ;
the cloth     dried the ammonia is disengaged from
             is                                           and           it,
                                                           the

           alkalized Oxide    of Iron in Calico Printing.        325
the green oxide remains united with it in consequence of
its cohesion.
    If linen or woollen yarn be imbibed in nitrous acid
diluted with more or less water, or any other hyper-
oxygenated solution of iron, and then be exposed for some
minutes to a caustic alkaline ley, a beautiful nankeen co
lour will be produced.       Instead of this nitrous solution, a
solution more or less diluted of sulphuric acid may be em
ployed. Many articles when taken from the caustic ley
are dirty, but when they have attracted the oxygen of the
atmosphere, they acquire the proper brightness.                These
colours pass to violet and black by maddenng.              They will
acquire    a deep  black  colour,   as  well  as different shades of
gray,   when    treated  with  gall-nuts,    sumach,    or  logwood.
Several blue shades may also be obtained from them, by
employing a ley of alkaline prussiate, or calcareous earth,
oxygenated     by any acid. The various shades of morose
gray are produced by stronger or weaker infusions of gall-
nuts, which must be suffered to dry on the yarn impreg
nated with them ; after which the yarn is immersed in sul -
phuric, nitric, muriatic, or acetic acid, diluted with water.
    A nitrous solution of iron, when freed from its acid by
evaporation, and when the residuum is brought to a white
heat in a crucible, gives an oxide of iron which is an excel
lent polisher of steel.    The case is. the same with a solution
of iron in sulphuric acid ; but in this case the oxide must
be longer exposed to heat.          A muriatic solution of iron
may be employed for the same purpose j but the acid,
when evaporated by a strong heat, carries with it a large
portion of the oxide. All methods in general, by which
iron can be sufficiently oxygenated, will produce an oxide
fit for the polishing of steel.
    I must here mention an experiment which communi     I
cated about ten years ago to my friends Wild and Arbogart.
Having once tried to oxygenate oxide of iron as much as
possible in order to convert it into acid, I mixed together,
in the course of several unsuccessful experiments, a pound
of a nitrous solution of iron and half a pound of concen
trated sulphuric acid .      When the mixture was evaporated
to dryness in a porcelain dish, there remained a white re
siduum, entirely insipid.        On examining it several weeks
after, I found that it had attracted moisture, and had
assumed an astringent taste.          A few weeks after, when a
certain portion of it had dissolved in the moisture which
this residuum had attracted from the atmosphere, I pouigd-
                                X   3                          -off

326    Use  of alkalized Oxide of Iron in Calico Printing.
off the liquid, which still had an astringent taste, and pre
served  it in a glass. After some time I found in it very .
beautiful colourless and transparent crystals, which resem
bled alum.     Having immersed it in an alkaline solution of
prussic acid, its surface became covered with the most
beautiful Prussian blue, which suffered itself to be removed
by washing without its colour being changed. This blue
was reproduced as long as any of the crystals remained. In
the air these crystals became yellowish, in consequence, no
doubt, of the solar rays having disengaged from them a
          of oxygen } for when I examined them afterwards,
  found that they were nothing else than hyperoxygenated
Fortion
sulphate of iron.      This salt is insupportably astringent.
When diluted with a great deal of water a precipitate is
produced, and speedier when the mixture is exposed to
heat. The filtered precipitate had a most beautiful yellow
colour.    A high temperature, however, deprived it of its
rust colour, as it by these means lost its excess of oxygen.
   On repeating this experiment I always obtained the same
result ; and when I exposed the white insipid residuum in
a glass retort, combined with a Woolf 's apparatus, to such
a degree of heat as brought it to a state of ignition, the acid
was disengaged from it in the form of sulphureous and
sulphuric acid, accompanied with a mixture of oxygen gas.
The oxide of iron obtained in the retort after the experi
ment was of a brownish red colour, and lit for polishing.
   If the quantity of the sulphuric acid be lessened, there
will be obtained, in like manner, a white pulverulent resi
duum, which, notwithstanding its insipidity, dissolves in
an equal part of warm water, and after cooling, and being
left some time at rest, produces crystals.
   The hyperoxygenated oxide of iron, obtained by caustic
alkali, from Stanl's tincture of iron, or any other acid so
lution of that metal, when precipitated and again dissolved
in sulphuric acid, with some excess of the latter, give9
also beautiful crystals of hyperoxygenated sulphate of iron.
   The common sulphate of iron, which is oxygenated by
nitrous acid, or^by the absorption of nitrous gas, does not
crystallize ; and, when the evaporation is not continued to
dryness, acquires the consistence of syrup or of honey.
But if a fifth or a sixth part of concentrated sulphuric acid
be added, a confused crystallization is immediately pro
duced which forms a compact mass.            This proves that
hyperoxygenated crystallized sulphate of iron requires a
greater quantity of acid than the common sulphate,
         3                      ,                          The

        Improvement in the Form        of  Spectacle   Glasses.   327
   The muriatic acid becomes very strongly oxygenated
when dissolved in hyperoxygenated sulphate of iron, which
thereby acquires a yellowish colour.
   The hyperoxygenation of iron increases its affinity for
acids in such a manner that callico-printers make no use of
an acetic solution of hyperoxygenated oxide of iron, as it
does not readily give up its acid by drying.
LXI.    On an Improvement       in the Form    of Spectacle  Glasses.
      By Wm. Hyde          Wollaston, M. D. F. R.           S.  *
XT must     have been remarked by persons who majee use of
spectacles,    especially those who require glasses of short
focal distance, that objects seen through them appear di
stinct only when viewed through the central parts of the
glasses ; that, when the direction of the sight E O, Fig. l .
(Plate IX.) is considerably inclined to the surfaces, objects
appear distorted, and that this defect is greater in propor
tion to the greater obliquity of that line.
   It is on this account that opticians have lately made and
recommended spectacle glasses of less diameter than those
formerly in use, thinking that the extreme parts of the field
of vision, which from indistinctness were of little use, might
be spared without much inconvenience.                But this altera
tion in the size of the glasses could hardly claim the merit
of an improvement, since for one defect it only substituted,
another scarcely less objectionable,
   It seems indeed rather extraordinary that during five
centuries which have elapsed since the invention of specta
cles, neither theory nor accident should have produced any
considerable variation from their original construction.
   It was indeed conceived by Huygens f, that the glasses,
instead of being equally curved on both sides, as is cus
tomary, should have the curvatures of their opposite sur
faces in the proportion of 6 to 1, because he had demon
strated that such a form was best suited to the object-glasses
of telescopes.
   Dr. Smith also,      in his Treatise on Optics (p. 258.), re*
peats this opinion       of Huygens in the following cursory
manner    :
             " And consequently this figure of a glass is the,
                   * Communicated
                                      by the author.
                                                                     '
                    t Dioptr. Prop. 28.        t
                                X   4                             best

328      Improvement   in the Form   of Spectacle  Glasses.
best for spectacles, as the double concave        of like figure is
the best to help short-sighted persons."
     But although it may be very true that such a form of
glass was best calculated for the object-glass of a telescope,
previous to the celebrated discovery of the achromatic ob
ject-glass by the late Mr. Dollond ; yet, whatever advan
 tages might at any time be expected from the telescopic
 object-glass so shaped, these were not to be obtained by a
 similar construction in spectacles, as may easily be seen by
 considering the difftrent uses of thp respective instru
ments.
     In a telescope, in the first place, our view is necessarily
 confined to a very small distance on each side of the axis ;
 and secondly, every part of the object-glass contributes to
 the distinctness of any object viewed.
     It is under these circumstances alone that the proportion
 of the curvatures above mentioned might be proper for a
 single object-glass, as being capable of collecting into the
 same focus the rays that fall on every part of it parallel to
 the axis.
     By spectacles, on the contrary, objects are to be viewed
 if possible in every direction in which they might be seen
 by the naked eye, which is often far removed from the
 centres of the glasses ; consequently, a construction that is
 calculated to represent correctly central objects alone caiiT
 not be the most advantageous.
     In these also the portion of the glass employed at once is
 scarcely larger than the pupil of the eye j so that any en
 deavour to procure the concurrence ot all parts of a glass
 in any one effect is evidently superfluous, and may also be
 shown to be prejudicial.
     It is therefore proposed to remedy the imperfections ob
  servable in the spectacle glasses hitherto generally used
 upon a principle suggested by this latter consideration,
 which presents an opportunity, by a different construction,
 of rendering objects in all directions distinct.
     The alteration requisite for this purpose is extremely sim
 ple, and easily intelligible.    Supposing an eye to be placed
  in the centre of any hollow globe of glass, it is plain that
  objects would then be seen perpevdiauarly through its sur
  face in every direction.      Consequently, the more nearly
  any spectacle glass can be made to surround the eye, in the
  manner of a globular surface, the more nearly will every
  part of it be at right aiigks to the line of sight, the more
 uniform will be the power of its different parts, and the
            1                                                 more

     On the Strengths and Values          of Spirituous Liquors. 329
more completely will the indistinctness of lateral objects
be avoided     *.
    According to this principle all         spectacle glasses should be
convex on their exterior surface, and concave within. The
section of those for long-sighted persons will assume the
form of a meniscus or crescent, Fig. 2. and those adapted
for short sight will have their principal curvature on the
concave side, Fig. 3.
    It is only necessary to add, that the advantage of this
improvement in the form of spectacle glasses has been
confirmed by a sufficient number of experiments on different
persons, and that those in particular, who are very long, or
very short sighted, are much benefited by them.
    The most advantageous proportions of curvature for ob
taining the different focal lengths, now generally distin
guished by certain numbers, have also been duly considered,
and the manufacture of spectacles on this construction has
been undertaken by Messrs. P. and J. Dollond, to whom
 the exclusive sale of them is secured by patent, and whose
Well-known skill in the construction of optical instru
ments ensures to this improvement every advantage of
 correct execution.
    The opportunity afforded by these glasses of looking round
at various objects, it is thought may not improperly be ex
pressed by the name of Periscopic Spectacles.
 LXII. Of       the general Relation between the Specific Gravi'
    ties and the Strengths and Values of Spirituous Liquors,
    and the Circumstances by which the former are influenced.
                         [Concluded from p.     no.]
  Problems and Rules        for the Adaptation of         Mr. Gilpin's
                   Tables to the present Standard.
   § 31. Problem I. — The specific gravity of a liquor at
any given temperature being given, to find that which it
possesses at any other temperature.
    * To mathematicians it will be evident that
                                                   any ray which docs not
 pass through the centre of a lens cannot be at right angles to both sur
 faces ; but.they will also perceive, that when any small oblique pencil
 makes equal angles with the two sui faces of a thin lens, the inclination
of ic to each is so small, that its focal length B D, Fig 4. will not sen
sibly differ from A C, that of a central pencil.
                                                            Practical

 330            Relation between the Specific       Gravities and
                            Practical Rule.
    Find the given specific gravity in the table adapted to the
 given temperature, and fake out the correspondent numbers
from Column I. Search for tliese numbers in Column            of         I
 the table for any other temperature,     and the correspondent
 specific gravity is that which is required.
                                 Examples.
     If a   liquor have the specific gravity         of   664 at 77°,   what
will it     have at 43°?
                                  Solution.
    Looking for 864 in Column             II
                                     of the table for 779, we
 find that the nearest numbers are 863*82 and 865- 14 (or,
which amounts to the same thing, -86382 and .86514,
Mr. Gilpin considering the specific gravity of distilled water
as represented by unity instead of 1000 [see Note on § &]);
whilst 100 Sp. + 27 W., and 100 Sp. + 28 W., are also
the correspondent numbers in Column I. Taking propor
tional parts, therefore, 864 in Column              II
                                           answers to a liquor
which, according to Column I, contains 100 parts of Mr.
Gilpin's alcohol combined with 27' 14 by weight of water;
and again, looking for this same compound in Column I of
the table for 43°, we find in like manner that the corre
spondent specific gravity at that temperature, as expressed
in Column II of that table, is 879'85.
     §   32.    Problem II. — To find
                                  the per-centage of any                     li
quor whose specific gravity and temperature are given.
                           Practical Rules.
     Look into Column       II   of   the table answering to the given
temperature for the given specific gravity, and take out the
correspondent number from Column               VIII.
                                           Multiply 162'42
by this number, and the product is the answer.
   Or, add 2*2106308 to the logarithm of the number so
found in Column         VIII,    and the sum       will   be   the logarithm
df   the per-centage.
                                 Examples.
   l . What is the per-centage of              a   liquor whose specific
gravity at 48° is 887 ?
                         Solution.
  We must here, firstly, look into Column II of the table
marked    heat 48°" for 887. The nearest numbers arc
               ','
886-00 and 88" '16. The correspondent numbers in Co-,
lumn VIII are against the former -8014, and against the
                                                    latter

           the Strengths and Values                 of Spirituous Liquors.             331
latter '7965.Taking proportional parts, as before, '7972
in Column VIII answers to 887 in Column II.
  Therefore, by the first method, 162-42 x -7972, qt
129*48,          is the per-centage required.
  And, by           the second method, to log. *7972 =1-9015673
                                Add the constant log. = 2*2106308
   And 129-48, the natural number answering
        to the sum, is the per-centage required J-2-1121981
           =     29*48
                       •
                            O.P.                                           i}„
   2.      What        is       the   per-centage     of   a    liquor whose specific
gravity at 75°              is
                                 953£
                                          ?
                                              Solution.
   On looking into the Columns                            II
                                      and VIII of the table
marked " heat 73°", we find that the number in the latter
corresponding to 953^ in the former      -3827.                is
   Therefore, by the first method, 162-42 x '3827,- or
62-1.64. ' the required per-centage.
               is
 'rJ              Andby the latter, log. -3827 =1-5828585
                                 Constant log. = 2-2106308
  .And the        same number 62*16 answering to
           the sum, indicates the per-centage as be-                      > ~j)
                                                                                  1*7934893
           fore (= 37*84 U.P.)
  §        33.      Problem           III. — The    per-centage     a liquor at a
                                                                     of
given, temperature being given,                       to Jind its specific gravity
at that temperature.
                                      Practical Rules.
      Multiply the per-centage        *006157; search for the
                                                     by
product    in Column             the  VIII
                                     table     of
                                           adapted to the given
temperature,    and live correspondent  number   in Column                              II   is
its specific gravity.
    Or, add the constant logarithm 3*7893692 to that qfthc
 per-centage search for the correspondent natural number
                      ;
 in Column             VIII
                     the proper table, and the specific gravity
 against      that
                 it   tlie liquor.
                      is          of of
                                              Examples.
  -
      1.    What  the specific gravity of liquor at 48",
                           is                                  a                      which
 is   129*48 (or 29*48 O.P.) at that temperature?
                                                                                    Solution.

&35            Relation between the Specific Gravities and
                                        Solution.
    Here, 129-48 x -006157 is = -7072.
   Or, 3-7893692 + 2-1122027 (= log. of 129-48) *=
1-9015719= log. of -7972.
    Which number being found in Column VIII of the table
marked " heat 48°,'' gives 887 for the correspondent spe
cific gravity in Column II, and which is accordingly that
of the liquor.                           ___
   2. What is the specific gravity of a liquor at 75°, which
is 62-16 (or 37-84 U.P.) at that temperature?
                           Solution,                    ¦
     In this
          case 62-16 x -006157 (or the natural number
answering to the logarithm 1-5828802, being the sum of
1-7935110,            the log.    of 62-16      and      "i-
                                                           7893692)          is   -3827,
which being found                in Column VIII of the table marked
                                  953^ in Column II for the specific
*'   heat 75°,"          gives
gravity        of   the liquor at that temperature.
     §   Problem IV. — The per-centage
         34.                                   liquor at       of   a                   a
given temperature being given, to Jind that which     pos                     it
sesses    at any other temperature.
                                 Practical Rule.
   Multiply the given per-centage      the liquor   of-00-6157          by
(either        by
           means     naturalofnuinbers   or     the addition   by                       of
3*7893692 to its logarithm), as in Problem III. Find the
product in Column               Fill    of
                               the table corresponding   to its
temperature,   and take  out the  correspoiulcnt numbers from
Column        Enter the table adapted to the temperature at
               I.
which its per-centage      required with these numbers
                                   is                      take               ;
out the correspondent   number from Column           and mul        VIII
tiply    it  162-42, as in Problem II,
               by                           The product is the
psr-centage at that temperature.
                                      Example.
   What   the per-centage of brandy
               is                                        at 75°,     which        is   105
(or  O.P.) at 33°?
     5
                                       Solution.
                          105    X    -006157 = -6165.
     And -6465, in Column   VIII of the table for 33°, answers
to   acompound of 100 -f 73-8 in Column                        I.
   This same compound being found in Column             of the           I
table for 75°, gives -6337 in Column VIII       and this mul   ;
tiplied        by
            162-42    = 102-93, the require^ per-centage at
                           is
that temperature.
                                                                                        If

        the Strengths and Values     of Spirituous Liquors.       333
    If the gallon of proof spirit at 60°, therefore, be taken as
the standard, this liquor loses more than two per cent, in
its real value per gallon by the elevation of its temperature
from 33° to 75°.
    § 35. Problem V. — The per-centage and temperature of
a liquor being given, to find the concentration per cent., or
that diminution in measure which would take place on re
ducing 100 parts of it to proof, or proof to 100 parts of
such liquor at the same temperature.
                          Practical Rule.
                                   I
    Firstly, Look into Column of the table adapted to the
given temperature for the liquor answering to -6157 in Co
lumn     VIII  ft his being proof in all the tables) ; divide the
correspondent number in Column VI by that in Column V;
multiply the quotient (which at the temperature of 60° is
•027768,1 by the given per-centage, and the product will
be the concentration of the equivalent quantity of proof, or
 that contained in 100 parts of the given liquor,         if  it were
made up from M. Gilpin's alcohol, according to the suppo
sition on which his tables are founded.
    Secondly, Look for the given liquor in the same table
 (having first found its correspondent number in Colwmn          VIII
 by Problem III), and divide the number in Column                  VI
 (taking all the three figures as integers) by that in Co-
 tnmn V, and the difference between the former product and
 this quotient will be the concentration required.
                              Example.
    What is the concentration       per cent, on reducing rum       of
  145 (or 45 O.P.) to proof at     77°?
                               Solution.
    Firstly, Against '6157 in Column VIII (which, as be
 fore mentioned, indicates proof), in the table for 77°, the
 correspondent numbers in Column VI and V are 4.21 and
  160-37 ; the quotient    of the former by the latter     is -02655
 and -02625 X 145 is        =  3*8065.
    Secondly, Against -8928 in Column VIII of the same table,
 the correspondent numbers in Column VI and V are 1-26
 and 110*9 respectively, and             is =   1-14.
    And 3-8065 — 1*14 is = 2-667, or           2$.
    The concentration, therefore, under        these circumstances,
.would be 2$ per cent, on the quantity of the over-proof re
 duced, and it would therefore require 47§- per cent, of water
 to reduce it.
                                                                 §36.

334           Relation between tlie Specific Gravities and
    § 36. Problem            VI. — The    quantities by measure of any
number df liquors of different strengths, and their per -cent -
age, at a given temperature being given, to find the per
centage of the compound when reduced to thai temperature.
                              Practical Rule.
    Firstly, Find the tabular specific gravity of each liquor
at the given temperature by Problem III, and multiply such
quantity by its respective specific gravity so found.
    Secondly, Find the compound correspondent to each in
Column       I;    multiply each product obtained as above by the
¦weight of the spirit in its respective compound as found in
that column, ana divide the product by the sum of the weights
of its spirit and water.
                                                    I
    Thirdly, Find a liquor in Column ivhose weight of spirit
is to that of its wfwle composition as the sum of all trie quo
tients obtained in the second step to that of all the products
obtained in the first ; and it will be that which is equivalent
to the compound produced by the mixture of all the given
liquors, whose pcr-centagc may therefore be determined by
 Problem II.
                                   Example.
    Suppose we           mix    556    gallons      of brandy of          111    (ar
 11  O.P.), 942        of   03 (or 7 U.P-), 427           of 80 (or     20  U.P.),
346 of 117 (or 17 O.P.), and 1111 of 105 (or 5 O.P.)j all
at 67°, together; what will be the per-centage of the coin-
pound      ?
                                     Solution.
 Firstly,
    The tabular specific gravity of             111    at 67° (by
 Prob. Ill) is = 902-44, which                   X    356 is -        =      501-/6
That of 93 is = 925-04, which                    x    942 is
                                                                 -    =      871-39
 That of 80 is = 939-48, which                   x    427 is -        —     401-16
 That of 117 is = 894-33, which                  x    346 is -        = 300-44
 That of 105 is = 910-25, which                  x  1111 is      -    = 10H-3T)
                 And   the sum     of these products is          -    = 3095-05
     Secondly,
III  at (i7" is
                 ~
                    lOOSp. 4-G005 \V. and      501-7fi  X  100     -^ 100-05 =  313-50
 93 - - -    is  =  100 Sp. + 95.33 W. and     871-39   x  100     ~ 195-83   = 444-in
 80 - - -    is  =  100 W.  -f 70VJ4 Sp. and   401-lli X    "u-24 -4- 176-24  = 173-54
117           is =  100 Sp. 4-5019 W.    and   309-14   x  100     -r 150-49 =: 30 il>il
103 - - -    is  =  100 Sp. -f 7O-60-W. and   101 1-30  x  100     -r 1706£ =   592-53
                                     And the   sum   of these quotients is  =  1730-21
    Thirdlv,       1730-21    : 3095-05      : ;   100   : 179-883.
                                                                                 The

        the Strengths and Values             of Spirituous Liquors.       33$
  The resulting compound will    therefore be found to be
<equal in strength to one composed of 100 parts by weiglit
of Mr. Gilpin's alcohol with 78-88 of water, and which is,
by Problem II, = 100-765 (= about £ or 3 quarts O.P.)
at 67°.
   § 37. Problem VII.— To find the quantity by measure
which will he produced by a mixture of given quantities                       of'
different strengths at any given temperature, as in the last
problem.
                           Practical Rule.
   Divide the sum     the products found in the first step
                         of                                                   of
the preceding process      the tabular specific gravity
                                by                         the          of
resulting compound, ana the quotient     will  be the quantity
 bymeasure produced.
                                  Example.
   What quantity of the compound shall we have under the
circumstances stated in the example to the last problem                   ?
                                      Solution.
      The tabular specific gravity of          the resulting compound         of
100-765       (or   i   O.P.)    at    67°    is   -91558;   and   3°9??5     =r'
3380-43 gallons at that temperature.
   Note. The sum of the .quantities mixed in the present
instance was 3382 gallons so that the concentration
                                        ;                                     by
mixture in this case was about six quarts.
  §  38. Problem VIII. — To find what proportions,                            by
weight or measure,          of
                         any number        liquors      of
                                                       different   of
strength,  but at the same temperature,   must   be mixed toge
ther in order to produce    compound which shall be
                                  a                          any        of
required strength between that          the strongest and the
                                                   of
weakest     them at that temperature.
              of
                              Practical Rule.
    Firstly, Find the specific gravity    each liquor, and also
                                                        of
 that     t/ie required compound at the given temperature,
         of                                                                   by
 Problem III.
    Secondly, Find tlie compound corresponding to each         the       of
 given liquors,    and also to  the  required compound,     in Co
 lumn    I,and divide the weight      the spirit in each compound
                                             of
  by the sum       of
                  the weights    its spirit and wafer.
                                        of
    Thirdly, Range the quotients belonging to these given
 liquors in any convenient order, and couple or pair them to
 gether    lycurves or circumflexes,    so that every one which               is
                                                                        greater

    336        Relation between the Specific Gravities
            than that belonging to the required composition may
      coupled or paired with
    Sealer                    some one which is less.
       Fourthly, Against each of these place the difference be
    tween that with which it is so coupled or paired, and the
    quotient belonging to the required compound.
        Fifthly, Then as the sum of all these differences is to the
    difference (or sum of the differences,      more than one,J     if
    standing against each quotient,  so is the specific gravity of
    the required compound to the proportion of each by weight
    which will produce it ; which proportion, divided by the re
    spective specific gravity of each before mixture, gives that
    of each by measure.
                                           Example.
       In order to make up 774 gallons of a compound which
    shall be 108 (or 8 O.P.), at 50*, how much must I take of
    each of rive liquors, of which one is 127 (or 27 O.P.), an
    other 116 (or 16 O.P.), another 102 (or 2 O.P.), another
    87 (or 13 U.P.), and another 67 (or 33 U.P.)?
                                            Solution.
      Firstly, The specific gravity of 127 at 50° is = '88948 ;
    that of 116 = -90473; that of 102 = -92239; that of 87
    = -93954; that of 67 = "95627 ; and that of the required
    compound of 108 = '91498, by Problem III.
  Secondly, The comO                                                                    by weight,
pound answering to > = 100 Sp. -4- 37-89 W.                              ¦72522
                                                                                        of Mr. Gil
127 at 50° is           3                                                               pin's alco-
                                                                and
That answering; to 1 1G is = 100 Sp. -|- 53-55 W.                        •65125
           ——        103 is          = 100 Sp. 78-03
                                                -j-      W, ^con-^       •56170
                                                                                ^hol, of the
—
                                                                tains            specific gra
                      87             = 00 W. -L 88-83    Sp.             •47042
                          is is is
                                       1
                                                                                 vity of 82*
i
                      67             = 100 W. 55-07
                                                -f-      Sp.             ¦35513
                                                                                 at 60".
And the required spirit              = 100 Sp. 66-77     W.              •60101
      Thirdly and fourthly,^
    The proportion      by
                    weight                 I
    or spirit in the required               |                        Alternate
    compound    is                         J                        Differences.
                                                      '¦72522        •24588
                                                                f    -03931   1
                                                       65125                       '.
                                                                                          •16990-
                                                                 1-13051    /
                                                ,  -56170            •05024
                                                 ^•47042             •05024
                                                      •35513         •12421
                      Sum of the differences                    =    "64047
                                                                                        Fifthly,

      the Strengths and Values          of Spirituous Liquors.              337
  Fifthly,
          "•84588'                      •35127       =
                                                  the proportion by
                                                   weight of 127
         1   -16990                     •24272 = that of 116
'64047
              05024     f               •07177 = that of each of
                                               those of 102 and 87
             •12421                     •17745      ==    that of 67-
      And     35'^      t=   '30491, the proportion by measure of
              '*8»+8
                        -
                                      127 (or 27 O.P.)
              '^21           -26828, that of       1 16   (or 16   O.P.J'
              •904.73
              •07177
                             •07781,   that   of   102 (or 2     O.P.)
              •92239
              '¦^Z = -07639, that of 87                     13   U.P.)
                                        (or
                        -
              •9395+
              —12            -18517, that of 67 (or
                                                v   33           U.P.)'
              •95827
But   these making 1-00256, the concentration by mixture
is therefore -00256 of the whole ; and, multiplying each of
these by the required quantity, 7 74 gallons, we get
305-66 gallons for the requisite quantity by measure of 12?*
            (or 27 O.P.)
207-65 gallons for that of 116 (or 16 O.P.)
  60-23 gallons for that of 102 (or 2 O.P.)
  59-13 gallons for that of 87 (or 13 U.P.)
 14S-33 gallons for that of 67 (or 33 U.P.)
776;    gallons in the whole, composing after the mixture
the 774 gallons required; the concentration in this case
being exactly 2 gallons.
   It will easily be perceived; that, when the proportions of
more than two of these different kinds of spirit are undefined,
as in ihe preceding question, the problem admits of many
answers, and the quantities of each kind of liquor may ac
cordingly be variously proportioned.
  A variety of other problems may be proposed and solved
by means of these tables, which the mathematician will
suggest to himself without any difficulty. There   in fact,        is,
no possible question respecting these matters, of which,
with the proper application or arithmetic or algebra, we
may not here find the solution.  The authors of this essay
  Vol. XVII, No. 63.                   Y          conceive

          '
338            helation between the Specific Gravities and
conceive themselves to be as patient and attentive in experi
ment as the majority of persons ; but they are obliged t»
confess, that they so far prefer these experiments to their
own, that they have long taken them as the groundwork of
all their calculations for the graduation of their spirit-hydro
meters.
    § 39. As every one into whose hands the present essay
may fall may, perhaps, not be in possession of the tables
of Mr. Gilpin, we shall in this chapter present the reader
with two short but correct tables of our own, calculated
from his experiments by the methods before given in the
last ; by the help of which the per-centage, according to
the mode of estimating         described and recommended in
                                       it,
§   26, and the concentration per cent, on reducing any
over-proof spirit to proof, or proof to an under-proof, may
be accurately obtained, and that even with more facility
than from those of Mr. Gilpin himself, in their present
state of arrangement.
                                         Table   I.
For finding          the Specific        Gravity      of  any Spirituous Com
    pound at 60°, when that which                   it   possesses at any other
    Temperature    given.is
                    Correct.                     Correct.                  Correct.
    Specific        for each        Specific     for each       Specific   for each
    Gravity.        Degree.         Gravity.     Degree.        Gravity.   Degree.
810 to 820 ±¦475 880               to 890 ± -456 950 to 960                ± -340
 20 to 30 ±•473 90                 to 900± -450 60 to    70                ± -269
 30 to 40 ± '472 900               to 910±'442    70 to  80                ±•165
 40 to 50 ±•471                    to 20 ±'434 80 to                       ± -090
                                                            '
                  10                                     90
 50 to         60 ± -471        GO to  30 ± '424 90 to 1000                ± -084
 60 to         70 ±•466         30 to 40 ± '406
 70 to         SO   ±•460       40 to 50 ± -381
                               USE OF THE TABLE.
    The above Table to be entered with the existing specific
                               is
 gravity of the liquor, against which will be found th« cor
 rection to be added to     for every degree which its tempera
                                    it
ture     higher,
         is       or subtracted for every degree which                        it   is
lower than 60°.
                                       Example.
    If   a    quantity of rum      of the specific gravity of 894 at
                                       is
73°, what        will be its specific gravity at 60             i
                                                                              Ans%

        tlie Strengths and Values                of Spirituous Liquors.                   339
    Ans. Here,           the specific gravity being between 890 and
'800,    we must add *450 for each degree of difference.                                  ThtJ
specific gravity, therefore, at 60° would> of course, be 894
 H- -450 X 13 = 899*85.
                                      Table II.
For Jinding the Per-centage of any Spirituous Compound
   at 6o°, when its Specific Gravity at that Temperature is
   given.
   SpecificPer-ccntageCorr.tbr Concen Corr.toi 1specificPer-centase.
                                                                   Corr.tbr Conccn- Corr.tbt
   GraTity.           eachl- tration. each1. Gravity.              cachl.    11ation. cich 1.
    810 16922                   5-62             905 11179                  0- 56
                        •426            ¦080                         •772              ¦037
      15 16709                  5-22               10 10793                 o- 37
                        •460           •074                          ¦778              •037
      20 16479                  485                15 10404                 o-    19
                        •474           •068                          •808              •037
      25 16242                 451                 20 10000                 o- 00
                       •506            ¦063                          •834              •033
      30 159-89                419                 25    95-83              o-    17
                       •524            ¦052                          •854              ¦030
      35 15727                 3 93                30 91-56                0- 33
                       •542            ¦057                         •889              •028
      40 154-56                3 64                35    8712              o- 47
                       •562            •055                         •938              ¦024
      45 15175                 3-37               40     82-43             o- 59
                       •584            ¦054                         •988              •021
     50 148-83                 310                45     77-49             o- 69
                       .600            •054                       1-050               .017
     55 145-83                 2-83               50 7224                  o- 77
                       •616            ¦047                       1-124               •Oil
     60 14275                  2-59               55     6662              0- 83
                       •634            •051                       1-252               •001
      65 139-58                234                60 60-36                 0- 82
                       •646            ¦048                       1-412               •013
      70 136-35                210                65     5330              o- 76
                       •656            •048                       1-590               •027
     75 133-07                 1-86               70 45-35                 o- 62
                      ¦670             •048                       1-712               •038
     80 12972                  1-62               75     3679              0- 44
                      •682             •043                       1-732               •037
     So 126-31                 141                80 28-13                 0- 25
                      •700             ¦044                       1-620               •030
     90 122-81                 119                85     2003              o- 10
                      •712            ¦045                        1-482               •018
     95    1 1925              096                90     12-62             o- 01
                      •734            ¦040                        1-322                002
    goo 115-59                 076                95       6 01            0002
                      •758            •041                        1-202               •001
       5 11179               ljO-56            1000       000
                                         Y2                                              USE

3.40   .   On tlie Strengths and Values   of Spirituous Liquors.
                   USE OF THE PRECEDING TABLE.
    This Table is to be entered with the specific gravity next
below that of the spirit at 60°, against which there wi|l be.
found, in the second column, the per-centage if that were
really the specific gravity, and in the third the per-centage to
be subtracted for every unjt that its specific gravity exceeds
the number in the first column.        The fourth column, in
like manner, contains the concentration per cent, ofi the
liquor against whose specific gravity          stands; and the
                                                  it.
fifth, the correction to be applied to the concentration for
every unit which the specific gravity differs from the nearest
in the first column.
                             Example.
   What quantity of water must we add to 42? gallons of                      a
liquor whose specific gravity    883 at 4£°, tp reduce
                                    is                     to           it
proof; and how much proof spirit wijl      matye? it
   Ans. We find        by
                     Table   that the specific gravity of the
                               I
liquor at 60° would be 883 — -456 x 12 = 877& very
nearly.
   We see also by Table If that      the specific gravity at 60*
                                    if
was 875, the per-centage would be 133*07          but that, as
                                                        >                    it
is  8S7|, we must subtract -670 x. 2^, or 1*67, from the
per-centage standing against 875.         The real percentage
of the liquor, therefore, at 60°     133-07 — 1-67 = 131-4;;
                                    is
and 100      131-4 :: 427
             :               561-08; which latter, therefore,
                             :
will be the quantity of proof spirit produced.
   The only remaining question          as to the quantity of
                                          is
                                          ;
water necessary to produce these 561 gallons of proof; For
this we must find, the concentration by T&ble II. Now
the, concentration of spirit of 875 at 60°       1-8.6 per cent,,
                                                        is
and   that of  spirit of  877i  = 1'86  —  -048  X 2J,= 1;7*.
Therefore 31(4 + 1-74, or 33-14 gallons,           the quantity
                                                         is
of water, to be, added to every 100 gallons of thriven spirit
to reduce     to proof, making 141-i gallons in the whole.
              it
  §   40. The two preceding Tables, therefore, as will be seen,
 by  the foregoing example, are, in fact, capable of answerr
ing all the most necessary questions to be resolved          thoseby,
of Mr. Gilpin, and the solution of which cannot, indeed*
                                              i
be obtained from them except         byprocess of some length.
                                          a
Thje calculation of the numbers in -these tables, short a*
they are, was      a work, which occasioned the authors, some
 trouble, bnt which was necessary for the graduation of
 those instruments with which they have, in           great mea
                                                              a
 sure, supplied Europe. They give the per-centage and con
 centration at 60° only, on the supposition that the given
                                                            liquor

                   On the Flax of New Zealand.                3<if
liquor is reduced to and measured at that heat ; and the
computation from them, though most strictly accurate ill
that case, will therefore be liable to some small error in the
extremes of temperature ; they will, however^ be found to
 be sufficiently correct for ali practical purposes.       Should
the legislature change the standard of proofs they will of
course become in a great measure useless as well as the in
struments which are graduated from them, and new ones
must therefore be calculated*
                           4                     ¦              —
LXIIT. Extract of       a Memoir read in the French National
   Institute,   on the Strength of the Flax of New Zealand,
   compared ibilh that of the Filaments of ike Aloe, of Hemp,
   Flax, and Silk.      By C. Labillardiere.
The flax      of New Zealand, which> as is well known, is
obtained from a plant of the family of the asphodela, called
Phormium tenax, holds the first rank among the vegetable
fibres, yet known, proper for the making of ropes:           This
fact was first made known by the celebratea Captain Cook
and his illustrious fellow-navigator Sir Joseph Banks.          It
was afterwards confirmed by Dr. Forster, who gave a good
description of the plant, which he found growing in full
vigour during various excursions in New Zealand, at seve
ral parts of which he touched when he accompanied Cap
tain Cook on his second voyage round the world.           A good
figure  of  the  plant may be seen in the  first volume    of the
account of that voyage, and also in Miller's Icones Plan-
tarum. Dr. Forster has decribed all the parts of fructifica
tion, and illustrated them with figures^ in his work on the
new genera of plants discovered in the South Seas.
   No person, however, has ever yet attempted to ascertain*
how far the fibres of the Phormium tenax are superior iri
strength to those of hemp. This is the object of the present
memoir^ in which I shall compare their strength with that of
the filaments of the aloe, of flax, and of silk.     It is of the
more importance to examine the strength of the flax of New
Zealand, as compared with that of hemp in particular, be
cause it might be substituted for the latter with great ad
vantage in the navy, whereas the other substances are too
scarce and too dear, or much inferior in utility.
   The flax of New Zealand, which I submitted to exami
nation in order to ascertain its strength, was given to me
in exchange for toys by some of the inhabitants of that exten
sive country, with whom we had an intercourse, towards, its
                               Y3                        northern

^42              On Ike Flax   of New Zealand.
northern point, during the voyage undertaken in search of
Perouse; Ventose 22a, 1st year of the republic.      The plant
which produces it is of great use to these savages ; and when
they approached us, the first, articles they exhibited were
large hand/uls of its leaves prepared for various purposes.
Even when at a considerable distance from us they waved
them with a sort of enthusiasm, as if desirous to make
known to us their value, and we soon found that we had
properly understood this kind of language, for they set a
very high price on them when they got on board our vessel.
    For my experiments I preferred these filaments to those
            from the leaves of the same plant raised in green-
  louses, where the fibres certainly do not acquire so much
firoduced
 strength as in the open air ; besides, the season proper for
collecting leaves capable of giving the strongest fibres can
 be known only by experience.
    The apparatus I employed for ascertaining the strength
of the different fibres which I subjected to trial consisted
 of two pieces of wood, ten inches in height, fixed on a
 plank in a vertical direction, at the distance of 6 centime
 ters, or 2-598 inches from each other; they wrere slightly
rounded at the upper extremity, and on the exterior part of
 each was fixed a small iron cylinder, about a millimetre in
 diameter. To these two small cylinders I affixed the fila
ments the strength of which I intended to try. They rested
 on each side on the rounded extremities of the pieces of
 wood already mentioned.      I took the precaution to employ
 fibres of the same diameter, that is -j»n of a millimetre or
 0-0443 of a line, which I verified by means of a microscope
 and a good micrometer, taking care to twist equally the
 part of the filament which I examined, having chosen it
 as far as possible of the same dimensions throughout its
 whole length. I tried the strength of it from every 8 centi
 metres to 8 centimetres, or every 2 inches 11-464 lines,
 which was the distance between the pieces of wood, and I
 suspended from about the middle of         it,   by
                                               means of    awire
 hook well covered with hemp,      a weight which     increased
                                                       I
 until the filament was broken,
 I    took care that it should not be twisted, in order that   I
 might ascertain its whole strength, for without this precau
 tion it  would have broken, as is well known, much sooner.
 Besides, for niany reasons which      would be superfluous to
                                       it
 mention here, should have obtained results much less cer
                J
 tain ;  and
           it   isneedless to observe that, in such cases,     a
 rigorous determination cannot be obtained, but merely an
 approximation,
                                                           After

                 On the Flax    of New Zealand.              343
    After having tried the strength of twelve lengths of
 hemp, as above described, and having divided the sum by
that number, to ascertain the mean strength of each, I
found that it was equal to 1 6£, while that of the fibres of the
Phormium tenax, tried in the same state, was 23-fV' The
filaments of the aloe gave only 7, flax 1 l^, and silk 34; or,
in other words, the fibres of hemp broke only with a weight
of 400-3917 grammes, that of the flax of New Zealand by
590 '5034 grammes, flax by 295-8228 grammes, and silk
by 855-9978 grammes.
    The hemp and flax which I employed for these experi
ments were the first fibres of the best kind produced in the
department of L'Orne.         I  extracted, by maceration and
slight  friction to  detach  the parenchyme, the fibres of the
aloe from a leaf of the Agave fcetida, Linn, or the Fur~
creea gigantea, Vent, which was given to me by my col
league   C. Thouin.
    I must here observe, that at first I took the filaments of a
 diameter much smaller, ^th of a millimetre, or 0-0221 of a
line, and even less ; but I soon observed that it was difficult
to obtain them of that tenuity without a great many in
equalities and other defects, which prevented the exactness
of the results ; besides, the more delicate they were, the
more difficult it was to ascertain their diameter. I paid
attention, therefore, to those only the diameter of which
was -^ of a millimetre.
    It may, therefore, be readily conceived what advantage
 it would be to the navy to have ropes, the strength of
which, were it confined merely to this proportion, would
 be almost one-half greater than that of hemp ropes.         But
 I have no hesitation to assert that it will far exceed it ; for
 the fibres of the flax of New Zealand, according to a series
 of comparative experiments which I made on purpose to
 determine the tension of which they are susceptible before
 they break, are more tensible by one-half than those of
 hemp ; and the principal cause of the diminution of the
 strength of a rope, in proportion to its being more twisted,
 arises in particular from the fibres of which it is composed
 experiencing different degrees of tension, the strength
 and inequality of which are increased by torsion.        But it
 is evident that the more the fibres which enter into a rope
 are susceptible of tension, the less is the difference in the
 distribution of their strength, whence it results that the
 most tensible fibres, caeteris paribus, will always make the
 best ropes.
    It has been observed    that certain kinds  of hemp, with
                                Y 4                         stiff,

 344             On the Flax   of New Zealand.
 stiff, but very strong fibres, are often capable of less resist
 ance, when employed to make ropes, than other kinds, the
 fibres of which are weaker, but softer and more flexible. It
 is besides known, that stiff fibres break by a weak degree
 of torsion, which is resisted by those that have more
 flexibility.
    To ascertain the tensibility of the fibres of the flax of
 New Zealand, I took six of -fg millimetre, or 0*0443 line
 in diameter, and suspended to lengths of 14 centimetres, ox
 5 inches   2-062 lines, a weight which    I gradually increased,
^examining by what quantity they were extended before they
 broke.     The sum of these quantities, divided by the num
 ber of the filaments subjected to trial, gave for quotient the
 mean term of the tensibility of each.         Having subjected
 to the same trial the filaments of the aloe, of hemp, of
 flax, and of silk, the results which I obtained were : for
 the flax 1*1279 millimetres; for the hemp 2*2558; for the
flax of New Zealand 3*3637 ; for the aloe 5*6395 ; and for
 the silk 1 1*2790 : so that the tensibility of flax being equal
 to half that of hemp will be expressed by 1 ; that of the
                         J
 fhormium tenax by 1 ; that of the filaments of the aloe by
 21 ; and that of silk by 5. It is thence seen what prodigious,
 power of resistance is exhibited by a few threads of silk,
 carefully spuu, as their very great tensibility causes them
 all to make an effort nearly equal before they yield to the
 effort made to break them.
    It may not be improper here to remark, that the Chinese,
who make great use of silk strings for their musical instru
ments, have no doubt found that twisting them for that
 purpose hurts their strength, and also the justness of the
 sound, for they are manufactured without twisting; the
threads of which they are composed being merely united by
jncans of an elastic resin : on this account they are, on the
first view, taken for catgut. I have no doubt that if our
artists would attempt this new manufacture, their labours
would be attended with success, especially as they employ
with great dexterity various kinds of elastic resin; but that
Extracted from the Vahc of Madagascar (Vahea elastica),
would be preferable to caoutchouc, which comes from
fJuyana, because the latter has a very dark tint, while the
other inclines very much to a white colour.         It readily dis
solves, as is well known, in ether.          Besides gum clastic
extracted from several other vegetables might also be em
ployed for the same purpose.
    The Phonnium tenax is far from being the only plant of
the division of the monocotyledons, capable of furnishing
                                                         filaments

                 On the Flax  of New Zealand.               343
filaments proper for the uses of rope-making      ; for besides
some    gramineous plants, most of the palms, and all the
species of the Agave, &c. there are many others of this
great division which have not yet been employed, and
which might be turned to advantage, particularly several
kinds of iris, the leaves of which possess very great
strength.
    I must here observe, that in most plants of the division
of the monocotyledons, the leaves produce the filaments,
proper for the purposes of rope-making ; and the disposi
tion of their fibres, which is nearly parallel throughout the
whole length of the leaves, will call to the remembrance
of botanists the excellent memoir of our colleague Desfon-
taines, on the organization of the monocotyledon plants.
On the other hand, in the division of the dicotyledons, the
filaments employed for ropes is obtained from the bark j
and it is well known, that among the great number of sec
tions which these vegetables contain, they are found chiefly
in those of the Thymeli, UrticcB, Malvaceae, Tdi<e* and'
the Amentaceae.      The bark of a shrub of the first section
 (of  a new kind  of Pimelea) produces filaments which I have
seen the inhabitants of Cape Van Dicmcn employ for the
purpose of making ropes.       These savages have so little in
dustry, that they use them without the least preparation.
They even take no advantage of a very excellent kind of
flax which grows spontaneously on their coasts. The crude
bark of the Pimelea abovementioned formed the handles of
some baskets made of reeds, which the women at the hours
pf repast filled with shell-fish, diving in the sea to consi
derable depths, at the risk of being devoured by sharks, or
of being detained at the bottom of the water by marine
plants, some of which, and particularly the Ficus pyriferust
^re several hundreds of feet in length.
    They employed this bark also for fastening round their
bodies the skin of the kangaroo, the only clothing worn bf»
the best dressed of these savages ; for several of them were
entirely naked, though exposed to severe cold in the lati
tude of 44° South, and by a very strange kind of whim this
Vestment served only to cover the shoulders.
    The Phormium tenax will succeed perfectly in France, for
it is found in New Zealand from lat. 34° to lat. 47° South,
and is exposed there to very severe frosts in the most
southern part of that very large country.     Moist places are
better suited to it than dry, and the same may be said of
most of the other Lilavcei. It would thrive well in many of
Jhe marshy districts, which at present are considered as use
                                                           less j

   346               On the   Flax of New Zealand.
  less;    besides,   it is a lively plant, and will require very
  little  care.    It may readily be conceived what advantages
  must result from the culture of this valuable plant, and
  particularly to the navy, as it will lighten in a very consi
  derable degree the lading of our vessels, for the weight of
 the rigging in a 74-gun ship is estimated at i 7 14*005
 myriagramuies, or 68000 pounds. The use of the flax of
 New Holland would lessen this weight more than one-half;
 and also that of the other ropes, which are above the line
 of flotation ; and therefore the vessel would be capable of
 taking in a much greater quantity of provisions.             Besides,
 it is well known that the less the diameter of the ropes
 above the line of flotation, the less will be the lee-way j
 and, therefore, these new ropes will contribute to accelerate
 the progress of ships of war, which will still be increased
 by the lightening they will experience wheri loaded with a
 less weight than usual.           These ropes being smaller and
 lighter    than  those   made   with   hemp, fewer hands will be
 required     to manage    them  ; so  that,  if introduced, ships will
 need    fewer   men   than  those  rigged   with   hemp.
     It is evident also that fibres so strong and so pliable will
 be proper for the fabrication of different kinds of cloth, and
may be substituted with advantage in our manufactories for
 hemp and even flax. They will no doubt retain in the loom
 that superiority which they have in strength over hemp.
Their whiteness and silky appearance give reason to hope
that cloth made of them will exceed in beauty that manu
factured from flax.
     All the dresses which we purchased from the savages of
New Zealand were made from the fibres of their flax. To
cords of the same substance they had attached different or
naments, among which were pieces of human bones, and
which were suspended on their breast as a kind of trophy.
They seemed to attach great value to them, and were very
unwilling to part with them.
     Their fishing-lines were formed of two filaments twisted
together ; but their nets were made from the leaves of a
plant separated into filaments, without any other prepara
tion. As their nets are of prodigious extent, for the pur
pose of fishing at a great distance from the coast, these
savages do not make them of ropes, because this labour
would require much time, and they besides find that their
flax employed in this manner is sufficient.
     All the piroguas which approached us had on board men
armed for the most part with stones, some of them of gra
nite, and others of serpentine, which they had attached to
                                                                  their

            Geological Delineation       of South America.          347
their wrists with cords of the Plutrmium tenax ; but I must
observe that these were only defensive weapons, for they
did every thing in their power to engage our confidence,
and soon consented           to exchange these weapons for our
hatchets, and for other instruments of iron, on which these
warlike people set great value.
    It follows from the experiments, the results of which               I
have here given, 1st, that the strength of the fibres of the
aloe being equal to 7 ; that of flax is represented by 1             If ;
that of hemp by 16J; that of the flax of New Zealand by
23-A-, and that of silk by 34. But the quantity they stretch
before they break is in another proportion ; for that of the
filaments of the aloe being equal to 2^; that of flax is
only ^ ; that of hemp 1 ; that of the flax of New Zealand
J-J ; and that of silk 5. 2d, That great advantages will re
sult from the cultivation of the New Zealand flax in France,
where it will thrive exceedingly well.
LXIV.       Sketch   of  a Geological Delineation      of South Ame
               rica.    By F. A. Von Humboldt *.
Oince      I sent to Madrid the two first sketches of a geolo-
        delineation of South America, from the Caraccas and
   Jueva Valencia, I have travelled 1 200 miles, and described
fical
a square between Caribe, Portocabello, Pimichin, and Es
meralda, a space comprehending above 59000 square miles,
for I am not acquainted with the land between the moun
 tain Parea and Portocabello, and between the northern
 coast and the valley of the Black river.           In consequence of
 the great circumference of this district, I must content my
 self with delineating it in a general manner, and to avoid
 details, with describing the construction of the earth, the
 declivity of the land, the direction and inclination of the
mountains, their relative ages, their similarity with the
 formation of those in Europe. These are the circumstances
most necessary to be known in this science.                  We must
 proceed    in mineralogy     as  in  geography ;   we are   acquainted
 with stones, but not with mountains ; we know the mate
 rials, but we are ignorant of the whole of which they form
component parts.          I wish I may be able, amidst the variety
    * This sketch is An extract
                                    from a paper transmitted by M. Von
 Humboldt from §ourh America, together with a geological collection, to
 the directors of the cabinet of natural history at Madrid.   It was sent
also by M. Von Humboldt to Dclimcthciic, and inserted by him in the
          de Physique, r-A. 53. p. 30.
Journal
                                                                       of

348         Geological Delineation  of South America.
of   the objects   which occupy my attention during my tra*
vels,    to throw any light on the structure of the earth.
The laborious journeys which, for eight years, I have made
through Europe, had no other object ; and if         I  have the
I;ood   Fortune  to return to Europe,  and  to  recover  my geo
 logical manuscripts which I left behind me in France and
Germany, I shall venture to give a sketch of the structure
of the earth. What I have long said, that the direction
and inclination,      the rising and .falling of the primitive
strata, the angles which they form, with the meridian of
the place, and with the axi3 of the earth, are independent
of the direction and depression of the mountains ; that they
depend on laws, and that they observe a general parallelism
which can be founded only m the motion and rotation of
the earth. What Freiesleben, Von Buch and Gruner have
proved better than I will be found confirmed, namely, that
the succession of the alluvial strata, which was considered
as a peculiarity of certain provinces, such as Thuringia and
Derbyshire, takes place generally, and that there appears
an identity in the order oi the strata (see Plate IX.) ; from
which there is reason to conclude that the same deposition
has been effected at the same time over the whole surface of
the earth. All these ideas are of the greatest importance,
not only to the philosopher, who endeavours to elevate
himself to general principles, but also to the miner, who
must conceive in his mind what he has not before his eyes,
and guide himself by analogy deduced from actual ex
perience.
    Before I describe the situation of the mountains which      I
have observed from the coast to the province of Venezuela,
I  shall give a general view of the form of this continent.
Unfortunately there are no early observations to serve as a
ground for this description.      For half a century past many
accidental observations respecting this land have been col
lected, but not a single idea relating to its geology has been
made known. The great genius of Condamine, the zeal
of Don George Juan de Ulloa, would certainly not have
left us in the dark on this subject, had mineralogy been
more cultivated at the time when they wrote.             All that
could then be done was to measure, and to take levels.        As
they    were   employed   on the high cordillera  of the  Andes,
which extends north and south from £itara, as far as Cape
Pilar, and beheld with wonder the immense height of the
mountains, they forgot that South America exhibits other
cordilleras, which extend east and west parallel to the
equator, and which, on account of their height, deserve as
         •                                                 much

           Geological Delineation  of South America.      34§
much the attention of naturalists as the Carpathians, Cau
casus, the Alps of the Valais, and the Pyrenees. The
whole immense tract ori the west side of the Andes, which
extends obliquely to the coast of Guiana and Brasil, is de
scribed as a low plain, exposed to the inundation of the
rivers. As only a few Franciscan missionaries and a few
soldiers have been able to penetrate over the cataracts to
Rio Negro, the inhabitants of the coast of Caracas ima
gine that the immense plains (the Llanos de Calabozo, del
Guarico, and de Apure) which they see to the south, be
yond the valleys of Aragua, extend without interruption to
the Pampas of Buenos-Ayres, and to the country of the
Patagonians ; but the extent of these plains is far from
being so great ; they are not uninterrupted plains, they are
rather phenomena of the same kind as those presented by
Canada and Yucatan, the Island of St. Domingo, the north?
of Sierra de St. Martha, the province of Barcelona, and the
land between Monte-Video and Mendoza, New Holland,
the eastern part of Hungary, and the country of Hanover.
They are separated from each other by the cordilleras, and'
are as far from lying in the same plane as the desarts of
 Africa, and the steppes of Tartary, which rise by grada
 tions, according to the distance from the sea coast.
    When one considers the irruptions which the North Sea,
 the Mediterranean j he. have made into the old world, the
 direction of its cordilleras appears not to be very different
from that of those in the new world, as most naturalists
 have asserted.    We are acquainted also with the traces of
 several high chains of mountains which extend from north
 to south, and run out from those which extend east and:
 west.     The garnet and micaceous schistus of' Norway,
 Scotland, Wales, Brittany, the province of Gallicia, Alem-
 on Teneriffj)   the upper part of Guinea, Congo, and the-
 Table Mountain,     as also the original mountains of Oren-
  burg, Caucasus, Lebanon, of Abyssinia "and Madagascar,
  seem at first to have formed nothing else than two large
  cordilleras parallel to the meridian.
     In the new world these cordilleras run parallel to the
  meridian from Cape Pilar to the north of California beyond'
  Nootka and Prince William's sound towards the Aleganhey
  mountains, which were discovered in 1792 by Mr. Stewart
  on his journey to the sources of the Missoury, the northern
  part of the Andes, which is inhabited by Indians nearly as
  much civilized as the Peruvians were fifteen hundred years
  ago*     From this cordillera proceed ramifications of the
                                                      original

    850       Geological Delineation of  South America.
   Original mountains which extend from west to east.      With
   those of North America I am not acquainted, but it appears
   that some exist in Canada under the latitude of 50° and
   42° north latitude, as in the destroyed continent of the
  Gulph of Mexico under 19° and 22°, as is proved by the
  mountains of Cuba and Saint Domingo. In South Ame
  rica there are three chains of original mountains which run
  parallel to the equator : the chain of the coast under 9° and
   10°; that chain which is in the great cataracts of Autures
   (in latitude 5° 39') is between latitude 3° and 7° ; and that
  in Maipure in 5° 12' 50", which I therefore call the chain
  of the cataracts or that of Parime, and the chain of Che-
  quitos under 15° and 20° south latitude.
      These chains in the old continent on this side of the
  western ocean can be traced, and it is seen how the original
  mountains of Fernambouc, Minas, La Bahia, and Janeiro,
  correspond, under the same latitude, to those of Congo, as
 the immense plains near the river Amazon lie opposite to
  the plains of Lower Guinea, the cordillera of the cataracts
 opposite to those of Upper Guinea, and the Llanos of the
 Mississippi, since the irruption of the Gulph of Mexico, a
 property of the sea, opposite to the Desart of Serah. This
 view will appear to be less hazarded when one reflects in
 what manner the old continent has been separated from the
 new one by the force of the water. The form of the coasts,
 and the salient and re-entering angles of America, Africa,
 and Europe, are a sufficient proof of this catastrophe.   What
 we call the Atlantic ocean is nothing else than a valley
 scooped out by the sea.       The pyramidal form of all the
 continents with their summits turned southwards, the great
 flattening of the earth at the south pole, and other pheno
 mena, observed by Dr. Forster, seem to show that the in
 flux of the water was from the south.         On the coast of
Brasil, from Rio Janiero to Fernambouc, it found resist
 ance, and taking a direction from the latitude of 50° north
towards the north-east, where it scooped out the Gulf of
Guinea near Loango Benin and Mine, it was obliged by
the mountains of Upper Guinea to direct itself north-west,
and sepaTatedjto the latitude of 23° norlh,the coast of Gui
nea from Mexico and Florida.        The force of the waters was
still broken by the cordillera of the United States of Ame
rica, and once more turned towards the north-cast, and
seems to have spared less the western coast of Europe than
the northern of America. The least breadth of this channel
is at the Brasils and Greenland ; but, agreeably to the geo
graphical history of plants and animals^it seems to have
                                                           been

           Geological Delineation  of South America.      351
been formed at a time when the organic creation had not
been properly expanded.       It would be of great importance
to geology if a sea voyage were undertaken, at the expense
of some government, to examine the rising and depression
and the relative situation of the mountains to the salient
and re-entering angles of America and Africa. The same
aaalogy would be found here as is observed in the English
Channel, in the Sound, the Straits of Gibraltar, and the
Hellespont ; small creeks which are as new as the secondary
 formation of the chalk rocks of Jura, of Pappenheim, La
Mancha, Marseilles, Derbyshire, and Suez, which have all
 been produced at the same time by precipitation.
     Of the three cordilleras of primitive mountains which
 traverse South America from west to east, the most north-
 era, that of Venezuela, is the highest, but the narrowest.
 The real chain of the Andes extends from the large plain
of Quito, through Popayan and Choco, to the western side
.of the river Atrato (or Rio San Juan), between the valley
 of Tatabe, in the provinces of Zitara and Biruguete, to
 wards the isthmus, where it forms a mountainous district
 of not more than two or three hundred toises in height on
 the bank of the Chagre.      From these Andes arises the Cor
 dillera on the coast of Venezuela.       Rows of mountains
 higher, but forming groups less regular, extend on the
  east side of the Rio Atrato under the name of the Sierra de
 Abibe and the Montes de Cauca, through the high savan
 nahs of Jolu towards Magdalen river and the province of
 St. Martha. The cordillera of the coast contracts itself like
  that of the Gulph of Mexico, approaches nearer to Cape
  Vela, and then proceeds first rrom south-south-west to
  north-north-east, and then from west to east to the ridge
  of Paria, or rather to the Punta de la Galera in the Island
  of Trinidad.     Its greatest height is found at that place
  where it has the name of Sierra de Nevada de St. Martha in
  latitude 10° s', and of Sierra Nevada de Merida in latitude
  8° 30' ; the former is about 5000 the latter 5400 Spanish
  ells (varas), or 2350 toises in height.    The Paramo de la
  Rosa and de Macuchi, and also tiie mountain of Merida,
  are continually covered with snow : boiling water (with
  hydrogenated sulphur) issues from their sides, and they
  exceed in height the Peak of TenerifF, and are, perhaps,
  equal to Mont Blanc, which has been more accurately mea
  sured. These colossal masses and St. Martha stand almost
  insulated, being surrounded by few high ridges.      To the
  west of Santa Fe, or as far as the Sierra of Zuindiu, no
  *now-clad peaks are seen, and the Sierra Nevada de Merida
                                             -          stands

 $52       Geotogical Delineation  of South Ameficd.
 Stands at the edge of the  plain of Caracas, \vhich is scarcely
 forty toises above the level of the sea.  Mont Blanc, which
 terminates the hisjh ridge    of the Alps, exhibits the same
                    The altitude of the highest mountains,
   owever, is so Very small in proportion to the magnitude
 Ehaenomenon.
of  the earth that it would appear that very small local cause's
 ought to have accumulated more matter in these points.
That part of the cordillera of the coast which lies to the
 west of Maracaybo-Sees, and joins the Andes, has large
valleys extending from north to south, such as that of Mag-
dalena, of Cauca, of Saint George, of Sinu, and Atrato*
They are very long and narrow, but covered with wood.
    On the other hand, that part of the cordillera which ex
 tends from Merida to Trinidad incloses three valleys lying
cast and west, which show by certain signs, like Bohemia,
 or th« Haslithal of Swisserland, that they have formerly
been lakes the water of which has evaporated or run off by
opening for itself a passage.     These three valleys are in
closed by the two parallel rows of mountains into which
the cordillera of the cbast divides itself, from Cape Vela to
Cape Codera ; the northern row is a continuation of Saint
Martha, the southern a prolongation of Sierra Nevada de
Merida. The first extends through Burburuta, Rincon del
Diablo; through the Sierras de Mariara, the mountain
Aguasnegras, Monte de Arila, and the Silla de Caracas, to
Gape Codera.' The second from three tb four miles more
tb the south extends through Guigui, La Palma, the high
summits of Guairaima, Tiara, Guiripa, and the Savana de
Ocumare, as far as the mouths of the Tuy. These two
chains unite with two arms which run from north to south,
like, as it were, dykes, by which these old lakes were con
fined within their boundaries. These dykes are, on the west
the mountains of Carora, Tonto, Saint Maria, Saint Phi
lips, and Aroa ; they separate the Llanos de Monai from
the valleys of Aragtia : on the east they are the naked sum
mits of Los Teques, Coquiza, Buena Vista, and the Altos
de S. Pedro, by which the valley of Aragua or the sources
of the Tuy (for there is only one valley between the bottom
of Coquiza or the Hacienda de Brisenno to Valencia) front
the valley of Caracas. On the east from Cape Codera the
greater part of the cordillera of the coast of Venezuela was
oestroyed    and laid under water by the great catastrophe
Which formed the Gulph of Mexico. The rest of it is di
stinguished in the high mountain peaks of the Island of
Margaretha (Macanao and the VaHe S. Juan) -and in the
jprdulera of the Isthmus of Araya, which contains the
         5                                          micaceous

              Geological Delineation      of South America.      353
  micaceous schistous mountains of Maniguares, Chuparipari,
   Distilador, Cerro-Grande, the mountain of St. Joseph and of
   Paria : the remainder I have accurately examined, and found
  in them the same structure, the same direction, and the same
  inclination of the strata.       The. three hollows, or valleys of
  Caracas, Aragua, and Monai, are remarkable on this ac
  count, that the level of them is above the surface of the
  sea ; they become lower by gradations, and the highest step
  is the eastern, which may serve as a proof that they were
  formed at an earlier period than the Llanos, whose decli
 vity proceeds from east to west, like the whole continent
 of South America.           By repeated barometric measurement
 I  found the height or the valleys of Caracas to be 416
 toises, of Aragua 212 toises, above the surface of the sea ;
  the Llanos of Monai, the western bason, appears to have
 an elevation of no more than 80 or 100 toises.           The valley
 of Caracas has once been a lake, which formed for itself
 an efflux through the Cjuebrada de Tipe, Catia, and Rio
 Mamon ; the bason of Aragua appears, on the other hand,
 to have become dry by gradual evaporation ; for the remains
 of the old water (loaded with muriate of lime) are still seen
 in the lake of Valencia, which becomes less every year, and
 discovers islands which are known under the name of Apa-
 recidas. The height of the cordillera of the coast is com
 monly from 600 to 800 toises ; the highest peaks, Sierra
 de Nevada de Merida and the Silla de Caracas, (to which
 we undertook a laborious journey with our instruments)
 are 2350 and 1316 toises in height.            To the west they al
 ways become lower, and the height of Cape Codera is only
  176 toises.      The Macanao, on the island Margaretha,
 which I measured trigonometrically, is not more in height
than 342 toises ; but this speedy depression takes place only
 in the primitive mountains of the cordillera.               On the
eastern coast secondary accumulations of lime rise from
 Cape Unare to a more considerable height than the gneis
and micaceous schistus ; these calcareous rocks, which are
covered      with   sandstone of a calcareous base, and which
accompany        the  cordillera of the coast in its southern decli
vity,    are  very  low  on the side towards Cura, but rise in a
mass towards the eastern extremity of the continent.
     In Bergantin theyare       702 toises high, in Coccollard 392,
in Cucurucho du Tuminiquiri             (the highest summits of the
province of Cumana) 976 toises, and the pyramid of the
Guacharo rises- above 820 toises : from Cape Unare they
form a separate ridge of mountains, in which the original
ridge totally disappears ; they are connected also with the
     VOL.   XVII.    No. 68.          Z                   micaceous

 354         Geological Delineation  of South America.
 micaceous schistous Cordillera of Maniquare and Paria only
 by the Cerro de Mcapire, which, analogous to the branches
  of Torito and los Teques, which separate the basons of
  Monai, Aragua, and Caracas, extends north and south
  from Guacharo and Catouaro, to the mountain Paria, and
  separates the valley of Cariaco (the dried up bank of the
  Gulph of Cariaco) from the valley of St. Boniface, whicli
  formerly belonged to the Golfo Triste.           It will be seen
  hereafter, that the accumulation of calcareous formation
  on the eastern part of the coast of this country seems to
  have been mot e exposed to earthquakes ; and that the Cerro
  de Meapire, at the time of the irruption of the Gulph of
  Cariaco, and the Golfo Triste, prevented the water from
  converting the land of Araya and the ridge of Paria into an
  island.
     The declivity of the Cordillera of the coast of Venezuela
  is gentler towards the south than towards the north, which >
  is particularly striking when one descends from the heights
  of Guigue, through St. Juan, Parapara, and Ortiz towards
  the Mera dc Paja, which belongs to the great Llano de
  Calabozo.      The northern declivity is every where very
  steep, and there is scarcely found, Mont Blanc excepted,
  above Courmayeur, a more frighful ptecipice than the per
   pendicular wail of Silla de Caracas, beyond Caravalledo,
  which rises to the height of 1300 toises. An accurate mea
  surement of this wall of rock was of great importance to
  navigators, as they could find its distance from the coast
   only by taking the angle of its elevation : its longitude,
                             '
   therefore, of Co0 37' 32 west from Paris, will enable them
  to discover it.
      The phenoinuicn of a more gentle declivity towards the
   south seems to contradict the observations made in other
  Cordilleras ol the earth, as it is asserted that they all decline
   more abruptly towards the south and west. This contra
  diction, hov. ever, is only apparent as the northern part of
  the cordillera, during the great catastrophe which produced
  the Gulph of Mexico, was torn away by the force of the
. water : and therefore    the northern declivity might at that
  time be gwitlcr than the southern.        •. .
      If the form of the coast be considered, it appears to be
  pretty regularly indented. The headlands of Tres Puntas,
   Codera, S. Roman, and Cbichibacoa, on the west, from
   Cabo dcla Vela, form a row of promontories, the western
  of which runs more to the. north than the eastern.        To the
   windward of each of these capes a creek has been formed;
  and one cannot help seeing, in this singular formation, the
                                                    '
                                                .•           action

             Geological Delineation  of South America.       355
  action of the tropical currents, which may be called the
  currents of the earth's rotation ; an action which shows it
  self also in the direction of the coast from Cuba, St. Do
  mingo, Porto Rico, Yucatan, and Honduras, as in the se
  ries of the windward islands Grenada, Orchila, Rocca, Aves,
  Buenos-Ayres, Curapoa, and Aruba, the ruins of the cor-
  dillera from Cape Chichibacoa, which are all parallel to
  the equator. It was this headland of Chichibacoa, not
  withstanding its inconsiderable height, which by its resist
  ance to the influx, preserved the kingdom of New Grenada
 from losing so much land as the general government of
  Caracas.
     The second original cordillera of South America, which
 I have called the cordillera of the Cataracts of Orinoco, is
 yet very little known.     During the journey which we made
 on the Black River, to the borders of the Great Bara, we
 travelled more than 200 leagues, first from north to south,
 from Cerro de Uruana to Atabapo and Tuamini ; then from
 west to east, from the mouths of the Ventuari to Vulcan
 de Duida, which I have found to be in latitude 3° 13' 26",
and longitude 60° 34' l" west from Paris.        Since the jour
 ney   of  Messrs. Ituriaga  and  Solano,  a passage over these
 cordilleras, which may be called also Parima or Dorado
  (golden) , a name which has occasioned so much misfortune
 in America, and so much ridicule in Europe, has been pos
 sible ; but as all the European settlements on the Alto
 Orinoco, and the Rio Negro (Black River), contain at
 this time no more than 400 Indian families, and as the
way from Esmeralde to Erevato and Caura has been totally
 lost, our researches in a land so little civilized, presented
 more difficulties than Condamine experienced during his
tedious navigation on the river Amazon, the banks of which
for many years have been inhabited.
     The cordillera of the Cataracts or of Parima separates
 itself from the Andes of Quito and Popayan, in the longi
tude of from 3° to 6°.      It extends from west to east from
Paramo de Tuquillo and St. Martin, or the sources of the
Guaviare, the theatre of the gallant deeds of Philip de Urre,
and the old residence of the Omeguas, through Morocote,
Piramena, and Macuco, stretching through the country of
the Indians of Guajibos, Sagi, Dagueres, and Poigravcs,
according to the direction of the great rivers Meta, Vichada,
Zama, Guaviare, and Ymerida, in the longitude of 70° west
from Paris, between the high summits of Uniama and Cu-
navami.      They form the Raudals of Atures and Maypur6,
tremendous waterfalls, which afford the only passage by
                               Z2                         which

35fl      Geological Delineation of South America.
which one can penetrate into the interior of the land in the
valley of the River Amazons.
   These cordilleras of the Cataracts rise from the longitude
of 70°, and spread out in such a manner that they compre
hend the whole immense tract of country between the rivers
Cam a, Erevato, Cavony, Paraguamusi, Ventuari, Jao, Pa-
damo, and Manarichej and then ascend south towards the
sources of the Pasimona, Cachcvayneris, and Cababury,
towards the forests, where the l'ortugueze, penetrating into
the Spanish district, collect the best sarsaparilla known
(Smilax Sarsaparilla, Linn.). In this district the cordilleras
of the Cataracts are above 120 miles in breadth. Their
continuation more towards the east, between the longitude
of 68° and 60° west from Paris is little known.        I pro
ceeded with astronomical instruments only, as far as Rio
Guapo, which discharges itself into the Orinoco, opposite
the Cerro de la Cauchlla, in longitude 68° 33' west from
Paris. The Indians of Catarapeni and Maquiritares, who
reside, in the small mission of Esmeraldc came fifteen miles
further cast over the mountains Guanaja and Yamariquiu
to the Canno Chiguire ; but neither the Europeans, nor In
 dians with whom Europeans have had any intercourse, are
acquainted with this source of the Orinoco, which is here
called Canno Paragua, and is scarcely 150 or 200 toises in
breadth, whereas at Boca de Apure, m latitude 7° 32' 20",
it is 4632 toises, as I myself found. The wildness of the
 Indians of Guaicas, who are only four feet in height, but
 who are a verv white and warlike people, and particularly the
savage state of the Guajaribos, greater men-eaters than any
of the other nations which we visited, prevent any one from
penetrating over the small cataracts (Raudal de Guajaribos)
east from Chiguire, unless a military expedition were un
dertaken on purpose.        But by the wonderful journey
undertaken by D. Antonio Santos, who married Onotho,
and who dressed sometimes as a Carib, and sometimes as
a Macacy, whose languages he spoke, from Orinoco (the
 mouth of the Ria Caroms) to the small lake Parima and
the river Amazon, we have obtained information respect
ing the continuation of the Cordillera of the Cataracts.
 Under the latitude of from 4° to 5° and longitude 63°, it
becomes so narrow that it is scarcely 60 miles in breadth.
 It assumes here the name of Cerrama de Cjuiiniropaca and
 Facaraimo, and forms a chain of not very high ridges, by
 which the waters were divided. The water of the northern
declivity, the Nooapray, Paraguamuci, Benaino, and Ma-
 zurini, now towards the Orinoco and Rio Esquibo; the
                                                        waters

           Apparatus  for preparing Fluoric Acid, &c.        357
waters of the southern, the Rio Cururicana, Parime, Madari,
and Mao, pour themselves into the River Amazon.            Some
degrees further towards the east, the cordillera again extends
in Dreadth as it ascends southwards towards the Canno Pa-
rara along the Mao.       It is here that the Dutch give to the
Cerro d Ucuamo, the magnificent name of the Gold-
Mountain, or Dorado,       because it consists of a very shining
 micaceous schistus, a fossil which has brought into celebrity
the small island of Ypamucena in the lake of Parima.
     On the east from Rio Esquibo, or on the other side of
 the land of the Aturajo Indians the cordillera turns south
east as it unites with the garnet mountains of the Dutch
and French Guiana, which are inhabited by a mixture of
Negroes and Caribs, and give an origin to the rivers Ber-
 bice, Surinam, Marony, Aprouague, and Oyapdck.              The
 last mentioned ridge of mountains extends very much : its
gneis appears at Baxo Orinoco, in latitude 8° 20', between
 the mouths of the Upata and Acquire, and in latitude
 2° 14' on the north side of the river Amazon, in the moun
 tains of Fripoupon and Maya.                                  •
      Such is the form of the great cordillcras of the Cataracts,
 which are inhabited by a great number of uncivilized
  savages, little known to the Europeans.       I must here ob
 serve, that in this description I have followed my own
 observations only, and the notices we dbtained from the
  Indians, as also the observations of D. Antonio Santos^and
 the companions of his journey, who dictated             to their
  friends. The maps of this part of the continent are en
  tirely false, and the map added to the history of the Evir-
  coco by P. Caulin, a work in other respects meritorious, is
  by our last observations some degrees more wrong in longi
  tude and latitude than the map published thirtv years be
  fore by d'Anville.    All the Indian names in it afso are mu
  tilated, and mountains and rivers are delineated where none
  exist.; a defect the more pardonable as the author was never
  beyond the waterfalls of Orinoco, nor at the Rio Negro.
                         [To   be continued.]
  LXV. Description of Mr. Richahd Knight's, Apparatus
     for preparing Fluoric Acid, and for Etching on Glass,
   JL he fluoric acid, as every chemist knows, has the pro
  perty of dissolving and volatilizing silex ; therefore vessels
  made of. glass, which consists chiefly of silex, cannot be
  conveniently employed to prepare or retain this acid. The
                                Z 3                     common

    358            apparatus         for preparing Fluoric Acid, &fc.
     common method of preparing it is by employing a leaden
     retort into which is put a quantity of fluor spar in powder,
     and an equal or a greater quantity of sulphuric acid : a
    gentle heal is then applied, and a gas comes over, which
     may be received in the usual manner into jars standing over
    mercury.      This gas is the fluoric acid. Or the gas may be
    made to pass into a receiver containing water ; in which
    case the acid is obtained dissolved in the water.
        Mr. Knight's apparatus consists of a leaden body A,
    fig. 1. (Plate VIII.) furnished with a wide groove, aa, round
    its mouth.      The body A is fitted into the mouth of an
    other vessel B, into which is put water, the medium through
    which the heat is applied to the contents of A. To the
    body A is fitted a cover C, which rests on the outer edge
    of the srroove aa, and also enters into the groove, which is
    filled with water when the apparatus is to be used..
        If fluor spar in powder be put into A, sulphuric acid be
    poured over         and heat be applied to the vessel B, the
                            it,
    water therein will transmit heat to the materials and the
    gas will ascend into the head C, where              will be absorbed
                                                                      it
    by the water in the groove aa, and form liquid fluoric acid.
    If piece of glass, covered with wax, or any proper etching-
      a
    ground on which            design has been traced with
                                     a                               sharp             a
    point,   be exposed     in  the head       to the action of the acid
                                                           C
    gas, the parts of the glass that have been laid bare will be
    corroded in the same way as copper                  aquafortis when
                                                                 is   by
    etched. In this case the fluoric acid always leaves the sur
    face     has acted upon dull and opake. When liquid fluoric
          is it
    acid     employed instead of the gas, the bottoms of the lines
    arc transparent.
        For etching on glass, however, with the gas, the follow
    ing modification of Mr. Knight's apparatus seems preferable
    to the former — The materials are to be put into the leaden
                            :
    vessel A, fig.        which has
                                2,         cover fitted into
                                                       a
                                                                   groove          a
    (filled  with   water  when    made    use   of), and     pipe in the      a
    cover      which
                  by          connected with another leaden vessel D
                                by a it
    (furnished   with     cover),   into which the glass intended to
    be acted upon         the acid   is   put resting on
                                                   is        strip of lead a
    bent into any form that may not interfere with the design
    on the glass.     In this ca=o, as in the former apparatus, the
    vessel   A    to be heated
                       is             water   by an exterior vessel.
                                                            in
        Instead of drawing with          sharp point through an etch
                                                   a
    ing-ground when the gas            to be employed, another pro
                                               is
    cess may be followed —With            : hair pencil apply
                                                        a          proper          a
\   varnish to those parts of the glass which are wished to be
    defended from the action of the acid                   few moments
                                                                 :    in   a
                                                                                           the

           Description   nf the Vulture of Pondicherry.            359
 the exposed surface will become comparatively dull; and on
 removing the varnish from the other parts they will ap
 pear to have undergone some process by which they have
 received a higher polish than glass usually exhibits : for the
 parts acted upon, though realTy dulled a little, will still ap
 pear transparent if the process has not been carried too far.
 LXVI.     Description    of   the     Vulture   of Pondicherry.   By
                         F.   M. Daudin *.
It is not      only easy to separate the vultures from other
 birds of prey because they have the head or neck bare of
 feathers, but they may be subdivided also into several sec
 tions, as some of them have caruncles while others are un
 provided with them.
    The most remarkable species are met with among those
 of the first section, but the one which hitherto seems most
 worthy of the attention of ornithologists is the Oricou vul
 ture, discovered by Levaillant in Africa ; for the aperture of
 its ears is surrounded by a membranous caruncle, four lines
in height, nearly similar to an external ear, and which de
scends downwards on each side of the neck. The head and
neck of this bird, very well preserved, may be seen in Le-
vaillant's collection.
    Sonnerat also discovered at Pondicherry another vulture
so similar to the oricou in size, dimensions, and principal
characters,    that several naturalists have been of opinion
that this vulture of Bengal might be the female of the ori
cou, for on each side of the neck and a little below the ear
it has a membranous caruncle turned downwards ; but as
these two vultures exhibit other differences more striking I
have thought it proper to consider these birds as two kin
dred species   f.
   The vulture of Pondicherry   differs from the oricou de
scribed by Levaillant,   1st, By its caruncles, which are
placed below the ear : 2d, By its face, furnished with stiff
hairs, which surround the tympanum, cover the cheeks,
and are proportionably longer than on the neck : 3d, By its
breast, covered with ash-coloured silvery down, short and
compact; 4th, by the white downy cravat placed on each side
   * From Aimala Ju Milium National et'Hhto/rr Nawrellt, No.
                                                                4.
   t Levaillant, Histoirc Naturcllc des Oiseaux d'Afnuue,  pi.
                                                             9.  Dau
din, Traitd d'Ornithologie,  vol.ii. pi. 10.   Vautour Oricou \VulluT
awi ularis), p. 11. Vautour de Pondicherry (Pultur ponticerianus).
                                 Z4                                of

 3(50     Twelfth Communication from Dr. Thornton,
 of  the lower part of the neck : 5th, By the plumes of the
 whole lower part of the body, which are very short, and
 not long and unravelled as in the oricou.
    The rest of the plumage is of a very dark colour ; the bill
 and feet are yellow.
    The individual from which the annexed engraving was
                X.) is now in the National
 taken (Plate                                     Museum at Paris,
and was found in India by Masse, the           naturalist.     The de
scription published by Sonnerat is completely applicable
to the individual found by Masse ; but the figure is so in
correct that Mauduyt did not venture to mention the ca
runcles of the neck in his Dictionnaire Ornithologique.
LXVII.       Twelfth Communication from Dr.           Thornton,        on
                      Pneumatic Medicine.
                         To  Mr.   Tilloch.
       SIR                                         No.  i, Hinde-street,
I
                                                    'Manchester-tquarc.
    am happy to inform the philosophic world that the pneu
matic practice is at this time advancing. I am credibly inform
e that Dr. Baillie and Dr. Reynolds, physicians equally dis
ed
tinguished for science and humanity, have each ordered the
administration of the vital air. Several other practitioners
are following the same liberal course ; and it is probable that
this century will see the completion of my ardent wishes ;
namely, the establishment of the virtues of the aerial re
medies.
        The First Case   of the Application of Vital Air.
                        To Dr. Thornton.
                                        Conduit-Street, Jan.   it,  .804.
      DEAR SIR,
    In compliance with your request, I sit down to state to
you the case of Mrs. L          , the lady of            L       , Esq.
living near Guildford. This lady laboured under a decline,
at a time when her husband was attending a course of Dr.
                                                                     lec
Priestley's discoveries, nearly thirty years ago, at my
ture-rooms, then in George-Street,' Hanover-Square,                soon
after those discoveries were made.          The atrophv kept on
increasing for some time after, till       her  state made an emi
nent physician of Guildford desire       Mr.   L         "  to prepare
for the worst." This alarm        induced    him   to  ask  his physi
cian,   "  if some of those newly       discovered    airs might      not
he usefully employed in        her  case."       His   answer      was   :
" Any thing might be tried, but he feared all would be to
                                                                       no

                      On "Pneumatic          Medicine.                          361
no manner of purpose."               Mr. L  immediately set out
for London, and requested            I
                                 would fit up an apparatus for
Mrs. L        , to try the effects of the dephlogisticated air,
as it was then called.     I immediately accompanied him to
the country.     Here I ought to blush, and apologize to the
faculty, for having dared to employ a new medicine with
out possessing any pathological knowledge : but the case
was desperate.    An agonizing husband, determined to try
every expedient to save a beloved wife, could not fail to
rouse the utmost efforts of humanity ; and the vital air ap
peared to me not unlikely to produce relief, (if not a cure,)
as I had often myself breathed it mixed with common air,
and found it very reviving.      I therefore put a table-spoon
ful of minium (red lead) into a saucer, and poured upon it
as much vitriolic acid as would moisten                    it,
                                                   and placed                    it
about yard distant from the patient, that as the gas rose
          a
it might be much diluted with the common air, so as not
to irritate the lungs.    Finding no ill effects to arise,     re      I
peated   the same  dose for    quarter
                                 a      of an hour  on  that day,
but placed nearer the nostrils, and she found herself better.
So encouraged,      pursued this practice for several days, till
                    I
I judged   that she  might draw the gas from         vessel cona
trived for this purpose, and still less mixed with common
air.    Her cough was in consequence considerably abated,
her breathing became very easy, she felt herself after each
inhalation revived, and was evidently so much mended that                        I
took my leave of the lady, after having put the family into
the way of continuing on the process.        This practice un          I
derstand was persisted in for some time, till Mrs.           was   L
established in her health.        then lost sight of the family
                                     1
for several years, (Mr. and Mrs. L— — — having gone
abroad *,) when      was at last agreeably surprised
                      I                                       call     by   a
from Mr.       L      who said,
                       ,              he was returned to Eng
                                         '
                                         f
land, and was come to thank me for            wife and two chil
                                                     a
dren."     Only three years ago this lady with her husband
attended my lectures, and had continued since in perfect
health.     Inave the honour to remain, dear Sir,
             With much respect and esteem, yours, &c.
                                                                 A. Walker.
              Observations   on this Case      by   Dr. Thornton.'
     1.   As the attending physician          is   dead,   I   am unable ex
actly to ascertain all the symptoms                 of the disorder     here
   * Upon putting the question, neither of the Mr. Walkers have any
idea that this expedition was undertaken for the purposes of health.
                                                                   mentioned      ;

 362       Twelfth Communication from Dr. Thornton,
  mentioned ; but the debility must have been great, and the
  danger alarming.
     2. M After each inhalation of the superoxygenated air,
  the patient was revived."      Mr. Walker also mentions a like
  effect, from inhaling an atmosphere of a higher standard.
  Dr. Priestley likewise experienced the same good effect, and,
 ventures to prophecy " that in time the inhaling of oxygen
                                                                        '
  air would become a fashionable article of luxury. Hi-
  therto," says this philosopher, " only two mice and
 myself have had the pleasure of breathing it."           In xayjirst
  communications,       published by Dr. Beddoes, December
  1 793,  I have stated the same circumstance, and add, by
 way of P.-S. to my second letter, " I cannot at this time
 forbear mentioning the instance of a clergyman, the Rev.
 Mr. T — r — r, who laboured under dyspepsia, and great de
 pression of spirit.    He' had exhausted the whole catalogue of
 tonics, without experiencing much benefit. As nothing
 conduces more towards good spirits and quick digestion
 than a clear pure air, I accordingly ordered him to inhale
 vital air, blended with a proportion of atmospheric.             The
 load on his chest, as he termed       it,  was removed; his ap
 petite Mas quickened    ;  his spirits were raised to the pitch I
would term gaiety    ;    and, as he informs me, he felt the
 same night so strong        adesire to go to the play, to which
he had not been, not feeling the least inclination towards
such an excursion, for long time, that he went that night
                             a                                    ;
 and declares, that he   is  fully convinced that no inducement
 could have cot him thither, had he not previously inhaled
a    more exalted atmosphere."          About the same time Dr.
 Bigffs was    apatient of Dr. Beddoes, and being      a  physician,
the more credit will be- allowed to his assertion.          He says,
•' after
           breathing the superoxygenated air,      I found my dif
ficulty of breathing much relieved in three days, and before
the expiration of eight days     it  entirely -eased.    Before this
time   I   had been subject to coldness of the extremities,
which now went otf.          I could even sleep with fewer bed
clothes.   I   had also  a  greater jtow      spirits." Dr Max
                                             of
well, and Dr. GoodwVn, infused        4   pints of vital air into the
cellular texture of several dogs,         by making an insertion
under the skin.       After the first effects of the operation was
over, the animals appeared " exceedingly lively" (maxima
alacritas.) (Vide Dr. Maxwell's Thesis, published in 1787,
Edinburgh.)       The celebrated Dr. Beddoes, in his history of
that remarkable case, where            person subject to epilepsy
was thrown into an unusual fit, says, " was not prepared
                                  a
                                               I
to expect any thing like intoxication from an overdose of
           2                                                  diluted

                        On Pneumatic Medicine.                      363
diluted oxygen air, especially as in the instances where I
have known more inspired in the same time, nothing be
yond a sensation similar to the alertness of healthy children
was felt. (Vide Letters of Dr. Withering, &c. to Dr.
Beddoes, p. 33.)           Thus it is a common remark, after
 coming    out  of vitiated    air in a crowded room, how grate
ful   how  reviving   is  the  air ! The western breeze in spring,
 replete  with  oxygen     air  is even a theme for the poet's song.
 There are many who do not feel refreshed unless they use
 exercise in the open air. Besides the nerves,
     3. That the inhalation of oxygen air acts on the circula
 tion, appears to be proved from the following particulars.
 From experiments with animals we learn the following very
 curious tacts : — " I observed," says Dr. Beddoes,         " signs of
 much stronger irritability in the right auricle and ventricle,
 in the diaphragm and intercostal muscles of the oxygenated
 rabbit ; and, considering the force and frequency of the con
 tractions, the quantity of action would have been greater in
 the oxygenated had the irritability continued five times as
 long in the other. The speedier coagulation of the oxygen
 ated venous blood        is,
                           I     think, also remarkable and, as
                                                        ;            it
 happened in three following experiments, was not acci
 dental. There was an alteration made also in the muscular
fibre. Several persons, of whom all did not know the one
 rabbit from the other, found the boiled flesh of the oxy
 genated, in both cases, more stringy and harder.            The dif
  ference was most sensible in the young pair.            The greater
 stringinesswas apparent in both these occasions to the eye."
     " In society for philosophical experiments and conversa
           a
  tions, Mr. Taylor's pulse was first felt     by   Dr. Higgins, and
 by   many other members present with myself.           It   was only
  64 previous to his inhaling 19 pints of pure oxygen air,           al
 though he was healthy, and only 22 years of age.              In the
  minutes of our society, which are published (see p. 146),
it    is noted, "   that during the respiration his pulse was
  quickened   to 90 beats in    a     minute, and considerably in
  creased in strength and fullness   ;      but he felt no inconveni
  ence whatever. - The vessel being charged again with nine
  teen pints of oxygen air, he respirea these also, and his
  pulse was now increased to 120 beats in           a   minute, and
  vigorous  withal  :  he  felt  no  inconvenience, but  had    asense
  •f unusual ivarmth in his lungs.          In one hour after the ex
  periment, his pulse was returned to 64 beats, as before the
  experiment." — That evening Mr. Taylor appeared to me,
  and others to be rather in fuller spirits.
     [The subject of the pneumatic practice will be resumed
  in the next.]
                                                    LXVIII. Notices

                           t   364   ]
  LXVIII.     Notices respecting   New Publications    and the
                           Fine Arts.
A   Practical Essay on the Analysis of Minerals, exemplify
   ing the best Methods of analysing Ores, Earths, Stones,
   inflammable Fossils, and Mineral Substances in general.
   By   Frederic Accum.         l2mo.
JVLr. Accum,       to whom the public are under obligations
for a useful work of which we lately took some notice,
namely, A System of Theoretical and Practical Chemistry,
has brought forward the present essay, as he informs us in
his preface, by the express desire of a number of gentlemen
to whom he delivered a private course of lectures on prac
tical chemistry.     We have no doubt but it will meet with
a favourable reception, as it presents much useful informa
tion on the subjects which it embraces.      The following ex
tract will convey some idea of the nature of the work :
            General Analysis   of Earllis and Stones.
   In  the preceding pages we have considered        earths and .
stones solely  with a view to discover their principal preva
lent component parts, in order to determine therefrom the
genus to which the mineral belongs : we shall now enlarge
upon this subject more fully, bv pointing out some general
observations, which may serve as a gnide for separating all
the different earths that may exist in a mineral submitted
to our examination.      In the analysis of earthy substances*
or stones, we must first attend to their solubility or insolu
bility in acids ; and with that view we divide them into two
classes, namely, earths and stones, which effervesce with,
and are either totally or nearly soluble in, nitric acid, di
luted with five or six times its weight of water ; and such
as are not soluble in that acid.       Suppose, therefore, that
the stone to be examined consisted or silex, alumine, mag
nesia, lime, strontia, and barytcs.
   The method of separating these different earths will bc-
eomc obvious from the following considerations :
    Process I. Reduce a quantity of the mineral to powder,
and try whether it effervesces with nitric or muriatic acid
diluted in the above proportions ; if so, let a determinate
quantity be put into a tubulated retort of as little capacity
as possible, immerse the neck of it under a cylinder filled
•with water, and placed in the pneumatic apparatus.
    II. Let a quantity of muriatic acid be put at once through
                                                             the

                   On the Analysis     of Earths.             365
the tubulure, or opening, at the      top of the retort, and im
mediately stop    it so as to be air-tight.
     III. When no more gas is liberated by the addition of a
fresh portion of acid, assist the action by heat, and transfer
the cylinder containing the gas into lime water : the car
bonic acid will now be absorbed ; the loss of the whole
bulk, after deducting the air which was contained in the
retort, indicates the quantity of carbonic adid contained in
the stone.
     IV. The substance from which the carbonic acid has been
expelled must be diluted with double its weight of water,
and filtered ; the insoluble part, if any, put aside for further
examination.       The solution may contain lime, magnesia,
alumine, barytes, and strontia.
     V. In order to ascertain if barytes or strontia be present,
dilute a small portion of the solution with 24 times its bulk
of water, and drop into it a solution of sulphate of soda.
 If barytes or strontia (or both) be present, a cloudiness will
take place, and a white precipitate will gradually be depo
sited.
     VI. Having thus investigated the presence or absence of
these earths, our next object is to separate them. Suppose
 they should both be contained in the fluid ? For that pur
 pose, add a solution of sulphate of soda till it produces no
 further cloudiness ; when the precipitate has subsided, col
lect it on a filter, wash and dry it.
      VII. Boil this precipitate, with four times its weight of
 carbonate of potash, in a sufficient quantity of water for at
 least one hour, supplying this fluid as it evaporates, then
 suffer the insoluble part to subside, and wash it.
      VIII. Transfer the insoluble part of the last process into
 nitric acid of the specific gravity 1-4, diluted with an equal
 weight of water. The carbonate of strontia which it con
 tained will be dissolved, but the barytes will not be acted
  upon : the weight of the latter, deducted from the weight
 of the whole, gives the quantity of each ; or the two may
 be separated by adding to the nitric solution barytic water
  till no further precipitate ensues : the barytes in this case
 will seize the acid, and the strontia will be thrown down ;
 but in this case it is essential that the nitric solution of the
 earth is perfectly neutral, or has no excess of acid.
      IX. The strontia and barytes being thus separated, heat
  »he fluid and drop into it a boiling        solution of carbo
 nate of soda : the precipitate which falls down may con
 sist of all the remaining earths which were contained in the
                                                          solutioa

366                              Analysis   of Earths.
 solution, namely, lime, magnesia, and alumine.         In order
 to separate them, proceed as follows :
     X. Boil the precipitate in a solution of caustic potash for
 at least half an hour, dilute the fluid with water, and se
 parate the insoluble part by the filter, the alumine will now
be dissolved by the potash, and the other earths remain un
 touched.
    XI. To separate the alumine, neutralize the alkaline so
lution by muriatic acid ; a precipitate falls down ; wash                            it,
and expose       to red heat. It
                   it        a           the alumine which was
                                                      Is
contained in the mineral.
    XII. To separate the other earths, dissolve the residue of
 Process X in nitric or muriatic acid, evaporate the solution
to dryness, weigh the dry mass, and pour on              at least        it
double its weight of sulphuric acid, and heat the mixture
till no more white fumes rise. Digest the mass in twice
its weight of cold water, filter                it,
                                     and dry the insoluble part
in   a low red heat.
    XIII. The insoluble portion of the last process contains '
the lime combined with sulphuric acid.          To ascertain its
quantity deduct from its weight 59 per cent. the remainder           ;
is  the quantity of lime.
    XIV. To obtain the magnesia, concentrate the fluid ob
tained in the Xllth Process to one-third of its original bulk                        ;
make      boiling hot and decompose
         it                                     solution of car
                                                           it   by   a
bonate of potash      collect the precipitate, expose
                         ;                               to   red        it      a
heat till    does not effervesce
              it                      the addition of an acid.
                                                 by
It will then be the pure magnesia contained in the mineral.
     Stones insoluble        in Diluted     Nitric and Muriatic Acids.
   Process    Take
               I.     determinate quantity of the stone re
                             a
duced to an impalpable powder, mix        with at least three   it
times its weight of potash, and ruse the mass thoroughly
in   silver or platina crucible. From the phamomena which
     a
take place during this process,' we may already form some
conjecture concerning thd' nature of the stone submitted to
examination.     If the mass fuses completely, siliceous earth
predominates but    ;   the fusion remains imperfect, and the
                             if
mass cannot be rendered liquid, the other earths are most
abundant.     If remains in powder)' form, and can partly
                        it                  a
be rendered liquid, and        the bulk of the mass has been
                                      if                                              '
considerably increased, then alumine may be expected to be
the most prevalent part.     If the mass the crucible be of -   in
a brownish red dolour,        contains oxide of iron
                                     it                 bright           :   a
green colour announces the presence of manganese,        espe
                                                         cially

                      Analysis of    Stones.                        3C7
cially if a small quantity of the mass, when dissolved in
water, communicates to that fluid the same colour. If the
mass is of a yellowish green, the oxide of chrome may be
present.
   II. When the mass has been thoroughly fused or kept
in a red heat for at least two hours, remove the crucible out
of the fire, and when nearly cold pour water into it gradu
ally, in order to detach the mass from the crucible ; transfer
the whole into a flask, pour four limes its quantity, or more,
of water over it ; boil the mixture for about half an hour,
and then suffer it to subside.
   III. Having done this, pour gradually muriatic acid into
the before -obtained solution without previously separating
the insoluble part, if any.    The first portion of acid which
is added occasions a    flocculent precipitate, then an effer
vescence takes place, and a copious precipitate immediately
follows ; which, however, is no sooner formed than it is
it-dissolved. On adding more acid, the portion of the mass
which resisted the action of water, and which was not dis
solved in Process II., will become dissolved.      If it consists
of alumine it will be taken up silently by the acid ; if it be
lime, barytes, or strontia, it will be dissolved with effer
vescence.
   Remark. — From the phenomena attending the process
of the solution of this      mass in muriatic acid, some indica
tions may be derived.          If the solution be colourless the
stone contains no metallic substance,            or only a minute
quantity.     If  its colour  be purpleish  red,   it contains man
ganese ; orange red is a sign of oxide of iron ; gold yellow
shows chrome.
    IV. To separate the different earths, &c. contained in the
solution, evaporate it to dryness ; when the evaporation is
approaching towards its completion it assumes a gelatinous
appearance,     it must then be diligently stirred with a glass
rod till it is almost dry.
    V. Transfer the mass into a large quantity of water, boil
 the mixture for a few minutes and then filter              it,
                                                            wash the
insoluble residue left on the filter repeatedly, dry         and ex
                                                              it
 pose it to a  red heat  ;  its weight shows the quantity of silex
 contained in the stone. If     it   is pure silex     itwill be per
 fectly white, entirely insoluble          sulphuric, nitric, and
 muriatic acids :   if   itbe coloured    it in  contaminated with
                                                  is
 some metallic oxide, and shows that the evaporation to dry
 ness has been performed with too much heat.               From the
 metallic oxide  it     may be purified       by
                                              digestion in muriatic
  acid, and then washed and dried as before. The acid ex
                                                                   pended

    368                   Analysis of  Stones.
   pended in washing may be added to the fluid which passed
   through the filter in obtaining this earth.
      VI. The fluid from which the silex has thus been ob
   tained, is then to be concentrated by evaporation and
   mingled with a heated solution of carbonate of potash till
  no more precipitate ensues.      The precipitate must be sepa
   rated by the filter, washed and dried.      It may contain alu-
   minc, lime, magnesia, glucine, and yttria, beside metallic
  oxides.
      VII. Transfer the precipitate obtained in the last process
  into a solution of potash, and boil it for half an hour.        If
  alumineand glucine were present, they will both be dissolved
  in the potash, while the other substances remain untouched
  in the form of a powder.
      VIII. To separate the alutnine, decompose the solution
  by the addition of an acid, taking care to add the acid em-
           in excess, so that the precipitate which first appeared
 Cloycd
    ccomes redissolvcd.     Having done this, drop into it a so
 lution of carbonate of ammonia in such quantity that the
 liquid tastes of it. By this addition the whole of the alu-
 nnne will be precipitated in white flakes, and the glucine
 will remain dissolved provided the quantity of carbonate of
 ammonia used be not too small. The liquid must now be
 filtered, and the alumine washed, dried, and ignited ; its
 weight may then be ascertained.
     IX. The fluid from which the alumine has been sepa
 rated may be boiled for some time ; the glucine, if it con
 tains any, will be precipitated, which may be dried and
 weighed.
     X. The insoluble part left in Process VII may now con
 tain lime, magnesia, and some metallic oxide : let it be dis
solved in diluted sulphuric acid, and the solution evaporated
to dryness ; on the dry mass pour a small quantity of water,
and digest it for a few minutes ; the water will dissolve the
sulphate of magnesia and the metallic sulphates ; but the
lime combined with the sulphuric acid will remain undis
solved : let it be heated red-hot in a crucible, and the quan
tity of lime determined, as directed before, page 143.
     Remark. — If yttria be suspected, let the residuum of Pro
cess VII. be treated with carbonate of ammonia, which will
dissolve the yttria and leave the other bodies ; then proceed
as above.
     XI. The solution from which the lime has been separated
must next be copiously diluted with water; add a small
excess of acid, and then drop into it a solution of carbonate
of potash as long as a precipitate ensues. This will sepa
                                                              rate

                                                         •
                       and the Fine Arts.                      36<)
rate the oxides  of iron, chrome,     and nickel ; but the oxide
or" manganese,   and the magnesia,     if any be present, will re-
main dissolved.
    XII. To separate the oxide of manganese from magnesia,
pour into the fluid obtained in the last process hydrosul-
pliurct of potash : the manganese will be precipitated, but
the magnesia will remain dissolved.        The precipitated man
ganese must be heated to redness, and weighed.
   XIII. To the fluid of the last process, from which the
manganese has been separated, add a solution of potash ;
the precipitate which now falls down is magnesia ; let it
be washed, dried, and heated to redness.
   XIV. In order to obtain the metallic oxides, boil the in
soluble residue, left in Process XI, repeatedly in nitric acid
to dryness.
   XV. Transfer the dry mass into a concentrated solution
6f potash. The oxide of chrome, acidified in the last process,
will thus unite to the potash, but the other oxides will remain
Untouched : decant the fluid from the insoluble residue.
   XVI. To separate the oxide of chrome, add to the solu
tion muriatic acid in excess ; and evaporate the fluid till it
assumes a green colour : then, on adding a solution of pot
ash, the oxide of chrome falls down, because the quantity
of oxygen required for its acidification has been separated
by the muriatic acid : let the precipitate be dried and weighed.
   XVII. Let the insoluble residue of Process XIV be next
dissolved in muriatic acid, and to the solution add liquid
ammonia in considerable excess : the oxide of iron will be
precipitated ; let it be washed, dried, and weighed.
   XVIII. The oxide of nickel which remained in solution
on account of the excess of ammonia will now fall clown :
on evaporating the fluid to drvness, its weight may be as
certained in the same manner with the other ingredients,
and the analysts of the stone is now completed.
Elements    of Galvanism in Theory and Practice; with a
   comprehensive View of its History, from the frst Expe
   riments of Galvani to the present Time : containing also
   Practical Directions for constructing Galvanic Apparatus,
   and plain Systematic Instructions for performing all the
   various Experiments.        Illustrated with Plates.        By
    C. H. Wilkinson.        2 Vols.    8vo.
   The title of this work sufficiently explains its object. The
author, in his preface, mentions the sources whence he has
chiefly derived his information, namely, the productions of
Sue, Keinhold, and Humboldt, and the Medical Journal,
Mr. Nicholson's Journal, and the Philosophical Magazine ;
    Vol. XVII. No. 68.             Aa                          and

S70             Notices respecting the Fine Arts*
 and it is but justice to the author to say he has been very
 industrious, having allowed nothing to escape him which
 ought to appear in a work of the kind he had undertaken.
 He divides the historical part of his work into two epochs ;
 the first consisting of the various discoveries from the pe
 riod of Galvani to that of the Voltaic pile ; when the second
 commences, which comes down to the present time. This
 is followed by what the author calls his particular theory,
 in which, however, several opinions are mentioned as new
 which we have seen elsewhere, and some of which appear
 to us to have been mentioned in the historical part as being
 entertained by others.
    The language of the author is neat and correct, and the
 work will afford a considerable portion of amusement to
 readers in general, as well as to those whose pursuits render
 it necessary for them to make themselves acquainted with
 this new and interesting subject.
 The Soldier's Friend: containing Familiar Instructions to
    the Loyal Volunteers, Yeomanry Corps, and Military
    Men in general, on the Preservation and Recovery of
    their Health.      By William Blair, A.M. &c. &c,
    A New Edition.      12mo.
    Mr. Blair's exertions at the present crisis have been highly
meritorious.     His gratuitous lectures to the volunteers will
 be long remembered with gratitude by his countrymen, and
the present little volume will be well received bv the public,
especially by those for whose service it is chiefly intended.
No military gentleman or volunteer ought to be without it.
 Thfi Conversion    of Saul:    engraved  ly Hellver from a
                        Picture  ly Dayes.
    The composition, breadth of light and shadow, and other
points of excellence which are conspicuous in this print,
rank it among the finest productions of the British school.
It possesses a force of expression that must recommend it
to all the lovers of true art, at the same time that the choice
of the subject, and its truly classical mode of treatment,
seem well calculated to ensure to it a general reception. The
stvle of the engraving, which does great credit to Mr. Hell
ver, has not been excelled by any thing of the kind we have
seen, the judicious mixture of the line with the dot forming
a most happy foil to each other.
    We cannot help observing that this print is doubly Wel
come to us, as it shows that the arts have only been appa
rently on the decline since the publication, from the pictures
of M r. West, of    those fine subjects — Mark  Anthony, Kcgu-
Uis,. Slralonice, and the sou -of Anligonus,    &c. Sec. What
                                                          a con

                      French National Institute.                371
 ft  contrast between such subjects as these and the insignifi
 cant trifles chosen by some artists from the different occu
 pations of children !
      Historical painting, when properly executed, serves to
 rouse the mind to acts of heroism or virtue, or to instil
 some great moral truth.        Like music, it misses its aim if
 it touch not our feelings. To be feelingly alive to whatever
is great and noble ought to be the study of every artist,
whose wish is not only himself to excel but to improve the
public taste, as the best and only certain means of insuring
to the arts that patronage which will otherwise be expected
in vain.
  LXIX.       Proceedings  of Learned and Economical    Societies.
                  FRENCH NATIONAL       INSTITUTE.
  J.  he following letter from C. Mechain, charged with con
tinuing the meridian of France to the Balearian islands,
was read in the sitting of the Institute, Monday, November
 10,    1803:
     "   You know how many obstacles and how much delay
I   have experienced on the continent ; as I could do nothing
else, nor better, I undertook to form the chain of triangles
on the coast of Catalonia, from the eminence of Matas on
Mount Allegre,       as far as Mount Sia beyond Tortosa, which
I   reached bv six triangles ; the last of which only is very
large, and by a small acute triangle, that is to say, of 23
degrees. I had reverberators which I used for measuring the
angles, and with success.        I did not neglect the day signals
when I was able to observe them without prolonging my
stay too much at the different stations.       I am now at that
of Montserrat, which I hope soon to terminate ; nothing
will then remain but that of Matas.          My coopcrators can
tell you what we had at first to suffer from the scorch
ing heat of the climate ; how much I have been impeded
by fogs, continual rains, and torrents, the most violent
tempests and dreadful hurricanes, which assailed us almost
incessantly, and in every place, till our arrival at Montserrat.
Such a stormy state of the v eathcr would scarcely be cre
dible in the most intemperate climates of the earth. How
ever, this chain of triangles will be terminated after three
months' labour. The distance between Matas and Mount
Sia is about 110 miles.            The 1'ui dc la Morella and
Mola Cima, the highest of the peaks of Mount Sia, will
be the two summits of the large triangles for the islands.
Their distance is 85 miles ; these two points are verv
                                Aa 2                       visible

 3T2               French National Institute,
 visible from cacli other when the weather is favourable*!
 The height of the Morella is 1700 feet above the level of
 the sea; that of Mola Cima 1400; that of Silla Torcllas,
 in the island of Majorca, is about 4600.
    " We are now employed on this great triangle and that for
 Ivica, which will be as great.
    " The court of Spain has sriven the most positive orders
 to the captain of the britr, who is to convey us to the Ba-
 learian islands, and to different points of the coast of Ca
 talonia, as often as may be necesgary., To defend the re
 verberators and lodge the observer with his instruments ort
 mountains so elevated, and during an inclement season, it
 will be necessary to erect four huts of wood, or of stones,
 as tents would not be sufficient.
    " In regard to the success of the triangles, it is very cer
 tain, at least in regard to that which will join Majorca to
 the coast o* Spain.      That which is to join Ivica to the
 coast of Majorca will not be certain, unless we can find in
Ivica a mountain 2-100 feet in height : without this Ivica
 cannot be observed.      I have been assured that it may be
 seen from Mola Cima ; but during the three weeks which
 I spent on that wretched peak, the weather was so dismal
that I could not ascertain the truth of this circumstance,
which was told to me eleven vears ago. I was favoured
only by one night to observe the reverberators of the moun
tain of Leberia and the chapel of St. John.          There were
two at Leberia, and three at the chapel of     St. John. They
were more than sufficient, though the distance exceeds 58
miles, and though the visual ray passed over the sea. I,
however, employed only a circle of 18 inches with its old
sights.    I can place twelve reverberators, and even more,
on one of the summits, the most distant of those to be ob
served, at the same time.      It was proved about eleven years
ago,   that  one reverberator  lighted on the Silla dc Torellas,
was observed from Mount Jouy for two hours, at the
height of 5-25 feet above the level of the sea. This, in
deed, was the case by using a large achromatic telescope of
 18 inches' focus; but the telescopes which I applied to
the circle of two feet are as powerful as that of three
feet, and I shall have twice as much light, and even
more. There will also be a great advantage in regard to the
height of the Moreila and of Mount Sia, which is almost
triple that of Mount Jouy.        Nothing then can retard us in
regard to this first triangle, but waiting for a favourable mo
ment to make our observations. As lor the rest, I do not
know whether it will be possible till I traverse the moun
tains of Ivica.    But even if I iii.d it impossible, the opera-
           £                                                tion,

                       Board  of Agriculture.                  373
  tion, that is to say, the prolongation of the meridian to the
  39th degree of latitude will not be rendered ineffectual.
  1st, It will not be difficult to connect the small island of
  Cabrera to Silla de Torellas and another point of the island
  of Majorca, provided we can make, in that island a few sub
  sidiary triangles, and measure a base. We shall find means
  at Pahnato make iron rules, and I shall carry than back to
  Paris in good preservation,   that I may compare them with
 the platina rules used at Melun and Perpiguan.          2d, It is
 certain that Ivica may be connected with Majorca, and some
 other points of the coast of the kingdom of Valencia, by the
 mountains of Cape Marten and that in the environs of
 Oropesa ; and to unite these points to Mola Cima and Le-
 beria four triangles will be sufficient.   I shall be better able
 to form an opinion on this subject when I have visited the
 mountains of Ivica, where I shall commence my operations.
                  THE BOARD    OF AGRICULTURE
              Has offered the following Premiums      :
                      [Continued from p. j86.]
     III. Cottages. — To the person who shall build on his
 estate the most cottages for labouring families, and assign
 to each a proper portion of land, for the support of not less
 than a cow and a hog, and for a sufficient garden, — the gold
 medal. Accounts of the expenses of building, land as
 signed, culture, — if any, livestock, and state of the fami
lies, with the rent paid — verified by certificates, to be pro
 duced to the board on or before the third Tuesday in April,
 1804.    The same premium for 1805.
     IV. Cows for Cottagers.— Doubts having been expressed
by some persons concerning the expediency of cottagers
keeping cows, except on rich soils, the board will give to the
 person who shall produce the most satisfactory account, ve
 rified by experiments, of the best means of supporting cows
on poor land, in a method applicable to cottagers, — the gold
medal. — Accounts to be produced of the soil, articles- culti
vated, produce, stock kept, and every material circum
stance — verified by certificates, on or before the first Tues
day in May 1804.        The same premium for 1805.
     V. Laud for Cottagers. — The board being informed that
the labouring poor on the estates of several persons in Rut
land and Lincolnshire, having land for one or two cows, and
a sufficiency of potatoes, did not apply in the late scarcity
for any parochial relief; and it appearing to be a gre;i> na
tional object to spread so beneficial a system, the board \w\
give to the person who shall explain, in the mosj gatisfaeto.y
                               A  a 3                   manner.

37*                            Geology.
manner, the best means of rendering this practice as general
through the kingdom as circumstances will admit, — the gold
medal. To be sent to the board on or before the first Tues
day in November 1804.
                           [To be continued.]
         LXX.    Intelligence and Miscellaneous ylrticlcs.
                               GEOLOGV.
 JV'i-K. Esmark of Kongsberg, on his travels through Nor
 way, has lately made some very interesting researches to
 determine the snow-line and line of vegetation. Of all the
mountains which he ascended the Snechutteii on Dovre-
 iield is the highest, its altitude above the level of the sea
 being more than 8000 Rhinlandic feet.                It is continually
 covered with snow, and in some places, where the snow had'
  tumbled down, it appeared to consist of twentv-five strata,
 each covered with a perceptible incrustation of ice.               The
 uppermost stratum, which has an undulated form, was in
 the hollows between the waves of snow weak and of an
 amethyst colour, as has been observed in the Alps.                   In
 places   where   the rays  of the sun   fall in  an oblique  direction,
 which is the case towards the north and north-east, the
 snow-line is placed at the height of 3000 feet above the
 level of the sea; but towards trie south and west, where the
  Sun is more powerful, the snow melts at the height of 7000
  feet above the sea.      The highest points which Mr. Esmark
  ascended      consist of micaceous schistus, except the
  mountain of Tronfieldet between Tonstcl and Foldalen, the
  summit of which consists of a kind of stone hitherto un
  known, which is a mixture of green feldspar and schiller
  spar, about -1500 feet above the level of the sea. This stone
  is so magnetic that it changes the direction of the magnetic
  needle at the distance of four feet.           It is susceptible of a
  fine polish ; and in regard to colour ha; a great similaritv
  to the Labrador stone. The height of the line, of vegetation
   in Norway is different, as well as the kinds of trees and
  plants, which are more or less capable of enduring the cold.
   At the height of 1000 feet several species of fruit-trees
   thrive and produce abundant crops. The silver fir can bear
   in Norway a greater degree, of cold than the spruce iir. The
   latter grows only at the height of 2000 feet ; on the other
   hand, the former is found at the height of 3000 feet.             The
   birch thrives very well to the height of 3000 feet ; at a
   greater altitude nothing is found but the Bctulur.ona, toge
   ther with some willows and the juniper, which, however,
                                                                     does

                             Agriculture.                                  375
does not thrive    at a greater   height than that of 3200 feet
above the level    of the sea.   Barley and oats, however, grow
at the height of from 1500 to 1S00 feet, but only in valleys.
At the height of from 1200 to 1300 feet the night frosts
are very prejudicial to the seed.
   Mr. Wolf has found near Turneau in Bohemia a pecu
liar mass of glass produced from a blackish basaltes, which,
is met with in abundance at Buchberg in Bohemia.            When
this stone is placed in a glass furnace, it fuses in eight
hours so that boxes and other articles can be made of                       it,
and of any form, at pleasure.         It more fusible than glass,
                                           is
 and therefore cannot be blown like glass, but can be drawn
 out into coarse threads and rods. When cold                harder
                                                             it   is
 than glass, and    is  more difficult to be ground and to be
 cut.   When cast        adheres strongly to iron moulds
                        it                                     and     ;
 on this account moulds of brass must be employed.            cor  It
 rodes the crucible also much less than glass       but this stone
                                                         ;
 may  be  used  instead  of manganese,     as an addition to glass,
 which   itpurifies  in  asimilar  manner.
        SIR,                 AGRICULTURE.
   In your 66th number of the Philosophical Magazine
there   an extract of Mr. Close's communication
        is                                      to the
Board of Agriculture, in which he says,              "
                                            the eighth part
of an acre of good turnips steamed, and with the liquor
mixed with oat straw cut, will keep    full grown beast in
                                                 a
good order six months.   An acre of turnips with the first
crop of hay, will fatten two bullocks in the same time,
 &c., &c."
  I   understand    by this that one acre of steamed turnips will,
 with    oat straw mixed    in the liquor, keep eight full grown
•
  beasts in good order six months.
  I    wish to know what quantity will make the same num
  ber of full grown beasts fat    ?
     There appears to me some ambiguity in the above, as also
  in what follows, namely, that four acres, with the addition
  of one-fburlh of an acre of turnips, will keep only three
  beasts, and fatten tiro bullocks.         It
                                            appears to me that by
  the first part,  ifsteam was used,      great many more ought
                                           a
  to be kept.
  I     also could wish to have the proper method of steaming
   detailed, with the quantity of turnips so given each animal
   each day    also the quantity of oat straw
               ;                                  also the expense
                                                     ;
  of the steaming.
      Your entering into this minutely would render an im
   portant service to the country          in
                                          general, and      for one
                                                              I
   would thank you particularly.
   To Mr. Tilloch.                                            X.Y.

                                    C    37«     ]
                    INDEX to VOL. XVII.
AdD.          On   the gallic, 59, 61 ;         240; sulphate of barytes, 240;
     the prussic, 95 j   the benzoic,          asphaltum, 242 ; pearl-stone,
     151 j phosphoric,        157; flu          243 j antient coins, 2 56 ; of
    oric.        .          .       357         an antient speculum, 289 ; of
Acorn. A prize question               93       fossil elastic resin, 307 ; of
Accum on analysis of minerals,                 peat earth, 310; of human
                                    364        teeth, 313; Accum on, 364.
Aerostation,                   188,  19 1   Andre-alt's aerial voyage,        188
Agriculture,      16, 178, 285, 373,        Antimony, native. Analised, 232
                                    37S     Arable lands. Estimate,           183
,/fijbV.tportable blast-furnace 166         Arts and sciences. Society of, at
Albumen. Experiments on, 23                    Utrecht,                       186
Almonds. Remarks on,             25, 26     Asia. On people of,                11
Aloe, filaments of. On strength            Asphaltum.       Analised,         942
     of,                 .          34-1   Astringent vegetables.       Experi
Ambergris. Properties and ana                  ments on,          63,212,293
    lysis of,                   88, 131    Astronomy,                          9a
America,       South.       Geological     Atkins     on hydrometers,       204,
    sketch of,                      347                                      329
                                                  .
Ammonia.       A cure for the bites          A
                                           Aurichalcum.       On,            265
    of snakes,                 125, 128
Analyses   of  native muriate    of am     Babylonian brick. Inscription on,
    monia, 76, 77; of sassolin, 77 ;           explained,                    350
    of salt of Idria, 79 ; of meli-        Banks, Sir Joseph,                341
    lite, 79.; of muriated lead ore,       Barks. Experiments on, 63, 293
    83 ; of the green phosphates           Barometer at peak of Teneriffe,
    of lead, 86; of ambergris, 88,                                       33»   37
    131; of diamond, 197; of               Barton on bite       of rattlesnake,
    ruby, 201 ; of sapphire, 201 ;
    of the emerald, 202 ; of the           Barytes,      muriate of.    Experi
    topaz, 2C2 ; of hyacinth, 203;             ments   on, 160 ; sulphate of,
    of the beryl, 203; of catechu,             analised,                     24Q
    217 ; of phosphated lead ore,          Benzoic acid.      On,            151
    230; sulphated lead ore, 23 1 ;        Beryl. On the,                   203
    white lead ore, 231; native            Blair's soldier's friend,         378
   antimony, 232 ; olive ore, 234 j        Blast-furnace.     Aikin's portable,
   iron ore, 235; copper ores,                                               166
   235; pitch stone, 2365 pu               Blue. To dye,                    325
   mice stone, 237 ; zirconia,             Board of Agriculture, 285,373
    237; madreporite, 238; of              Boiler, Woolfs, described, 4a
   ecorza, 239 ; manganese ore,            Boilers. On heating,             27;
                                                                         Books.

                              INDEX.                                    377
Booh.      Notices respecting, 76,    Dyeing.      Nankeen colour,      149
       188,    a;o, 284, 307, 364              ¦ various colours,       324
Bor.'ge.    Experiments on,       30
Beyle on diamond,                iy7  Earths.      General    analyses   of,
Brevier on dyeing,               149                                    364
Brewery, Meux's, 40, 164, 275         Economical Societies,       92,  186,
Buck-thorn. On,                   31                              2»3' 371
Bur kit on fulminating mercury,       EJelcrantz's safety-piston,       162
                                 169  Eggs. On white of,                  25
                                      Elderberries. On,                   30
Cabbage. Experiments on juice         Electricity of clouds, e ; on
   of,                        23, 29      Franklinian theory of, 97 ; a
Calico printing.      On,        323     prize question,                187
Carbon, its use in vegetation, 321    Emerald. On the,                  201
Catechu.      Experiments on, 212     Esmark.       Geological     remarks
Cinis,  an  alkaline earth,      267     by,                            374
CVoje on agriculture,
                                 178
Clouds. On the modifications,         Farina. On,                         *6
   production,     suspension,   and  Fccula ofplants.      On,           22
   destruction of,                  5 Fine Arts,                        370
Coins, antient, analized,        256  Fischer on red oxide of mercury,
Colourless martial crystals      325                                    » 39
Cook, Captain,                   341  Firminger on meteor of Novem
Copper, an ingredient in antient         ber, 1803.                     279
   mirrors,                      293  Fishery. On the herring,          218
Copper ores.     Analized,       73 3 Fla.v. On strength of,            341
Cordicrs account of peak of Te-       Fluoric acid. To prepare, 357
   neriffe,                       31  Fossil elastic resin. Analized, 307
Corinthian brass. On,            265  Fourcroy on gluten, &c. exa
Cotton yarn.      To dye,        149     mined,                           27
                                      French National Institute,        371
D'jfrcct's experiments on dia         Friction.     On the motion of
   monds,                        197     bodies affected by, 47, 112;
Davy    on tanning,     58,63,212,       experiments on,                120
                                 293  Fulminating mercury.         Burkitt
D ayes'1 conversion of    Saul, 370      on, 169 j Hume on,             30J
Delalande      on stones from the     Funerals. Indian,                   19
   clouds,                       228  Furnace. Aikin's portable, 1 66
Diamond.       Oriental and Brazil
   ian, 194; where found, 195;        Gallic acid. On,              59, 61
   to select, 195 ; experiments       Galls. Experiments on infusions
   on, 197 ; value of, 199 ; sizes,      of,                             67
                                 199  Galvanism, a prize question, 1-87
Diseases,   a prize question, 187 ;   Garnerins       thirty-fifth aerial
   on cure of,        171,234, 360       voyage,                        191
Drilling in husbandry. On, 1 80       Gelatin for detecting tannin. To
Dubin on vultures,               359     prepare,                        64
Duhamel on herring fishery, 218;      Gems. Pepys on,                   193
   experiments on vegetation,         Geography }                       192
                                 3'9  GeoI»~y,         33, 287, 347, 374
                                                                       Gittt

  37*                           INDEX.
 Giese on benzoic acid,            i  ;i Lamps with two concentric      wictt.
 Gill on Indian ink,               2  lb     On,                           305
 Gilpin's tables. On,        204, 329    Lavoisier on the diamond,         197
 Glass. To etch on, .             357    Lead ores.       Analized,   83, 86,
 Gluten. On,                         26      230, 231 ; found in antient
 Grassettfs aerial voyage,         188       mirrors, 293 ; but not an in
 Gnw /W.r. Estimate,               183      tended ingredient,             294
 Green. To dye,                   324    Learned Societiis, 92, 186, 283,
 Guersen on phosphoric acid,       15
                                       7                                   37*
                                         Leather.     On   the manufacture
 Hausman on calico printing, 323            of,            6a, 63, 140, 293
                                                 _
 Hellycr 's plate after Dayes, 370       Lightning.     To relieve from ef
 Hclmont's experiments on vege              fects of,                      306
     tation,                      319    Little's observations on barome
Henley's explanation of inscrip             ter at Teneriffe,               37
     tion on Babylonian        brick,    Longevity,                        192
                                  250    Lunctas of India. On the,           11
Hemp. On strength ofj             341
//erring fishery. On,             2 18   Mackrae on the Kookies or
Horse-hoeing.
                    On,           180       Lunctas,                        I(
Horses.        Experiments on urine      Macquer's experiments on dia-
     of,                          ijt       monds,                         •97
Howard on the clouds,                  ^ Madreptritc.     AnaKzed,        238
HotiL'ard's fulminating mercury.         Manganese ore.     Analized,     240
     Burket on, 169; Hume on,            Mechain on the meridian,         371
                                  305    Medicine, pneumatic.       Ou, 171,
Human teeth analized,             3 13                              234, 360
Humboldt's geological sketch of          Meteor, singular,          19 1, 279
     South America,               347    Meteorology,                 5, 191
Hume on nitrous ether by ni              Melilite. Analized,                79
    trate of mercury,             305    Mercury,      Red oxide of, 139;
Hyacinth. On the,                 203       fulminating, 169,3055 black
Hydrometers.       On,       304, 329       oxide of,                     225
                                         Metals.     On antient mixtures
India. On people of,                 11     of,                           2 89
Indian ink. On composition of,           Meux's brewery,       40, 164, 275
                                  210    Millet, a prize question,          93
Iron.       On alkalized oxide of,       Mirrors. On antient,             289
    323   ;  white oxide of,      325    Mitchill on cinis,               267
                                         Mountains.      Geological    details
Klaproth. Analyses by, 76, 230,             respecting,                   347
    ,243, 256, 267, 289; on em           Muriate, of ammonia, native
    ploying platina in porcelain            analized, 76, 77; of barytes,       ¦
 _ .painting,
    1         o-                  13c       Experiments on,               r6»
Kniyht's apparatus to prepare
    fluoric acid,                        Nankeen   colour.    To  dye,   149.
Rookies of India. On the,            11
                                         Nettles, a prize question,         93
Lagrange's analysis of ambergris,        Ken: Zealand flax. On            34'
                             88, 131     Nimbus clouds. On,                 10
                                                                     Nitrate

                                 INDEX.                                      379
Nitrate of silver.       Experiments        Publications.     New, 76, 188,
   on,                                158                 230, 284, 307, 364
Nitrous eihtr by nitrate of mer             Pumice sto'ie. Analized,         237
   cury,                       170, 305     Putrefaction. On,                   22
                                            Rain. On the production of, 8
Oak-bark, chemically examined, Ramsay on curing the bite of a
   S'9 ; substitutes for,
                                      1 40     snake,                         1 25
(Economical Societies, 92, i86<* Red oxide of mercury. New way
                               283, 371        to prepare,                    139
         '
Opium.      A kind   of  tallow   in   the  Royal    Academy of Madrid,         92
   fecola of,                           30 Royal Institution,                28 g
Optics.    Improvements in, 327             Ruby. On the,                    200
Oranges     covered     naturally    with
   wax,                                 30 Saint Pclerslurgh Economical So
Ornithology,                          359      ciety,                           93
Oxide, white.       Of iron,         325    Saffron. Experiments on,            30
                                            Salts, sundry native. Analyzed,
Palladium.      On,                   1&%
                                                                                76
Peak of Teneriffe.       On the, 3 1 ; Sapphire.          On the,             20 1
   height of, 37 ; Tilesius on, Schercr on benzoic acid,                      1 jl
                                      286 Schutze's black oxide of mercury,
Pearl- stone. Analized,               243
Peat earth. Analized,                 310 Seneca on mirrors,                  291
Pepys on gems, 193 ; analysis of Sharks. On,                                  3 17
   human teeth,                       313   Shower of stones,                 2JI
Ptrisenpic     spectacles    described, Sili. On strength of,                341
                      ,      .        327   Silif raw, is covered with wax,
Phosphate     of  soda.      Improved
   method of preparing,                 95  Silver,   nitrate of.   Experiments
Phosphoric acid. On,                  157       on,                            158
Piston-safety. Edelcrantz's, 162            Skins.    On tanning, 60, 63, 140,
Pitch stone.     Analized,            236
Plague.      On the,                  288    Snake bite cured     by volatile al
Plants. On fecula of,                   22      kali,                  ISC,    128
Platina applied to porcelain, 135           Society    of   National     Economy
Pneumatic medicine.           On, 171,          Haarlem,                        93
     ¦
                              234, 360      Solar eclipse,                      92
                                '
Polishing stuff 'for steel,           325   Sou/hern's experiments on fric
Porcelain. To coat with platina,                tion,                          120
                                   .  }H     Spectacle-glasses.    Improvement
Portable blast-furnace.         Aikin's,        in form of,                    327
                                       166  Speculum, antient. Analyzed, 289
Potash in buck wheat,                   9;  Spirits. On specific gravities of,
Printing, calico.       On,           323                               204,329
Prize questions, 93, 186, 285,              Stealing,   a virtue in some com
                                      373       munities,                  15,   18
Proust On fecula,                       22   Steam-engines.     Woolf's     boiler
Prussian blue. Curious produc                   for,                            40
    tion of,                          326   Steam-valve.      Woolf's,         164
Prustie acid. To obtain pure, 9           j Stencilling. Hints respecting, 96
                                                                           Stents,

j$o                             INDEX.
                                          TWEA bold         experiment*    vitti
£«w^ vic«<r»l *rjuysw         ©£   564       tke j^ne,'                     2SS
                                          r*."re-*5^*».        A    new,   162,
                                                                            164
                                          r.frzJurs. Expensesa am, 30.
                                                            63,146,193,3;*
                                          r^-cjfcj^ Ok,                     319
                                          /acroanSM, 47. «* 5 »«-
  «tvx   «£,                        64       :=¦  :.-.                      jzo
                                             i< 111*11.                125, I rS
                                          r«jyr     r'jkro^          Tie &0-
                                             s*s»                           : :5
     '•
        : .-.    \ i. :
                        -
                            T . ,v..- *
                                          7"*.-arT  jc   pmcTt. "ir   ¦,
                                                                            35 J
     MM       .. k                 rj*
                       *to>  4^k.-«.   *.  - -  «m.    ."I.

    -I
    1-
- I


                   Thilc . Mag . VoL.XVR. PI .11
Fig.                Fig.x.
          Fin .6 .
  Fin. 4.
                                              sculf.


                    .
XhOoJ£*f.MM.T<rlJXm
     Fuj.3 .


                          Th&> . May.fl .TV. VolJWIL .
                  Inches
1 r i I i i I t i    T  1
                                         Xowry   sculp.


    P/uS„. Mh yfci IXKM. V.
i .

     ¦
              ' ,5-'
       ¦",.- FACT'S.
       ;..*:#
     ¦¦¦:
  v.
  ¦
^

2hao.Mag.n:y.VoiJxyjL.
            Zowry sculp.

    ¦
  ¦
L

Fiff.3.
        %


runHu /v w v'.^im

j*Adt>.-jrwM n.rotxm
             Lfmii, %fivtfp


';
   I


    ThiioJtu,!'/ ni.lol.U7L
                lnri.\ Uti/f
e/<
                    ';.)

'J..CV--
    Sfi


    -
  * ¦>
-

 18
i
52
    |H|||||||IH||||jlllltlll
                             o



v
VULTCRR OF P0VD1CHRRRY.
                           ¦
                        or


*v*
     tl.Wilfrt fni*Jt*
                       MiM b, A.TiU.^h Htftf&tM-
'IO.
                                      >

 PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE:
                                 COMPREHENDING
           THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF SCIENCE,
                  THE LIBERAL AND FINE ARTS,
               AGRICULTURE,                  MANUFACTURES,
                                           AND
                                  COMMERCE.
                BY ALEXANDER TILLOCH,
HONORARY        MEMBER OF THE ROYAL IRISH ACADEMY,                    &Ct &C. &9.
    " Nee aranearum sane textus ideo melior quia ex se fila gignunt, nee noiur
vilior quia ex alienis libamus ut apes." Jos r. Lips. Monit. Ftlit. lib. i. cap. i.
                                  VOL. XVIII.
                                    LONDON:
                 Printed for Alexander Tilloch,
                    By   J.  Taylor, Blacl-Hirte-Cmr*, Flcct-itrett :
And    sold by Messrs.   Richardson, Cornhill j Cadill and Davies, Strand           j
      Longman and Rees, Pater-noster Rowj Debrett, Piccadilly j
            Murray, Fleet-street;         Symonds, Pater-noster Row;
                  Bell, Oxford-street ; Vernor and Hood,
                     Poultry | Harding, St. James's-street }
                         Bell and Bradfute, Edinburgh;
                            Brash and Reid, Glasgow |
                             and  Gilbert     and Hodces,
                                        Dublin.


                          CONTENTS
                                 OF THE
          EIGHTEENTH VOLUME.
 I. TACTS        illustrative of the Shrinkage and Expansion of
     Cast Iron, &c. £#c.        .% David Mushet, Esq. of t lie
     Colder Iron-Works                                              3
 II. Of the Herring Fishery. Translated from the French
     of M. Duhamel and others                                      12
 III. Sketch of a Geological Delineation of South America.
     By F. A. Von Humboldt                                        26
 IV. Natural       History and Anatomical Description of a new
     Genus of Fish named Polyptera, found in the Nile. 'By
     G. Geoffuoy                                                  3(5
V. Account of the        Process  followed  by M. Pierre Jaquks
     Papillon for dyeing Turkey Red                               43
VI. The Life of John Dollond, F.R.S.,                   Inventor   of
    the Achromatic Telescope                                      4/
VN. Memoir by Loni Napier, of Merchiston, the celebrated
    Inventor of tlie Logarithms, on his different (hntrivanceh
    "for   the Defence of this Island ;" with Remarks       ....  53
VIII.     Observations on Dr. Wollaston's           Statemetits re
    specting    an Improvement        in the Form    if   Spectacle-
    Glasses.     By   William Jones,        Esq. F.Am. P. S.    Op
    tician, Holborn                                               65
IX. Thirteenth Communication from Dr. Thornton, re
    lative to Pneumatic Medicine                                  71
X. On the Influence of the component Parts of the Soil on
    Vegetation.      By M. Otto                                   75
XI.     On the Use of Steatites in the       Art of engraving     on
    Stones                                                        63
XII.    Notices respecting New Books                              85
XIII.    Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles ......... 90
XIV.     Experiments made for the Purpose of ascertaining
   whether there be a real Acid of Cobalt ; or, in other IVcrds,
   u hellier Cobalt actually unites with Oxygen to the Degree
   necessary for Acidification.         By C. F. Blcholz    .... 97
XV. Memorial of Mr. E. G. J. Crook i:kxs respecting
   the Distillation of Spirits, &c. in Holland                  107
XVI. On the Cureof the Gout. By A. Stkniiouse, M.D.
   Edinburgh                                                    Ill
Vol. XVIII. No.         72.            a                 XVII.   On

                                  CONTENTS.
XVII.     On t fie. Use      of   Steamed        Potatoes as a Substitute           for
   Hay   to Cattle                                                                  116;
XV IH. A       demonstrable,           and at all Times prac
                                       accurate,
   ticable Mi-lluid of adjusting Hadley's Sextant so as to
  render the Back Observation equally correct with the Fore
   Observation ; and to measure an Jingle of 1 50, 1 60, or
   1 70 Degrees,   as accurately as one    30, 40, or 50 De
                                                         of'
  grees.     Communicated to the Astronomer ~Royal     Letter                 by
  dated Sept. SB, 1803.       By t/ie Rev. Michael Ward,
  of   Tarn worth, Staffordshire                           23                       1
XIX. On the Utility         the Oxygenated Muriatic Acid in
                                  of
  the Cure     of Scarlet Fever with an easij Mode
                                            5            pre                   of
  paring  it  for  Medical  Purposes.   By Mr.  John  Ayrey
  Brathwaite, Member                        of
                                   the Royal College     Sur                  of
  geons in London, and Surgeon to the Lancaster Di
  spensary                                                                          127
XX.   Report      Galvanic Experiments made on Men and
                 of
 Animals. Read to the Class            tkje Exact Sciences of
                                                    of
                    Turin     C. Rossi by
                     of of
 the Academy                                              131
XXI. A Report the Stale of His Majesty's Flock Fine-                          of
 uoolled Spanish Sheep dining the Years 1800 and 1801                                   ;
 with some Account         the Progress that has been wade
                                  of
 towards the Introduction of that valuable Breed into those
 Parts    ofthe. United Kingdom where fine Clothing Wools
 are grown with Adnai/tuge .                    .         I4Q
XXII. Medico-chemical. Researches         on the Virtues  and
 Principles      Cantliarides
                vf              extracted from
                                        :         Memoir             a                  of
  C. I»kai;poil        by    C. Deykux                         '.'                  145
XXIII.     Observations on the       Prutsic Acid, and                          Pro-
                                                                              the
  ducl'.on of a Pyrophorus                  ly   the Prussiate       of   Iron.  By
  D. II. Grin-del                                                                   151
XXIVi    Experiments on the Oil produced from the leaves
  of the Ixiurel Cherry. By C. Koloff of Magdeburg 153
XXV7. On the Ether suggested          Sir Isaac Newton,
                                                    by
  compared with the supposed newly discovered Principle                                 of
  Galvanism.     By Governor Pownall                    155
XXVI. On the Preparation, Culture, and Use the Orchis                of
  Root. By .}. Pi-royal, M. D                           159
XXVII. On th" Units employed
                      I'              the anlient People
                                                    by                                  rf
  Europe for poisoning their. yltrcws. By C. Coquebert
                                                                                    163
XXVII    I.   Experiment showing the Advantage                       of   Pcriscopic
  Spectacles.   By W. H. Wollaston, M".D. F.R.S. 165
XXIX.    Process for extracting the Salt, with Base of                    a
  Lime, contained in Yellow Cinchona. Communicated to
  M. Fourcuoy            by   C. Dksciiamps,             of    Lyons                167
          5                                                               XXX.       Or,

                          CONTENTS.
XXX.      On Galvanism.    By a Correspondent                             170
XXXI.      Sketch of a Geological Delineation           of   South Ame
  rica.    By F. A. Von Humboldt                                    172
XXXII.       Observations on the Condition         of   the Inhabitants
  of   tlie Cape of Good Hope                                             179
XXXIII.    Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles        187      ....
XXXIV.    Experiments to ascertain whet Iter there exists any
  Affinity betwixt Carbon and Clay, Lime and Silex, se
  parately or as Compounds united with tlie Oxide of Iron
 forming Iron Ores and Iron Stones. By. David Mushet,
  Esq. of the Colder Iron-Works                           193
XXXV. Researclies in regard to the Maimer in which Na
  tural Bodies exhibit Colours, and Experiments on a new
  Theory      that Pluenomenon. By S. F. Hermbstadt
             of'
                                                                          201
XXXVI.    Fourteenth Communication from Dr. Thornton
 relative to Pneumatic Medicine                  .207
XXXVII. History Astronomy for the Year 1903. Read
                         of
 at the College de France    Jerome de Lalande . . 209
                                    by
XXXVIII. A Letter to Governor Pownall from Dr.
  Thornton                                                                221
XXXIX.      Memoir on the Wool and Slieep                    of
                                                     Cuchemire
 find Bou/an.     Read in the Agricultural Society         Paris   of
  in the Sitting    of Frimaire      Year 9,
                                         7,       Alexander
                                                        by
  le Goux de Flaix, formerly an Officer                  of
                                                    Engineers,
  Member    if the Asiatic Society at Calcutta, &C .... 234
XL. Curious Extracts from old English Books, with
 Remarks which prove, that the Telescope, 6#c. were
 known in England much earlier than in any other
  Country                                                    245
XLI. Letter o/"Spallanzani to C. Senebier regard to           in
  Respiration                                                256
XLII. A full Description         the Method of preparing Mr.
                                    of
  George Blackman's Superfine Oil-Colour Cakes; as
                   to the Society for the Encouragement
                                                                           by of
  communicated
  Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce, and practised
  him in Presence    of a Committee appointed                by
                                                    tlie Society
  to ascertain the Merit      the Invention
                               of                            268
XLI IF. Description an improved Crane for Wharfs. By
                         of
  Mr. Robert Hall junior,            Basford, near Nottingham
                                         of
                                                                          270
XLIV.      Description    of   an   improved   Bucket
                                              for drawing
  Water out of deep       Wells. By Mr. George Russel 271
XLV. An   Examination       Dr.of        Wollaston's          Experiment
  on his Periscopic Spectacles.           By Mr.   William Jones,
  F.Am. P.S                                                               273
                                                             XLVI.        Me-

                                          CONTENTS.
 XLVI.    Memoir on the Culture of the Anatto Tree, arid ike
   Preparation of Anatto.     By C. Leucine                 275
XLVI I. Observations on the Possibility of collecting a cer
   tain Quantity of Succinic Acid during the Process of
  making Amber Varnish, without lessening the Property of
   the Varnish.    Bu M. Planche, Member of the Pharma
   ceutic Society of Paris                              ... 278
XLVIII. Notices respecting New Books                        280
XLIX. Proceedings of Learned Societies                      281
L. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles . . .            283
LI. Experiments to ascertain whether there exists any
  Affinity betwixt Carbon and Clay, Lime and Silex, se
  parately or as Compounds united with the Oxide of Iron
 forming Iron Ores and Iron Stones. By David Mushet,
   Esq.     the Calder Iron-JVorks
                of'                                         289
LI Experiments on preparing Potatoes in Digesters for
   I.
 feeding lean and fattening other Stock.         By tlie Rev.
  William Pierrepoxt, of Burton Park, Sussex... 29a
LI II. Description        an improved Eight-Day Clock, to
                                     of
  strike without    Fly invented
                           a         Mr. Edward Massey,
                                     ;                     by
   of Hunley,   in Staffordshire  .                   .     303
L1V. Account of Improvements for diminishing Friction
  in Clocks.     By Mr. Edward Massey,             Henley, in         of
  Staffordshire                                             305
LV. Observations on the Condition      the Inliabitants      theof               of
  Cape       of
            Good   Hope              „                      307
LVI.       Memorial             of   Mr. E. G. J. Crookeens                  respecting
   the     Distillation         of   Spirits, &c. in Holland                        315
LVI   I.    Figure         of   the Orbits           of   the new Planets.     By   Je
  rome ue Lalande                         .
                                          .   . ._                                  325
LVIII.       Letter to          Mr. Arthur Aiein from Dr. Thorn
  ton      .1                                                                      326
LIX. Life of John Henry Lamrert                                                    333
LX.   Addition to  Memoir on the Method
                                a                                       of   giving to
  Cotton and Linen Thread the Adrianople Red,                                and other
  fixed Colours.                By    J. M. Haussman                              340
LXI.       On Spontaneous             Inflammations. By C.             Bartholdi,
   Professor    Natural Philosophy a/id Chemistry .... 346
                      of
LXI Remarks on Men of gigantic Stature, and particu
      I.
  larly on the Irish Giant, O'Brien.        By Mr. Blair,
  Surgeon     the Lock
                  of    Hospital, &c.    &c            355
LXI it. Copy        Letter from Mr. Cutiibertson to Dr.
                       of   a
  Pearson, communicating an important and curious di
  stinguishing Properly between the Galvanic and Electric
  Fluids                                               35S
LX V. Proceedings
   1                     Learned Societies
                                     of                333
LXV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles           367

                                    THE
  PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE.
I.   Facts illustrative     of the Shrinkage and Expansion of Cast
    Iron, &c. &c.         By David       Musiiet, Lsq. of the Colder
    Iron IVorks*.
 JL he high temperature requisite to melt cast iron has pre
vented the chemical .and philosophical world in general from
becoming acquainted with many of its habitudes and pecu
liarities in the different stages of manufacture. -Those en
gaged in foundries are frequently prevented, from the hurry
and bustle which attends manufactories, from making ob
servations, and acquire no habit of detailing them.                Others
 again,    from   their   earliest  infancy,  have   been  accustomed    to
 observe, that certain appearances, time out of mind to them,
 had always followed certain actions performed.                  They ac
 quire   a  laconic  habit   of  reasoning ;   and   if  asked  how  such
 appearances       are   to  be*   accounted    for,    their  answer   is,
 " They must exist so and so — it is in the very nature of
 the   thing."
     Jt is difficult to conceive a more ample field for observa
 tion than an extensive foundry.                Combination, change,
 decomposition,        combustion,      and deflagration, are constantly
 performing      their  respective parts, and continually presenting
 matter under new and interesting appearances.
     Elementary substances, subject to no real change, are
 modified in a variety of ways by the alternation of heat and
 cold. The laws which govern these arc constantly exerted
 to produce effects equivalent to the exciting cause; and,
  while we often remain heedless spectators, these unerring
  operations are productive of phaenomena which frequently
  elude our sagacity or puzzle our judgment.
     The subject of contraction and expansion appears simple,
  and the presence or absence of caloric alone in the body
                        "  Communicated    by the author.
    VoETXVIII. No.          69.         A 2                       operated
        February 1804.

4                           Facts illustrative       of   the
operated, upon frequently explains,                      in   a most satisfactory
manner, the whole minutiae.
    But thisregards only the heating of certain substances
in temperatures short or fusing them. When the object of
experiment is exposed to a heat sufficient to fuse  it then             it,
 becomes subject to new laws as fluid, and exhibits phaeno-
                                               a
 mena entirely different.         By not taking the change of state
 from that of solid to fluid into the account, some writers
                    a             a
 have given an awkward and unsatisfactory account of the
 laws which regulate iron in these two different states.             Be
 fore
    I    proceed to detail some experiments made upon this
 subject,  I    shall trace out the different states of shrinkage
 and expansion, as observed in cast iron.
    In doing this shall divide shrinkage into two distinct
                        I
 operations 1st, Shrinkage, properly so called, when
                :                                                  mass       a
 of iron diminishes or shrinks within itself, and would ac
 tually displace        smaller quantity of water, and when no
                        a
degree    of  heat   short  of fusion would make             occupy its
                                                                   it
 former bulk or volume.            2d, Contraction, or that diminu
 tion of superficial measurement which anv body undergoes
 by evolving its caloric.        The surface in this case          never is
 injured   ;the   casting  will  be  found less than the pattern from
 which     it was formed, and simple heating will restore              to         it
 its greatest original volume.
    The former of these properties cannot exist without the
latter, but this last may take effect in full force in many
 minor operations without any appearance of shrinkage.                             I
only say appearance          for
                              ;     believe, abstractly speaking, the
                                      I
one    never    lakes  place    without    the other, though in such
various minute degrees that                often difficult to form any
                                          it   is
.estimate of the quantity.
    In castinsr pieces of ordnance we are enabled to judge
of the conjoint effects of shrinkage, contraction, and expan
 sion. We shall suppose that                 gun mould of any given
                                               a
length  is  filled  with fluid  cast  iron  not subject to these laws;
then the size and shape of the gun, when cold, would ex
actly correspond to the dimensions of the mould.
                                                                   "
                                                                     But
finding    that   the  piece  of  casting   was  considerably   altered,
that  it  had shrunk interiorly, was diminished in point of
length, and had lessened its diameter, we must seek for                                a
solution of these facts          the explanation of the causes re
                                  in
 spectively.
    First assuming, what shall be hereafter proved by direct
experiment, that cast iron occupies less volume when fluid
than when solid; thit             the act of the arrangement of the
                                  in
jnolceulas towards consolidation,              occupies
                                                    it      larger hulk
                                                                   a
                                  s                                 than

           Shrinkage and Expansion   of Cast Iron, &c.         -S
than at any other period ; and that, when cold, and in pro
portion to the absence of heat, so will the volume of the
metal be diminished.
    1st, then, Shrinkage appears to be dependent upon two
causes ; the gravitation of the fluid metal, and the expan
sion of the mould. The latter, I conceive, acts a very pow
erful part : the immense quantity of caloric combined with
the iron is in part easily and almost instantaneously com
municated through the sand to the iron box : this creates a
disposition to expand, in which it is greatly assisted by the
great pressure of fluid iron.   That portion of the metal in
contact with the interior of the mould is the first to lose its
fluidity, and is acted upon and forced to give way in the
same ratio of expansion before the subtle and denser fluid.
The diameter of the shell of the gun is at this period in
creased in every part ; the fluid iron in the interior descends
to occupy the enlarged space, and the head of the gun pre
sents an increasing chasm like the concave of a sand glass.
In proportion as the cast iron resolves itself into a solid, a
diminution of pressure should take place upon the mould :
this would inevitably follow, were not its force replaced by
the increased volume of the metal passing into a solid state,
which is equivalent to that law which I have termed
   2d, Expansion.      Of the extent of this operation we may
judge from the following facts : —All patterns of castings are
made somewhat larger than the piece of goods is wished to
be : in common cases 1 -8th of an inch to the foot is allowed,
but in many cases the allowance will be nearly 3-l6ths of
an inch. In the case of the gun, therefore, the mould would
be plus the allowance upon the pattern what space was
gained by beating the pattern to loose it from the sand, and
all the extra space acquired by the increased volume of
the consolidating     iron.   These, taken collectively, may
amount to l-4th or 5-10ths of an inch ; and so much less
will tlie diameter of the gun be found when cold, to what
it would have measured at the climax of its expansion.
   3d, Contraction immediately takes place of the metal
ceasing to expand s to its effects are chargeable the reduc
tion of the increased diameter of the gun, and which seems
merely in consequence of the escape of the caloric.
   The action or effect of these separate laws will intimately
depend upon the quality and fluidity of the metal : with the
same quality of iron different effects will be produced ac»
 cording to the division of the fluid, and with the same de
gree of division in the fluid the extent of the operation of
these laws will be different with the different qualities of
                              A3                          crude

6                       Facts   il last ratine of   the
 crude iron. Soft cast iron very hot will shrink and contract,
 less than iron equally hot but of a harder quality, or, which
 is the same thing, than iron containing less carbon.
      In casting cylinders, pipes, and other hollow machinery,
  the effects of expansion and contraction are manifested with
 out any great degree of shrinkage appearing.
      The diameter of the mould m all these castings is gene
  rally made from 1-Bth to 3-lo'ths per foot in diameter larger
  than the casting is wished to be ; while the space or vacuitv
  left betwixt the exterior and interior of the mould, called
  the thickness, is made less than the strength in metal is
  wished to be.
      When the cylinder is cold, however, the diameter, if pro
  perly allowed, will be found correct by the operation of con
  traction in cooling; while the thickness in metal will be
  found increased, though still correct, by an expansion or
  separation of the exterior and interior parts of the mould.
  This last is by the moulder called straining ; and- if great
  care is not taken to compress the sand firmly round about
  the mould, the thickness is sometimes increased so much
  as to render the manufacture unsaleable.             Should this ne
  cessary precaution    be sligltf lv  performed,    and  the thickness
  considerably    increased,   the    usual  expansion which takes,
  place   when  the  metal passes    into  the solid state becomes so-
• extensive as to effect a permanent increase          of the diameter
  of the casting, and destroy its use*. The united effects of
  these two causes force the sand to assume an elevated pos
  ture all round the mould, and occasion violent rents and
  fissures, which become immediately* filled with pale blue
  flame,, accompanied by a crackling noise like the snapping
  t>f electric matter.
      Shrinkage in these castings, particularly if large, would
  affect the solidity of the vessel by taking place to a consi
 derable extent upon the upper surface, immediately where the
  runner discharges the metal into the mould.              This is in a
  great  measure  counteracted     by feeding   these gates or runners,.
 after the mould is filled, with several ladles fulVof tluid iron,
 Mid keeping the communication open to the edge of the
    * The additional thickness nlwavs takes place to the cic'crior of the
mould. The pressure r;sn m;>re eu>ily act with effect ayainst the concave
than the convex Miic of the mould. The moulder is fuily aware of this
 i.ithe net of cooline, particularlyif the metal has been veiy hot and of   a
sliarn quality.   After he conceives the iion fairly consolidated through
out, he cms two openirtj*s.at least in the core or interior pnrt of the mould,
and penetrates to the red-hot suifacc.     This j;ives scope to the contrac
tion, of iht vessel, and preserves ihc casting frequently fioin being de
stroyed.
                                                                     easting

             Shrinkage and Expansion         of  Cust Iron, &c.             %
  casting by moving small iron rods up and down in the gate.
  The metal       is thus allowed to percolate into the chasm, if
  any is formed, and prevents any bad consequences likely to
  ensue from the general shrinkage of the mass.
      It is impossible to convey an exact idea of the extent or
  quantity of shrinkage that takes place in castings^ or pro
  portion it to the weight or dimensions of the original
  mass. The subject of contraction is more within the reach
  of measurement, and in many cases may be ascertained with
  great precision.
     The following bomb-shell gauges were ca9t from very
  clean wood patterns j the breadth of metal in the hoop was
 exactly 1-250 inches, and the thickness -450 inch.
      Diameter of Patterns.          iamcter when cist.      Contraction.
    1st Pattern 7-500 inches.          7'350 inche9.      •150    inch.
   2d              5-950               5-850               •100
   3d              5-500               5-430               •070
   4th             4-550               4*490               '060
   5th             4-060               4'020               •040
     The relative proportion           contraction to     the diameters
 will be as follows :
                                      —
 Contraction of No. I. -15,, equal to 1 -50th of the diameter.
                          II. -10,              l-59i
                         III. .07,              l'7Hfs
                         IV. -06,               1-73-ftV       •
                          V. '04,               1-100^
     It will be seen from this table, that the quantity of con
 traction is in a due relation to the diameter of the casting.
No. IV. seems an exception, however, and appears to have
shrunk more in proportion to its diameter than the other
 four.     This may with safety be laid to the score of error in
the moulding.         In casting flat surfaces, the dvgrcc of con
traction ia in a just proportion to the length of the article.
                                                                    Inches.
     A  front pattern of polished tin measured exactly              24-5
    When cast of soft gray iron, and cold, measured                 24-250
                                                    Contraction        -25
Equal to 1 -98th part the length of the pattern ; the height
of wliich, or rather breadth, was 20 inches ; its thickness a
quarter     of an inch.
    The contraction        of two ash-grate patterns was ascer
tained    as follows :
    First pattern measured in length               -     18-250 inches-
        When cast in soft iron             -       -     18035
                                          Contraction        -215
Equal to     l-84-f0*eth   part the length   of the pattern.
                                   A  4                            Second

                      Fads illustrative of  the
    Second pattern measured in length          -   1 1 MOO    inches
        When cast in soft iron         -        -  10*975
                                                       •
                                       Contraction       1 25
Equal to 1 -88-^111 part the length or" the pattern.
    The breadth of No. I. was 11 inches, that of No. II. 8\
inches : the thickness in both was '475 inch.
     I shall now finish this paper with some experiments made
upon the casting of cannon shot. This operation is per
formed by pouring the liquid iron into a mould which i»
divided into two semi-spheres.         The mould is possessed of
a joint, which preserves the sphericity of the shot.            It is
formed by careful turning to gauges made with great care
and exactness.      This operation exhibits very distinctly the
laws' of shrinkage1, contraction, and expansion; and from it
I mean to prove the truth of what I only before assumed:
 1st, That cast iron, when fluid, is then more dense than hv
any other state : 2d, That immediately upon its passing
from the fluid to the solid stale, it acquires its greatest vo
lume : and 3d, That when cold, and always in proportion
to the absence of heat, so will be the diminished diameter
of the shot.
     To prove that cast iron is denser in the fluid state, several
pieces of iron may be put into a ladle, and hot fluid iron
poured upon them ; they win* immediately rise to the sur
 face, and expose a considerable portion of their bulk above
 the surface of the liquid iron.      This buoyancy diminishes'}
 and as the pieces of metal approach more and more to the
 state of fusion that exists in the ladle, they gradually sink,
 tilT they disappear entirely under the surface ; they then
 rapidlv dissolve, and form a part of the fluid iron.
     Melted cast iron supports also lead and t'n* in the same
 manner ; but these soon become dissipated in the great heat
 of the fluid.
     If a 6-pounder shot is placed in the bottom of a 12-
 pouuder mould, or of any size larger, and hot melted metal
 poured in till' the mould is tilled, apparently a perfect shot
 is formed ; but a few blows upon the upper part of the
 sphere, around the gate or runner, detect the surface, of the
 small shot. The thickness of the iron here will not exceed
  I-lOth of an inch, while the bottom thickness will be nearly
 a. full inch ; and if the mould      exceeds in diameter that of
 a 12-pounder, the inequality of thickness is greater.           It is
 evident from this, that six pounds of fluid iron float six
 pounds of solid iron in the state of a sphere.            That this
  property is permanent, may be further understood iiom a
                                                      continuation^

          Shrinkage and Expansion       of  Cast   Iron, &c.         y
continuation of the same experiment.            If a short allowance
of time is made after       the mould   is filled   under the above
circumstances, and this dexterously inverted, a fair inclo*
sure will be found, possessing regular and equal thickness
of new metal on all sides of the minor ball.
    Tllis is easily accounted for upon the same principle.
When the mould was full, the ball, as usual, occupied its
place near the runner.        The iron first run into the mould,
meeting    with  the  greatest degree of cold, would immediately
consolidate upon the bottom : when the mould was inverted,
the ball would naturally tend to elevate itself to what was
formerly the bottom of the mould ; but its progress would
be arrested by that portion of the iron now become a solid,
and would remain stationary, more or less central in pro
portion to the fitness of the moment taken to perform the
operation.
    That cast iron occupies a greater bulk or volume imme
diately after it passes into the state of a solid, may be learned
from observation as well as direct experiment.              If a shot-
mould is carefully separated at a certain period after filling,
a metallic crust is formed, more or less thick, which is (he.
natural progress of consolidation, but which is at present
an envelope to a considerable portion of fluid contents.            In
 this state the expansion, if any has taken place in the shot
 and mould, is nearly the same; the former is easily extracted
 from the under and upper parts of the latter. In about two
 minutes after, however, the expansion of the shot is more
 rapid than that of the mould ; and at this period is difficult
 to disengage. As the heat is communicated to the mould,
 its dimensions enlarge, and the extraction of the shot is
 attended with less violent efforts.         The mould is alwavs
 filled by the shot till cooling has so far taken place as to re
 duce the shot-uiotikl to its former diameter.           Beyond this,
 however, the shot still continues to lessen it« bulk, so that
 when cold it will be found to have left its mould bv nearly
  l-Goth part of its diameter; In all cases where shot-moulds
 arc re-hlled before they have contracted, by cooling, to.
  their original diameter, their product in shot will be various
  as to dimensions.      The effects of this, particularly in sum
 mer, are inconceivable, and, though seldom advened to,
 will account often lor shot being rejected as unserviceable
 for not passing the gauge.        This subject 1 at one time paid
  particular  attention  to,  and,  to ascertain the fact rigorously-
 made the following experiments :
     1 selected   seven pairs of shot-moulds, well seasoned, of
 the following sizes, 3, 4, 6, o, 12,34. and 32-pounders,
             3                                                   These

  Iff                 Facts illustrative   of the         .
 These were cast or filled with ihe same quality of iron three
 times successively. The first interval of pouring was ten
 minutes, and the second fifteen minutes.
                                   Measured.          Weighed.
                                     Indies.         Lbs   Grs.
      3-pounder shot, 1st Cast        2-724            2  6015
                         2d           2-730            2  6031
                         3d           2-736            2  6070
      4-pounder shot, 1st             3-036            3  6125
                         2d           3-054            3  6234
                         3d           3-087           3   6289
      6-pounder shot, 1st             3-240           5   4813
                         2d           3-240           5   5031
                         3d           3-290           5   5250
      9-pounder shot, 1st            4-032            8   5906
                         2d          4-050            8   6016
                        3d           4-090            8   6236
     I2-pounder shot,   1st          4-440           II   5250
                        2d           4-444           11   54 80
                        3d           4-512           II   5781
    84-pounder shot, 1st             5-556          S3    3830
                        2d            5-57*         23    4485
                        3d           5-666          23    5690
    32-pounder    shot, 1st    ¦ ¦   6-114          31    5360
                        2d           6-156          31    6343
                        3d           6-269          32    1530
    Upon this table I have only to remark, that the ratio of
effect, both in the expansion and increase of weight, is ex
actly analogous to the weight or diameter of the ball, or, in
 other words, to the mass of fluid iron poured into the mould.
When the last round of pouring was finished, the moulds
possessed a temperature respectively to their sizes. . The
32-pounder mould wa9 thoroughly red-hot, though nearly
two inches in thickness and weighing 140 pounds.            In this
and in the C4-pounder mould a curious species of adhesion
had taken place in the bottom, betwixt the shot and the
mould, by the moulders called burning.            When the bullet
is broken off, the mould exhibits an elevated spongy mass
which resists the hardest-tempered steel.
    About two years after the above experiments were made,
I  paid particular attention to the effects likely to be produced
in a large way in the usual train of manufacture.         My oh-
aervations were conducted in a shop appropriated for shot-1
Casting. The length of the house was 30 feet, breadth 16,
fide walls 8 feet, with a pavilion roof of the common range
    The work performed here was the filling of about 150
                                                               pairi

          Shrinkage and Expansion      of Cast Iron, &c.          11
pairs of moulds, of all sizes, three times each clay. These
occupied the floor of brick in different ranges, and pre
sented a very large agsrregate of heated surface when poured.
The quantity of metal thus formed into shot at each cast
was nearly a ton.      In May 1796 the average temperature
of this workshop     for  several days during casting was 115*
Fahr. One day       a  spirit-of-wine thermometer burst in my
hand with a report like a pistol.      Its greatest range of scale
was 120°: the passages betwixt the moulds, for the move
ments of the pourers, were 1 30°.        In all these extra tempe
ratures I uniformly observed that a considerable portion of
the shot, particularly in the third cast, passed the gauge with
difficulty, and many of these found unserviceable for car-
ronades, where the windage allowed upon the calibre of the
piece is less.   In the middle of August in the same year,
during a period of very hot close weather, I made repeated
trials, and found the effects always proportioned to the-
tempcrature of the workshop. I shall finish this paper with
the particulars of one day's observations.
                                                   Temp, of Room.
       1st Cast, 9  in   the morning         -      -     65"
                  in 5 minutes of casting      rose to    SO
                  in 10                             to   1 12
                  in 15                             to  128
                  in 20                             to  140
        Greatest heat in 35 minutes, being three
           minutes after the pouring had ceased,        156
    From 128 to 1 56° I felt a sensation of cold similar to that
when approaching a lire in winter, accompanied by a con
siderable degree of shivering.        About 150° this sensation
wore off, and I felt comparatively comfortable.            Perspira
tion had now become so violent as to ooze through all parts
of my waistcoat, breeches, and stockings. The workmen
who carried the metal perspired in such a manner as to wet
their lar^c sacking trowsers as if they had been soaked in
water,     fhe moisture ran in such torrents from their faces
and arms, as to be distinctly heard hissing upon the heated
moulds. Their step and arms were more agitated than I had
ever before observed, and the sinews all over their bodies
were uncommonly large, and felt inflated to a great degree.
Two men performed the whole labour of pouring ; so that
each of thcov in 32 minutes carried half a ton of metal in
quantities, in hand-ladles, from forty to fifty pounds each
time. The spajc gone through each time, the return with
the empty ladle included, was nearly 120 feet, or fully
w                                                             etjual.

  \t                  Of  the Herring Fishery.
 equal, upon the whole travel, to half an English mile ; lh«
 halt" of which space was traversed with a ladle, metal in
 cluded, weighing 80 pounds. One of the men, immediately
 after this operation, emptied a pitcher of spring water at
 one draught which I estimated at five English pints.
    The phtenomena of the 2d cast were not so marked. So
much is the human body the child of habit, that I neither
 felt the same extent of sensation, nor remarked it upon the
workmen, although the thcrmonreter maintained itself for
some minutes at 156°.         In the afternoon the air began to
circulate, and the temperature of the shop became much
 more moderate. The third cast, however, soon destroyed
this pleasant change, and, before half done, the thermo
meter rose to 164P. Still the workmen seemed to suffer less
than in the morning, except on the legs. Most of the
ranges of large moulds were throwing off the caloric in
ruefle undulations, and exhibiting symptoms of approaching
redness. The smallness of the shop admitted only of 2^ feet
of passage betwixt range and range; which made the tem
 perature of this spot intolerable.
    When the cast was finished I had the doors and win
dows shut. This made the real state of the moulds visible.
The 18, 24, and 32-pounders were all of a dark glowing
red heat, and presented an arid and inhospitable glare with
which it was impossible long to exist.
II.   Of  the Herring FisJwry.        Translated from    the French
                  of M. Duhamel          and others.
               [Concluded fiom our last volume, p. 215.]
            A general  Idea  of i lie Curing of Herrings.
 X iif. French, Dutch, and English, cure herrings, some
white and some red, and some like anchovies.                But the
French and Dutcli cure but a small quantity of red herrings
in comparison of the white ones : the English, on the con
trary, redden the greatest part of the herrings taken in the
Yarmouth fishery.
    We have said already, that when the fishermen are near
enough the coast so as to deliver in the day the herrings
that thev catch at night, they sell them fresh ; but when
this delivery cannot be made quickly, they corn them in
the vessels ; sometimes they throw them into casks toge
ther with salt in a confused manner, and sometimes p«k
                                                              them

                     Of   tlie   Herring Fishery.                         13
them up in barrels.  As these operations, which necessity
sometimes requires to be done at sea, are executed better on
land, we have reserved a more particular account of them
for this place.
            Of Half-salted            or Corned Herrings.
  When the fishermen cannot bring their herrings to land
within twenty-four hours after they are caught, they give
them a half salting : it is an important point that this should
be done almost immediately after the herrings are taken out
of the water.
    This half salting is used likewise on land, when the her
rings are to be cured either in the white or red way : when
it is done at sea, it is as it were provisional, and serves to
keep the fish for two or three days without spoiling.       It is
done in different manners.      At sea, as it must be clone ex
peditiously, they do not dress the herrings, that           they  is,
do not take out the gills and entrails which   ;    very wrong,
                                                             is
as undressed herrings are fit only to be reddened, or half red
dened.     As to the half salting itself,       sometimes done
                                                   it   is
in this manner   :   they put   small quantity of herrings in a
                                  a
tub, and pour some salt upon them with their hands upon           :
this layer of salt they place one of herrings, and then an
other of salt;    after which they turn both herrings and salt
 up and down together. Another method of doing                 to it    is,
put  a  small quantity of herrings with some salt in      sort of a
copper pan, and then to mix and turn them about. These
half salted herrings are sometimes thrown pell-mell into                      a
cask, which   is   stopped up after a little salt has been put
between the herrings      :such herrings will keep for      long  a
time, provided they have been dressed, and that there be
salt enough put into the casks.
    Sometimes the half salted herrings are made up in bulk,
by   laying them on some part of the vessel, after they have
got the half salting, and adding      little more salt according
                                           a
as they are laid, and then covering the hulk with         sail to a
 prevent the salt from falling off. This method      not near so
                                                             is
good as the former, and herrings made up in this way are
only fit to be half reddened.       But casks are not to be had
 always   at sea, and it often happens that the men have not
time to dr^ss the herrings or to half salt them in        proper  a
 manner.
    On land, the half salting does not take place until the
 herrings have been first washed, dressed, &c.; and there
are different methods of half salting.
    In several orts they pour certain measure of herrings
             ]
                                       a
                                                                        into

 14                  Of the Herring Fishery.
into  a large tub, and immediately strew upon them a thin
layer of salt, which is repeated every time, according as
other measures of herrings are put in, until the tub is hill.
They do not stir them, hut let them take a proper propor
tion of salt before they pass to any other preparation.
    In other ports, the women, after having dressed the her
rings, put them in a trough, which is raised two feet above
the ground, and is open at one end : this end is a little lower
than the other, for the purpose of letting the fish slide out
of the trough after they have been half salted. According
as the herrings are put into the trough, the women strew
some salt upon them, and turn them, until every part of
them is equally covered with salt. They use about 150 lbs.
of salt for every last, that is, from ten to twelve thousand
herrings.    When this operation is over, the herrings are
drawn down into a basket, which is placed in a tub that
receives the salt which falls from the herrings.      They are
afterwards casked, as shall be described in the sequel.
 Of  the   Operation  of Dressing preparatory  to the making
                      of White Herrings.
   The herrings that are delivered fresh to the salters, as
likewise those that have been half salted at sea, are treated
in the same manner, unless the herrings of the second sort
have been dressed already at sea : which would be of great
advantage ; for the herrings that are salted before they are
dressed are much inferior to those that are first dressed
and then salted ; and in fact they never turn out well.
There is an order of the parliament of Rouen prohibiting
the mixing of them with the other sort : the fishermen,
however, find means to sell them to those who make red
herrings.    According as the fresh herrings are brought to
the saTting-place, they are poured into large lavers full of
water, some of which may contain several lasts of herrings.
The women then set about dressing them : and first of all
thev take them, one by one, near the head in the left hand,
and then press them between the fingers of the right, which
they draw downwards from the head to the tan, so as to
cleanse them and take off part of the scales ; after which,
raising up the cover of the gills, they take them out with
the first fingers, and along with them the stomach and
intestine, so that nothing remains in the body but the
pev or milt.     They usually make a light incision in the
neck with a small knife; but care must he taken not to cut
off the head, for herrings thus mutilated would be thrown
among the refuse.      According* as herrings are prepared in
          1                                                 this

                       Of   tlie Herring Fisliery.                15
this manner, they are put into baskets, the milt herrings
separately from the pey ones, to be carried over to the man
that is to salt them. All the offals are thrown into the sea.
                       Of   the Salter's Business.
    To fresh herrings      prepared as we have now described, the
ealters   give a half salting, such as has been explained al
ready. They then throw them, without order, into casks
or large barrels, which they fill up without                pressing
the herrings, and let them sink by themselves for some
hours j after which the coopers put on the heads of the
casks. This is called casking, or salting in urak.         The her
rings   are  left in  these   casks for a fortnight or three weeks.
This preparation is much the same as that which is used at
sea.     During that period the herrings sink and discharge
their water, and there is formed a brine that covers them.
Care must be taken not to let it flow off, for if the herrings
were left dry they would be spoiled.
              Of   the  Manner of Barrelling Herrings.
    When it is supposed that the herrings have got salt
enough, they are taken out of the casks, at sea or on land
no matter, and barrelled. They are first poured out of the
 casks into a laver, in which the women wash them in their
 own brine. In the ports, where there is plenty of salt, some
 wash them in new brine ; which method appears best, be
cause the old brine, being mixed with the blood and lymph
of the herrings, is more apt to be spoiled than the new brine.
 But if new brine be usea, it should not be too strong. Be
 the brine what it will, the herrings must be well cleansed
 from whatever dirt they may have contracted.              They are
 then taken put of the brine with perforated pallets or boards,
 and left to drip in wide baskets : when they have dripped
 sufficiently, the same women take them, one by one, and
 place thein in the barrels, pressing them as close together
 as they can, and always placing the bellies uppermost.           To
 press them the better (as it is of great consequence that they
 should be well pressed) the coopers use false bottoms, upon
 which they jump, and sometimes pressing machines. This
 precaution is particularly necessary in the barrelling of shot-
 ten herrings.       It is also to be remarked, that such herrings
 as are parched, split in the belly, &c, are thrown among
  the refuse.
     Salt is not generally used in the barrelling of herrings :
 however, if the barrels are made up to be sent by sea to hot
 climates, :i small quantity of large salt is scattered between
 the beds of herrings.
                                                                   In

    16                  Of   the  Herring Fishery.
      In some ports they leave the barrels, after they have been
   beaded, near one another, with the bung-holes uppermost,
   through which they pour in, at different times, some of the
   brine in which the herrings had been washed, after it has
   stood twenty-four hours in Targe casks to clarify by precipi
   tation.    The bungs are then closed, and the herrings are fit
   to be sold.
      It is to be noticed that old brine clarified is preferred to
   new brine, and that some salters disapprove of the custom
   of pouring in brine by the bung-hole, for they say it makes
  the fish lose part of the brine which it had imbibed.        But it
  does not appear how adding of new brine should make the
  herrings lose their own brine : it is probable that new brine
  is preferable to the old, which is mixed with the lymph and
  blood of the herrings.        But as salt is very dear in several
  ports, it is the interest of the salters to be sparing of it.
                  Of Curing Herrings      in Brittany.
     After having     dressed    and half salted them, they make
  them up in barrels, with      a layer of salt in the bottom, upon
 which they place a row of herrings, then another layer of
 salt, and so on alternately until the barrel is full, ending
 with a layer of salt. This quantity of salt forms a good
 deal of brine ; and as in some time the herrings sinkj they
 pour in new brine to fill up the barrels.
     Salt is cheap in Brittany ; and in fact, according to their
 method, much more salt is used than would be requisite.
 But perhaps their herrings would not keep otherwise ; for
 their method is in reality the same as that in urak, viz. mere
 casking, which we have described already. It would be
 much Abetter if experienced salters were employed, who
 would regularly go through the operations, of which an
 account has been given in the preceding paragraphs.
             Of flic Barrelling of Herrings in Holland.
    As herrings arc sometimes scarce near the coasts of Hol
land, the Dutch fish for them towards Shetland, to the
north of Scotland, or at Yarmouth ; and as such herrings
cannot be brought fresh to Holland, the fishers salt them in
cask?, and bring them home in that state.
    But whether the herrings lie brought fresh or salted, the
busses go up the canals, and the fish is delivered to the mer
chants.
    Kverv merchant gets his herrings prepared before his
house, the lower part of which is usually a store-room.
It' weather permits, the herrings are made up on the bank
                                                                 of

                             Of     the   Herring Fishery,                       17
of the    canal ;       if not,
                         this is done in the store-room, but al
ways     as soon as thefish    has been delivered, whether fresh
or salted.    The herrings are poured into vats; the fresh
ones are dressed, the bad ones arc thrown aside : in short,
the whole process is the same as that which is used in
France, with this only difference, that in France women
are employed in               it,
                           and in Holland men, who, being
stronger, pack up the herrings more close together and
more equally.
   Their herrings should be Salter than the French ones,
because they throw        little white salt between every bed of
                               a
herrings but they use white salt, which, as we have said
           ;
elsewhere,     thought to be weaker than that of Brouage
                is                                                           :   it
is for this reason, and because the herrings of the North Sea
are fat and oily, that some intelligent salters mix some
Brouage salt with the white, which makes the flesh of those
herrings firm.    Some people find fault with the Dutch her
rings for not being as free from liquor as the French ones                       :
but let them say what they will, the Dutch herrings are of
an excellent quality when half salted and casked imme
diately after they are taken; and there are'none among them
of two or three nights standing. The white Spanish and
Portuguese salt they use makes their herrings appear to
advantage      :  true, that such salt gives
                   it   is                      certain sharpness
                                                             a
to them, but they know how to correct                adding some
                                                              it   by
Brouage salt. In barrelling, they often make use of press                a
ing machine,' and           supposed that the brine which they
                              it
                              is
add after the herrings are barrelled makes them look well,
because they use new brine clarified                     by
                                               precipitation, and
passed through           a   sieve.
          Of some       Defects particular          White Herrings.
                                                   to
   Such herrings as have been                   too much cut in the neck,
sides,  or belly, in dressing, are considered defective.
   Burnt or rusty herrings are those that are too much dried
up   by  the salt, which happens either when new salt or too
much salt has been used, or when the herrings are salted
soon after spawning.     On the contrary, they are soft and
flabby when salt has been used too sparingly.      This imper
fection,   if   has not gone too far,
                it                        remedied       putting
                                                        is              by
some strong brine, or     small quantity of large salt, into the
                                    a
barrels, or,    there ate but few of them,
                   if                            making them     by
up together with herrings that have been properly cured.
   There arc some shoals of herrings of bad quality, either
                                                         a
because they are near their spawning time, or because they
   Vol. XVIII. No. 69.                         B            have

IS                      Of  the Herring Fishery.
have been on bad bottoms.            When salted they corrupt, and
are called herrings of bad water.
     Some herrings lose their water after being barrelled, and
become      yellow, fetid, and rusty.
     The fishers and salters are of opinion that herrings do not
keep well unless the milt and pey herrings are put in the
same barrels ; but picked herrings, all milts, have been
cured that kept wonderfully well.
Of     the Regulations    fur preventing Aluses in    the Sailing of
                                Herrings.
     At Dunkirk      there is a police established both for the fish
                  curing of herrings, and ever)' owner of a boat,
                                                                       •
ing    for  and
before he goes out, presents himself to a magistrate and
takes an oath that he will observe the regulations.          Among
other conditions, he promises not to salt any herrings but
 such as are caught in the twentv-four hours : and, to guard
against frauds in the salting, fhere are inspectors appointed,
 who are to be present when the herrings are salted in the
 town, and fix a mark upon the barrels.            Such herrings as
 could not be salted within the twenty-four hours are made
 into red herrings.
      One of the greatest abuser is that of putting into the bar
 rels some refuse herrings ; and it is a still greater one to
 make white herrings of those of more than two nights
 taking.      The herrings of one night being much better than
 those of two, it is proper to barrel them separately.
      On this account the arrete of the parliament of Rouen,
 anno 1765, prohibits the bringing into port, or unloading
 as fresh, any other herrings but those of one, two, or three
  nights.
      It orders, in art. 2, the masters of vessels going out on
  tire fishery, and the salters on land, not to dress, salt, or
  barrel, any herrings but those of one or two nights.            The
  herrings of three nights must be half-retldened {bouffis).
  When we say herring9 of one night, we mean the herrings
  that were caught preceding the duy of delivery.
      The North sea and Yarmouth herrings, which are salted
  at sea, have usually the advantage of being salted in due
  time, before those that are brought fresh into port ; and the
   picking out of large milt herrings diminishes the value of
   those that are made up for commercial purposes.
       The council of state has issued several orders against the
   abuses.      It has ordered,
       1.  That the herrings which are taken in the German Sea
                                  -                                and

                     Of  the  Herring Fishery.                 19
  and in what is called the Yarmouth fishery, and which are
  casked at sea, be barrelled separately,     in barrels marked
  with three flower-de-luces besides the merchant's mark.
     2. That the Channel herrings of one night, and salted,
  be marked with two flower-de-luces,        and those of two
  nights with one alone.
     3. That out of eighteen barrels in cask there shall be
 formed only twelve made-up barrels, each of which must
 weigh at least 282 lbs.
     4. That the salting merchants do put their own marks
 upon the barrels ; which is a very important point.
                        Of   Red Herrings.
    The English red herrings ought to be naturally the best
 of all, because they are made of Yarmouth herrings, and
 therefore of the best kind : besides that, they are of one
 night, because they are delivered on the coast immediately
 after being taken, and none of them are salted in the ves
 sels.   On the contrary, the red herrings that are cured in
 France are nor Yarmouth herrings (of which the French
 make white ones), but are caught near the coasts of France,
 and they are of different nights.        Yet, notwithstanding
 these and some other circumstances, the red herrings of
 the Channel sell more and look better than the English
 ones, which is attributed to their being smoked with very
 dry beech ; but they cannot bear navigation, or heat, as well
 as the English herrings.      The brown colour of these her
 rings, and their keeping better, may proceed from their
 being smoked and dried more than the French herrings ; or
 it may be owing to their being fatter. This matter may
 receive some elucidation from the sequel.
    As to the Dutch, when the herrings do not come to their
 coasts, as it happens in some years, they make white ones
of all they take, both in the North and at Yarmouth; for
 they do not make red herrings but of such as are caught
near their own coasts, and which have not been sold fresh.
    Of the  Utensils that are used in making Red Herrings.
    There are large tubs like those which are used in the dress
ing of white herrings. There are also several sorts of bas
kets, some of which serve for the herrings to drip in, and
some for other purposes, besides a quantity of switches
sharp at one end, barrels, &c.
               Of  the Stoves,  or Drying Places.
    There are stoves of different dimensions.    Some of them
are   in the lower part of the houses, others in the upper
                               B 2                         part.

40                       Of   tlw Herring Fishery*
part.   Some of them are small separate houses co*verca
with tiles, which are placed so as to let out the smoke. I
shall describe one of the largest of them. — It is divided into
three parts by two rows of a sort of ladders raised about six
feet above the ground, and which reach up to the roof. As
the herrings are about ten inches long, the laths, which
form, as it were, the steps of the ladders, are placed at the
distance of eleven inches from each other, so as to leave an
inch between the tails of one row and the heads of another.
On those laths, or steps, are placed the switches, or little
wooden spits, from which the herrings are suspended.       In
each of those spaces or funnels in which the herrings are
placed, there are two windows or vent-holes, which the di
rector of the process opens, whenever he thinks proper, to
prevent the herrings growing black.     To this circumstance
is probably owing the good colour of the French herrings.
 Underneath is a large hearth for the fire.     The whole is
closed up like a stove, but so as to admit a passage into it
when necessary.
              Of   the Cirri ng    of Red linings in France.
    The species and quality of the herring?, whether red or
white, are the same.         The omV difference         is,
                                                         that greater
care     taken not to cure in the white manner but those of
         is
one or two nights, whereas red herrings are sometimes made-
of those of three nights, although they are not near as good
for this purpose as the herrings of one night.
    Thev are not dressed, that is, the gills are not taken out,
nor are thev gutted, but thev are half-salted             ;for which
purpose, when they arc brought from the boat, they arc put
in   astorehouse on      large table, or on the floor, which must
                          a
be very even.     Two men turn about           hundred of them at
                                                   a
a- time with wooden pallets, whilst another man throws salt
upon them.       In short, thev are half salted in the same
manner as the herrings that are to be etired in the white
way and this may be done
     ;                                  large tubs, or otherwise.
                                         in
The ordinance of 10*80 allows for every last of herrings (be
tween ten and twelve thousand) three minots (about three
bushels) of salt.      If they are intended for the provinces
somen hat distant, they lie in the salt tubs for twenty-four
or thirty hours     ;for the Mediterranean, fortv-cight hours
                        if                                        ;
and for America, a little longer. After this they are washed
with great care          in
                        fresh water.          Itprohibited to wash
                                                   is
them in the   brine of  white  herrings,  or in that which flows off
after the half-salting        such brines were used the. herrings
                              :   if
would turn infallibly ia three or-four days- time. Some per-
              3                                                  «juv

                    Of    the   Herring Fishery.                        2\
sons think that weak brine made with new salt is preferable
to water quite fresh, and they say that it makes the her
rings look well.
   They are washed in baskets, which are plunged several
times into tubs of water. This is repeated until the salt is
dissolved.      According as they arc washed and have dripped
they are spitted, that is, strung by the head on the switches.
Care must be taken not to let them touch one another, so
that they may receive the warm air and the smoke in every
p.irt. According as the ssvitches or spits are thus made
up, they are handed to men who place them in the stoves,
beginning from the top. The lowest row of switches is
about six or seven feet above the hearth. When the rows
are all made up they arc left so for twenty-four hours, that
the herrings may drip before the fire is kindled.
   When the dripping is over they light the first fire, which
is kept up day and night without intermission for fourteen
or fifteen days, and inspected every two hours for the pur
pose of adding fuel to     it,or of stirring     itfor an equal de
                                                     ;
gree of heat must be kept up.           The fire      also now and
                                                         is
then pushed from one part of the hearth to another. The
managemeut of the fire requires, an experienced man, who
can keep the fire always at the same degree of heat, and pro
portionable to the quality of the herrings.         The fatter they
are the longer the fire must continue           but still
                                                 :           must be
                                                              it
a  gentle   fire
              ;    and
                     it   must  cease  when    the   herrings are fit
for the next part of the process.
   After the fire has been kept for fortnight, or sometimes
for twenty days, more or less,            is a
                                         itdiscontinued for three
days   to let  the  herrings.dbcharge    their oil, which      called
                                                                   is
the pissing of the herrings.       When this         over, the fire
                                                      is                is
lighted again, and kept going with the same precautions
as before for five, six, and sometimes seven or eight days.
When the herrings are found to be perfectly dry, they are
taken down and put on table to be inspected, picked, &e.
                            a
   We may observe that fifteen days in the drying place                  is
sufficient tor the herrings that are to be consumed in France            ;
but those that arc to be sent to the Mediterranean require
twenty or five-and-twenty days, and sometimes more.
   In the picking of them, such as are shotten, too much
dried, &c. are set apart, and sold as reftise to the hucksters,
 &c. The rest are merchantable, and are barrelled.
   The fire must be made of wood which produces great
heat and smoke, and but little flame.           In some ports they
use oak, in some beech, and in others alder.              They take
care to keep the door of the drying-place constantly shut,
                                 B   3                            and

22                    Of   the Herring Fis/iery.
and    to warm the place gradually ; for which reason thev
begin with lighting a fire in the middle of it: twenty-four
hours after they light two other fires; and then two more,
if the   drying-place is large.
    Care must be taken not to let the herrings get too warm :
however, about the end of the process a smart fire is made
to give them a perfect drying, and the entrance of the stove
is closed with a large cloth.
     *•>
        Of llw  Preparation    of Red Herrings in .England.
    The method of curing        red herrings at Yarmouth is very
nearly    the same   as that  we have now described.    But as the
English     make*  red   herrings  of almost  all those they take,
their establishments for this purpose are generally larger
than ours. Some of their drying-places are fifty or sixty
feet high, and may contain six or seven hundred thousand
herrings j which causes a great oeconomy of wood and of
hands.
    When the herrings have dripped, the fires are lighted
much in the same manner as in France, and are continued
for thirteen days, after which the herrings are left for three
days in the piss.       Then the fires are lighted again and kept
for eight days, at the expiration of which they are left again
in the piss for four days, and then they get the last fire,
which lasts three days.
    Thus their herrings remain in the drying-places for near
five weeks, whereas in France this process lasts only about
twenty-one or twenty-three days.           It is true, that as the
Yarmouth herrings are fatter than those of the Channel,
they take more time to dry, and that if they were not dry
enough they would corrupt, particularly if they were to be
sent to remote and hot countries.
    Some people find fault with the English herrings on ac
count of their being of a darker colour than the French her
 rings ; but this is not a real imperfection, as their colour is
owing to their being fatter, on which account they must
be kept longer in the stoves : some are of opinion, that
when the English use beech in their stoves their herrings
are less brown than when they burn oak; and we arc not
to imagine that they heat their stoves with pit coal.         It is
certain that the Yarmouth herrings are of a superior quality,
and that they are cured very soon after being taken ; which
is a considerable advantage.          Hut as there is no police to
regulate the package of them, as there is in Holland and in
several ports of France, bad herrings are often found in the
Yarmouth barrels intermixed with the irood ones.
                                                                Of

                    Of  the  Herring Fisliery.                £3
       Of some Imperfections peculiar to Red" Herrings.
   Such herrings as have stuck together when drying, lose
their skin in the separating of them, and are therefore un
merchantable. Those that have got too much fire, or, what
is worse, are burnt, are likewise set apart with the refuse.
   Although it is allowed to cure herrings of three nights
taking, yet it would be proper to put those of one, two,
and three nights in separate barrels, as the herrings of one
night are infinitely better than the others, and those of three
nights are of a very inferior quality.    As to the herrings of
four nights, it is not allowed to sell them at all. There
should be also a prohibition against salting with old brine,
of any sort whatsoever, those herrings that are to be cured
in this manner.
Of   a Sort  of Half-cured Herrings, called Eouffis [swelled),
                    Crarquelots,  or Appetits.
   These herrings do not keep long, and are usually made
of shotten herrings,    and of those of several nights, which
arc not fit to be cured in the white nor even in the red man
ner. As they are ready sooner than the red herrings, they
find purchasers, and would be very delicate if they were
made of good herrings, and attention paid to the curing of
thein. They are called iouffis (swelled), because the smart
/ire they are put to swells them.
   It is not allowed to salt the herrings, that are to be cured
as red herrings, in the brine of the white ones ; but, on the
contrary, fl is usual to make use of this brine for salting the
herrings we are now treating of. For they say that new salt
would make them crack ; which, indeed, is not probable.
Be this as it mav, this method of curing herrings is entirely
left to the women.
   According as the women receive the herrings they put
them into large tubs, containing a quantity of brine, without
pressing them against one another. Many of them are
salted enough in the course of twenty-four hours : but the
shotten herrings, as they discharge more blood than the
full ones, are left in the brine for several days, and there ia
no danger of their taking too much salt.        When they are
taken out of the tubs thev are filed upon switches or rods,
and then hung up in small stoves that may contain five or
six thousand herrings.      It is not usual to let them drip ;
but as soon as the last rows are placed the fire is lighted.
However, at first they put up only one-half of them, and
 keep the fire going for six hours ; alter which they put up
                                B 4                          the

24                             Of   tlie   Herring Fishery.
the other half, and a clear fire is continued for nine hours
more. The stoves are heated with alder alone, dry pieces
of which are used for the first fifteen hours ; after which the
herrings swell, as they had not discharged their water. After
fifteen or sixteen hours the fire made of dry wood is stop-
        and, for the purpose of giving the herrings gold co-
     1>ed
       ;                                                                    a
 our, the fire     then made of pieces of green wood, which
                          is
are kept burning so as to emit         great deal of smoke and
                                                        a
no flame.     This fire             is
                           made merely to give the herrings                           a
colour, for they have been dried already        the action oftheby
smart fire.    When the second fire has ceased the herrings
are left to cool in the stove for about an hour, and are then
taken down.
    If there happens to be great demand for herrings cured
                                           a
in this manner, they sometimes put fresh herrings that have
got.no salt at all     the stoves.
                               in    They are very nice to the
taste immediately after they are taken down, but do not
keep; and accordingly this practice should not be allowed.
    Herrings of one night, when prepared and properly cured
in the manner already described, are very delicate; but, as
they must swim in brine,         great quantity of
                                             a           requisite    it    is
for last of herrings.
       a
Of Smoked Herrings, according                           to the Meclenburgh Method.
     It     is    said that as soon as the herrings are taken they are
     in brine for  short time, and then filed upon rods, and
                               a
 Eut
 ung up in sort of tower, made of brick or wood, which
                      a
is open at the top. A fire     made below of wood covered
                                               is
with moss, and, when       great quantity of smoke
                                         a              pro                      is
duced, the top of the tower       covered with mats.is  The
herrings are left there until they are supposed to be suf
ficiently dry, and then taken down and sold immediately.
They say these herrings are excellent, but they do not keep
long.
Of          the   Manner       of   Curing Herrings           that are to   be used as
                                               Baits.
   About the end of the season, when the herrings are bad,
the fishermen cure some of them for the purpose of baiting
their hooks.   Some fishermen salt them first      casks, that        in
is, they give them       half-salting; but others cut off the
                                    a
heads ana open them, from one end to the other, on the
side of the belly, and take out the intestine, as likewise the
milt and pey,     there be any.
                          if       They also scrape the inside
of the herrings with      knife    and when they have taken
                                     a              ;
cut the blood as much as possible, they throw them into                               a
                                                           tub

                   Of  the  Herring Fishery.                  25
tub full of fresh water, in which they wash them, rubbing
them with their fingers, particularly near the long bone.
From that tub they remove them into another containing
clean water, in which they wash them again. When they
are well washed, they are put into baskets and left to drip
until the next day.      About a hundred of them are then
put into a basket, in which, while two women shake them,
another scatters some salt upon them, until every part of
them is salted ; after which they are poured into a tub, in
the bottom whereof is a layer of salt. When the tub is
filled up to within about four inches of the brim, it is co
vered. The herrings will keep in this manner for baits, but
are not fit to be eaten.
From   the Transactions   of the Highland   Society of Scotland,
                            Volume   I.
    In the curing of herrings it is a matter of the utmost
consequence to attend to their condition during and after
the first salting. If they be allowed to lie in the first pickle
long, especially in barrels, exposed to the sun in hot wea
ther, they are very apt to spoil, at least that portion of
them which is nearest to the warm side of the barrels.
Now a spoiled herring is not only itself incapable of being
cured, but it spreads corruption to the others packed around
it ; and thus the evil spreads.    If the weather be rainy, and
the fish-barrels be left uncovered ; or if the weather be
warm ; or if the herrings before salting have been long in
a situation unfavourable for their keeping sound ; or if they
have acquired from any cause, as from the garbage not being
well removed, &c. &c, a tendency to spoil ; they ought to
be examined carefully and repeatedly,          should be soon
changed, and, on being re-salted and packed, should have
every unsound or suspected one thrown out.            The time,
therefore, which they may be allowed to lie in the first
pickle, must depend entirely on circumstances.           Perhaps
the first pickling may be done in troughs, or large tubs,
with more ease, expedition, cheapness, and safety, than in
barrels in the common way. The Dutch, it is said, fre
quently use troughs for this purpose, filling them well up
with fish, which touch and get the full effect of the pres~
sure of the lids or covers.      These are even made to press
the fish more firmly by means of weights, screws, wedges,
levers, or other mechanical powers.
                                                    III.  Sketch

                               [   26   ]
III.   Sketch   of   a Geological Delineation    of South Aitlcriea.
                     By F. A. Von Humboldt.
                [Continued from our last volume, p. 357.]
 JL he cordillera of Parima never reaches to the same height
as the Sierra Nevada in the province of Caraccas, which is
2350 toises.    Their highest summit seems to be the Cerro
He la Esmeralda, or the mountain Duida, which, by trigo
nometrical   measurement, I found to be 1323 toises above
the surface  of the sea, which is the height also of the Ca-
nigou.    This  mountain is situated in a delightful plain co
vered with ananas and palms : the monstrous mass which
it exhibits towards the Mission and the rivers Canu-canuma
and Tamatama, and the flames it vomits up towards the
end of the rainy season, give it a romantic and majestic ap
pearance.    No Indian is able to clamber up to the top of
this mountain and the rocks of its summit without a week's
labour, because the luxuriance of vegetation in this climate
impedes the progress of travelling.   Next to the Duida, the
Maraguaca, more towards the east of the river Simirimoni,
and the high cordillera of Cunarami and Calitamini, which
at Maypure and St. Barbara is known under the false name
of Sipapo, are the highest summits of the chain ; they are
from 1000 to 1100 toises in height.. The common height
of the cordillera, however, does not exceed 600 toiscs, and
sometimes it is less, as the part situated between the left
bank of the Cassiguiare, an arm of the Orinoco which
connects together the Rio Negro and the river Amazon,
and the sources of the cataracts and Piramena between Ca-
richana and Morocotc, is destroyed, and still exhibits insu
lated rocks rising from the ground.     The cause of this de
struction seems to have been an eruption of water from the
bason of the Amazon river towards the bason of Calabozo
and Baxo-orinoco, which differ in height about lGO toises.
   The geological chart of this district which I have con
structed represents an immense valley which unites the
Llanos of the Rio Negro, Cassiguiare, and Amazon, with
those of the province of Caraccas, Barcelona, and Cumana ;
a valley which sinks down towards the north, and is inter
sected bv a large series of single rocks which show the di
rection of the old cordillera on the banks of the Guaviare
and Nuta in the province of Cassemora. The eastern ex
tremity of this valley is the lowest part of       it,
                                                and therefore
the remains of the water of the Orinoco cut out for itself        a
                                                                bed

         Geological Delineation     of South America.             97
bed   in this place.       This cdrdillcra has two remarkable
properties.    In   the   first   place, as has been remarked in
other ridges, the southern declivity is much steeper than
the northern : the high summits of Caravami, Jao, of the
volcano of Duida, Maraguaca, &c, all lie towards the
south, and are there cut into perpendicular precipices.           In
the second place, this cordillera does not scein to contain a
single rock of alluvial mountains, and consequently has bor
rowed nothing from the organized kingdom.               On our pas
sage    over  this ridge we  observed    nothing but granite, gnieis,
micaceous schist, and hornblend schist; nowhere a covering
of sand-stone or alluvial chalk, which on the cordillera of
Venezuela on the coast rises to the height of 976 toises
above the level of the sea. Had the proximity of the equator
and the rotation of the earth any influence on this pheno
menon ?
    The third chain of original mountains, the cordillera of
 Chiquitos, is known only from the accounts of some per
 sons who have resided             at Buenos-Ayres     and travelled
 through the Pampas.            It unites the Andes of Peru and
 Chili with the ridges of Brasil and Paraguay as it stretches
 from La Paz, Potosi, and Tucuman, through the provinces
 of Maxos, Chiquitos, and Chaco, towards the government
 of the Mines and of St. Paul in Brasil. Their highest sumr
 mits seem to be situated between the latitude of 15° and 20°
 south, as the streams between the rivers Amazon and La
 Plata divide themselves at that height.
     Between the three cordillcras, the direction of which we
 have hitherto followed, lie three broad and deep valleys.
  1st, The valley between the south side of the cordillera of
 Venezuela, on the coast, and the cordillera of the Cataracts,
 or the vailey of Orinoco and Apure, between latitude 8°
  and 10°.      2d, The valley of the rivers Negro and Amazon,
 bordered by the Parima ridge and the cordillera of Chiqui
  tos, between latitude 3° north and 10° south.- 3d, The val
  ley of Pampas of Buenos -Ayrcs, which extends from Saint
  Cruz of Sierra to Cape Virgin, between 1 9° and 52° south
  latitude. The first and second valley are in some measure
  united by the destruction of a part of the Parima cordillera.
  I do not know whether this be the case also with the Pampas
  and valley of the Amazon ;       it,    however, appears that
                                                                  it
                                                                  is
  not, though the Llanos of Monso form       a   sort of canal which
  descends from north-west to south-east. All these immense
  valleys or plains are entirely open towards the east, as they
  run out into  a    low sandy coast :     towards the west they are
  shut by    the chain of the high Andes. There are some creeks
                                                             (ulists)

  M           Geological Delineation of Suuik America.
   (anses) which proceed from east to west in the direction of
  the tropical current, and on that account extend further
  into the land the broader the continent is. The valleys of
  Apure and Orinoco are closed by the ridge which extends
  from Pampelona to Mcrida in longitude "3°, and the val
  ley of Pampas in longitude "0° : they both fall together a
  little towards the east, and seem to be covered by one and
  the same formation of alluvial strata.
      Tralles says, that in Swisserland there is more reason to
  wonder at the depth of the lakes than at the height of the
  mountains : I will venture to make a similar observation in
  regard to the Llanos or plains of South America.           How
 astonishing it is to see a continent which in its inte
  rior parts several hundred miles from the coast, and in the
 neighbourhood of mountains 3000 toises in height, is ele
 vated scarcely fifty toises above the surface of the sea !      If
 the flux in these places should rise to as great a height as
 at St. Malo and Bristol, and if more motion should be
 communicated to the ocean by earthquakes, the greater
 part of these valleys would be laid under water.             The
 highest     Llano  which  1 have measured   is that between   the.
 rivers Ymirida, Temi, Pimichia, Cassiguiare, and Guiainia
 (Rio Negro) ; it is 1 80 toises in height ; but it sinks down
 towards Atures in the north, as towards the river Amazon
 in the south. The valley of Orinoco and Apure is still
 much lower than that of Cassiguiare and Calabozo in the
 middle of the Llano where I made observations, in latitude
 8° S& 56" and longitude 70° 9' west from Paris. At An
 gostura, the capital of Guyana, latitude 8° 8' 24", longitude
 66°, it is only 33 toises, and eighty miles from the coast
 scarcely eight toises above the level of the sea. The plains
 of Lombardy, in Europe, have the greatest resemblance to
the Llanos on account of their small elevation.           Pavia is
only 34, and Cremona 24 toises in height ; the other plains
of Europe have a much greater elevation. In Saxony and
Lower Silesia the plains are only from 87 to ico toises
in height ; those of Bavaria and Swabia arc from 230 to
250. The declivity of the Llanos of America is so gentle,
their inequalities are so imperceptible, that no large river
flows to either side.     The Orinoco appears in the longitude
of about 70°, as if about to discharge itself in the sea towards
Portobello ; but at Cabrouta it turns to the east without the
least obstacle bein<j discovered either there or at St. Fernando
de Atabapo, in latitude 7° 55' 8", to oppose its course.        In
the large valley of Rio Negro, and of the Amazon river, is
a tract of land, in 2° or 3° north latitude, of not less than
                                                            1600

          Geological Delineation   of South America.         29
1600 square miles, which is bordered by the large rivers
Atabasso, Cassiguiare, Guiainia, and Orinoco, and repre
sents a parallelogram, in which the water flows on the four
opposite sides in opposite directions. In regard to the Ori
noco, I found a fall of 151 toises in the distance of 70 miles
from the mouth of Guaviare to the Apur6 5 but from the
capital to the sea not more than eight toises.     La Conda-
mine observed the same thing in regard to the river Ama
zon, from the narrow pass ot Paucis to Para, where it runs
through a district of 240 miles, but falls not more than 14
toises.   It is not improbable that there might have been
on the north side of the cordillera of the coast of Venezuela
a plain as much lower than the plain of Orinoco as the plain
of Rio Negro is higher than that of Orinoco, and on this
account the former plain was covered by the water of th»
bay.
   The two Llanos or plains which lie at the opposite ex
tremities of America exhibit a striking difference from that
which lies between them, namely, the vale of the river
Amazon. The latter is covered by so impenetrable forests
that rivers alone can force a passage through them, and that
scarcely any other animals but such as frequent trees can
live in that district ; so much is vegetation favoured by the
continual rains under the equator. The case is quite dif
ferent with the plains of Orinoco and Pampas ; they are
level valleys covered with herbs, and savannahs which con
tain only a few scattered palm-trees.     The same heat, the
same want of water, and the same phenomena of refrac
tion, that is to say, the inverted image of objects seen float
ing in the atmosphere, are observed here as in the deserts
of- Africa and Arabia.     But plains so perfect are nowhere
else to be found j for the Mesa de Pavone and the Mesa de
Guanipa in 800 square miles contain no eminence of eight
or ten inches in height. The plains of Lower Hungary,
on the west of Presburgh, have the greatest resemblance to
them ; for the flat land of La Mancha, Champagne, Westpha
lia, Brandenburgh, and Poland, is hilly when compared with
the Llanos of South America.       Nothing but a long stagna
tion of water could have produced so horizontal a bottom;
Traces of old cities are found here, but seldom are any seen
which rise like castles (La Piedra Guanan, longitude 69° 3',
latitude 1° 59' 48") in the Llano of Cassiguiard and of Rio.
Negro. But from St. Borja to the mouth of the Black river
Condamine observed no eminence ; and the Llano of Ori
noco is also without islands. As the Morros of San Juan
belong to the southern declivity of the cordillera of Vene
                                                        zuela,

 30         Geological Delineation  of Soal/t America.
zuola, an impetuous current of water must have swept every
thing along with it; and the present sea presents large space*
without islands : instead of islands there are in the Llanos
whole: uninterrupted portions of from 200 to 300 square
miles of surface which rise from two to five feet above the
plain, and which are called mesas or lancos ; which is as
much as to say, that they were shoals or sand-banks in the
antient sea. I must here observe, that the middle of the
plain of Orinoco is the most beautiful and levellest part of
it. The bottom of this immense bason rises up and becomes
unequal at the edge ; the plains therefore which one tra
verses between Guyana and Barcelona are less perfect and
level than those of Calabozo and Uritucu.
    This remarkable difference which we found between the
cordillera of Vcnezuola and that of the Cataracts, which is
that the latter consist of alluvial mountains entirely bare, is
observed between the northern Llano of the Orinoco and that
of the Rio Negro and river Amazon. In the former, the
original mountains are every where covered with compact
limestone, gypsum, and sandstone : in the latter the gra
nite every where appears.        The more one approaches the
equator   the thinner  is the stratum of sand which covers the
crust of earth on the original mountains : in a land where
vegetation is'so luxuriant, there is seen in the middle of fo
rests spaces of 40,000 square toises scarcely covered with
a few lichens, and which do not rise two inches above the
rest of the surface.    Will the same be discovered in Africa ?
for it is only in America and Africa that there is land under
the equator.
    Having taken a view     of the direction of the mountains
and valleys, or the form    of the inequalities of the earth, let
us now turn our attention to objects of more importance
which have been less examined, namely, the rising and fall
ing of the strata of the original mountains which form
this part of the earth I have traversed.      I have been con
vinced since 1792 that the rising of the original mountains
follows a general law, and that, making allowance for those
inequalities which may have been produced by trifling local
causes, and particularly veins and strata in mines, or by very
old valleys, the stratified coarse-grained granite, the foli
ated granite, and particularly the micaceous schist and ar
gillaceous schist, rise in the league 3$ by the miner's com
pass, as they form with the meridian of the place an angle
of 52^°. The falling of the strata is towards the north
west; that is to say, they fall parallel with a body that
might be thrown in the same direction, or the aperture of
                                                             the

          Geological Delineation      of South America.           SI
the angle of inclination (less than 90°) which it makes with
the earth's axis stands towards the north-eas-t.   The rising is
more constant than the falling, especially in the simple moun
tains (argillaceous schist, hornblend schist), or in the com
pound mountains with fewer crystallized grains, such as the
micaceous schist. In granite         (it   is,
                                        however, found very re
                                            — 4, and falling to
gularly stratified rising in the league          3
wards the north on the Schneekopfe, the Ochsenkopfe, the
Siebengebirge, and the Pyrenees,) and in the gnieis the at
traction of the crystallized mixed parts to each other seems
to have prevented the regular stratification      therefore more
                                                     ;
coincidence    is found among the micaceous and argillaceous
schist, and these first led me to the idea of the law of rising
during my tour to the Fichtelberg and the Thuringian fo
rest.    Since that time     I  have examined with great care
the angle of the strata of other original mountains in other
 parts of Germany,         in Swisserland, Italy, the southern
 parts of France, and the Pyrenees, and lately in Gallicia.
 Mr. Freieslcben, whose labours have been of so much ser
 vice to geology, assisted me in this examination         and we
                                                          ;
 were astonished     at the uniformity in the rising and falling
 of the mountains which we found at each step on one of
 the highest cordilleras of the earth, the Alps of Savoy, the
 Valais, and the Milanese.
     An examination of this phaenomenon, and of the identity
 of the strata, was one of the principal objects when under
                                                          I
 took a    voyage to America.       A measurement of the angles
 which I    have hitherto made on the cordillera of Venezuola
  and Parima gave again the result of my observations in
  Kurope  in   the chain of the micaceous schist mountains of
  Cavaral'.eda as far as Rio Mamon on the Silla de Caracas at
                                           ;
 the height of 100G toises       ; of the Rincon del Diablo, on
  mount Guigue      ;    the islands in the beautiful lake of Va
                        in
  lencia, which has almost the same elevation as the lake of
  Geneva, at the boundaries of the isthmus of Maniguare and
  Chupariparu   ;   on the hornblend schist which appears unco
  vered in the streets of the capital of Guyana, and also in the
  Cataracts, and on the stratified granite at the foot of the
  Duida.     Every where the strata form an angle of 50° with
   the meridian (in the league   3  —   by the Saxon compass) as
                                           4
   they rise from the north-east to south-west, and fall about
   from CO to 80 towards the north-west.
      This great coincidence     in the old and new world must
   excite serious considerations.       exhibits
                                       It          very important
                                                     a
   geological fact. After so many observations which         have
                                                              I
   made in places so far distant from each other^          can no
                                                          it
                                                               longer

 32            Geological Delineation         of South America.
 longer be believed that the             rising of the strata follows tire
 direction of the cordillera, and that the falling follows the
 declivity of the mountains.      The profile of many of the
 mountains, particularly a section of the mountains, such a*
 that of Genoa through the Bochetta, and of St. Gothard as
 tar a3 Franconia in Germany, which I intend to publish at
 a proper time, proves exactly the contrary.    The rising and
 declivity of the cordillera, the form of the small inequali
 ties of the earth, seem to be newer phsenomena.      A stream
 might scoop out a valley in this or in that direction ; might
 tear asunder a part of the cordillera, and give it apparently
 one direction or another.    The strata of the original moun
 tains appear, amidst all these angles of rising and falling
observed at present, to have existed before these changes at
the surface of the earth. They are the same at the summit
of the Alps, and in the mines into which we descend.
When one travels for 15 miles over strata of argillaceous
  schist, which arc inclined parallel to each other, at an an-
       of 70° towards the north-west, one can no longer be-
    Erle
   leve that they are deranged strata, which once stood hori
  zontal.    We must suppose mountains that were once 15
  miles in height, and that the whole mass had an uniform
  fall, and then reflect on the space which such mass woulda
  occupy   : and one must remember the strata on the heights
  of Genoa, or on the heights of Bochetta, or on St. Maurice,
  which arc exactly parallel and on the strata of the Fich-
                                  ;
  telberg of Gallicia, the Silla de Caracas of Robolo on the
 isthmus of Araya of Cassiguiare, in the neighbourhood of
 the equator. One must allow that this coincidence gives
 evidence of     cause which has acted at a very early period,
                 a
 and in general manner
           a                     cause which must have arisen
                                  by a
                              ;
 from the first attraction       which matter was forced toge
 ther to form    aspherical planet.
     This grand cause does not exclude local causes,    which  by
 individual smaller parts of matter were determined to ar
range themselves in this or in that manner, according to
the^aws of crystallization.      Delametherie has made an in
genious remark on this subject he shows the influence of
                                          :
a   large mountain (as    small nucleus) on the neighbouring
                          a
small mountains.       One must not forget that, besides the
general attraction towards the centre, all matters exercise            a
mutual attraction on each other.
     The crust of the earth, for will venture to speak only
                                         I
of this part, must be the result of an immense action of
powers of attraction of affinities, which determined, put
in equilibrium, and modified each ether.           M. Klugcl
                                                      thought

               Geological Delineatiu?i   of South America,        $3
thought he found, by calculation, that the great flattening
or" the earth must be on the west side of the north pole.
Has the axis of rotation been changed ? What will be the
inclination of the strata in the southern hemisphere ? Wc
are not acquainted with the cause ; let us rather continue to
examine the phsenomena.
   This falling of the strata of the original mountains in
the Cordillera of Vene/uola has a great and melancholy
influence on the fertility of the provinces of Caracas, Cu-
mana, and Barcelona ; the water which nitres through at
the summit of the mountain flows down according to the
direction of the strata, and for this reason there is great
want of water in the whole large district which lies on the
south side of the cordillcra, and therefore so many springs
and small streams burst forth on the northern declivity,
which, by this great quantity of moisture, and the super
abundance of wood, which shelters it almost the whole day
from the sun's rays, is rendered as unhealthful as it is fruit
ful.
   The alluvial mountains which I    have hitherto observed
arc almost under the same circumstances as in Europe. The
oldest seem to have experienced    the action of the same
causes    which   determined the strata of the original moun
tains,   as they rise in the league 3 — i, or as the seamen ex
press     N, 50 E. They oiten fall towards the south-east,
         it,
as in the Alps of Bern, the Valais, Tyrol, and Steyermark;
but the greater part of them, and particularly the newest,
which where       Ihave been are the most numerous, follow
no certain law their strata often lie horizontally, or rise
                    ;
towards the edge of the large dried-up basons, which in
America are called Llanos, and in Africa Deserts.
    La Condamine says that in Peru and Cjuito he observed
no petrifactions.     The cordillcra of Quito, however,      isnot
like that of F'arima, naked granite, for at Cuenca, and on
the south side, there       gypsum and alluvial chalk. Button
                           is
dwells much, in his Epoqiies de        Nature, on the question
                                         la
whether South America contains petrifactions            ?    have
                                                             I
found an immense quantity of them in calcareous alluvial
sandstone which covers the northern and southern decli
vity of the coast of Venezuela, from the summit of St.
Bcrnandin, and the Altos de Conoma, to the Cerro de Mea-
pire, or the headland of Puria and Trinidad. The same
stratum    found also in Tobago, Guadaloupe, and St. Do
           is
mingo.     An    immense quantity of sea and land shells,
which      Europe are seldom found mixed together, cellu-
          in
lariae, madrepores,     corallines, and astroitcs, are found in-
    Voi.. XVIII. No. fio.            C                 terspcrscd

34..           Geological Delineation  of South America.
 tei spewed     in this sandstone.   The shells themselves are half
 broken      : whole rocks consist merely of such remains re
 duced to powder. My fellow-traveller, Bonpland, discovered
-in them shells of the genus Pinna, Venus, and Ostrea, of
 which living specimens are still met with on that coast ; an
 observation of great importance to geology.           Every thing
 shows that this stratum, which 1 have seen only at the di
  stance of nine or ten miles from the present coast, is of very
  modem origin, and that the fluid in which it was produced
  had been in a state of violent motion.        The petrified shells
 in a much older stratum of compact limestone are scarcer
 «nd much differently stratified : they are anomia, terebratu-
  lites, &c. placed together in families, and in such a manner
 that it is seen that they have lived (as those of Mount
  Salive, the Heinberg near Gottingen, of Jena, and Geneva)
  on the spot where they are now tound petrified. They are
  not interspersed throughout the whole mass of the lime
  stone ; they are only peculiar to certain strata. Many rocks
  mny.be examined without finding any of these petrifactions;
   but where found they are in great quantity, and present
  themselves       chiefly on great heights ; peculiarities which
 they have in common with the shells found in the lime
   stone of the high Alps of Swisserland and Salzburg, which
  is identic with the hardened marl of Thuringia, a limestone
  which lies above the very old sandstone.
      I must observe also, that, besides the new sandstone
  stratum with a calcareous base, of which 1 have already
  spoken, the petrifactions do not often occur ; and I was
   particularlv astonished to find no single belemnites or am
  monites which are so common in all the mountains of
   Kit rope.     The Llano of Orinoco, and that even of Rio
   Negro, arc covered with a coarse grained breccia {nagel~
 Jiune) which contains no petrified shells, and perhaps covers
   the other alluvial strata with petrifactions.    But this breccia
   contains on the other hand petrified trunks of trees, which
   are sometimes       found of the length of a toise, and of the
  diameter of two feet.         They seem to belong to a kind of
   Malphigia.
      The sandstone which contains all kinds of marine ani
   mals (the quarry of Punta del Barrigon near Arayais of this
   sort) never exceeds the height of from 30 to 40 toises.        In
   sevei al places it forms the bottom of the Gulph of Mexico
    (Cabo ljlanco, Punta Araya).       In the compact limestone I
   never saw petrified shells above the height of 800 toises ;
   but other very new testimonies prove the residence of the
   water at much greater heights. Slate found on the Silla de        i
                                                            Caracas,

             Geological Delineation   of South America.       35
 Caracas, at the height of 1 130 toises, proves that the water
once, as on the Bonhommc in Savoy, formed this aperture
between the two peaks or pyramids of the Avila, an aper
 ture which is much older than the five counted in the Cor
dillera of the coast, namely, those of Rio Neveri, Unare,
Tuy, Mamon, and Guyaca. Among the mountains of the
 province of Cumana, there are very singular valleys of a
perfect circular form, which seem to be dried up lakes. Of
this kind are the valleys of Cumanacoa and St. Augustine,
507 toises in depth, which are celebrated for the refreshing
coolness which travellers experience in them.
    When the modern action of water is considered, two op
posite effects are observed : one recollects a very distant
          when the irruption of the sea formed the Gulph of
aoch,
    iriaco and the Golfo Triste ; separated Trinidad and Mar-
           from the main land, and convulsed the coast of
  fochima and Santa Fe, where the islands of la Boracha,
faretha
Picua, and Caracas, form a heap of ruins.          The sea then
attacked the land ; but the contest did not long continue :
the ocean again begins to draw back.         The islands Coche
and Cuagua are shoals which emerged from the water ; the
large plain of Salado, lying in Cumana, belongs to the Bay
of Cariaco, and is only 5^ toises above the level of the sea.
The hill on which the castle of St. Antonio is situated was
an island in this gulph, as an arm of the sea passed to the
north of Tatoraqual through the C haras towards Punta Dc-
legada, as is proved by a multitude of unaltered shells.      It
is observed here and at Barcelona that the sea is daily
retiring : in the harbour of Barcelona it has lost in 20 years
above 900 toises.      Is this decrease of the sea in the Gulph
of Mexico general, or is it the case here, a3 in the Mediter
ranean Sea, that it gains in one point and loses in another ?
This retreat of the sea must not be confounded with an
other real phenomenon easy to be explained, namely, the
decrease of fresh water, of rain, and of the rivers in this
continent.     The Orinoco, as we see it at present, is no
longer the shadow of what it was 1000 years ago, accord
ing to the evidence of the traces which the water has left
on both banks at the height of 70 or 80 toises. These traces
have long attracted the notice of learned Europeans who
have seen the Barraguan, the Cueva de Atarnipe (the bury
ing place of the Atures Indians, who formed a kind of
mummies), the Cerro Cuma, the Daminari, the Keri, Oco,
and Ouivitari, the bottom of which at present is scarcely
covered by the foam of the Cataracts of Maypure.          These
traces remind the Indians of a great inundation, during
                                 C 2                      which

86            Natural History and Anatomical Description
which many persons saved themselves on rafts of Agave^
and afterwards cut out inscriptions and hieroglyphics, with
which the granite of Urnana, of Incaramada, and the banks
of Cassiquiare, are seen covered, but of which no one at
present has the key.    This tradition, common among the
Indians of Erovato and of Parima, shows great analogy with
the mythology of the antients.    People think they read the
history of Deucalion, and Pauw would find the remembrance
of this flood not uninteresting.
                            [To   be concluded in our next.]
IV. Natural              History and Anatomical Description of a new
        Gemis   of Fisk      named Polyptera, found in the Nile.  By
        G. Geoffroy*.
It       is in general among fish with fixed branchras and a
cartilaginous skeleton that the most varied and most cu
rious forms arc found : it is there that the important modi
fications of some of the organs which constitute life necessa
rily determine the major differences in the rest of the or
ganization.        But among the abdominal fishes, where these
Beings       have so  great relation to each other, there is one
species alniost entirely different from those analagous to                   it,
and, as \vc may say, foreign in the midst of its family. This
no doubt           new object of consideration for natural history,
                    is
                     a
*nd worthy the attention of physiologists.
      This species, known in Egypt under the name of b'tchir,
      indeed so anomalous in regard to abdominal fishes, that
it is mav be said to have no other relation to them than in the
respective position of the pectoral and ventral fins        and that
                                                                   ;
 in    other respecis       entirely different.
                            it   is
        I.Physiognomy        the Bickir.
                                 of        The appearance of this
 fish might cause         to be considered as
                            it                     serpent, and on
                                                          a
 this account, indeed,          has been distinguished among the
                                      it
 Eirvptian*          by
                    the name of bickir or aboubektr      its head
                                                               :             is
 defended           by
                   broad osseous pieces, and its body        clothed
                                                                   is
 with large scales.            in some measure cased in armour.
                                 It   is
 It     isparticularly remarkable bv the extent of its abdomen,
 the. length of which           equal to four-sixths of its whole
                                      is
 bo ly.
       II. Organs       Motion. — The bickir seems to be deprived
                          of
  of that organ which acts the principal part in natation for           ;
  i'.s tail    exceedingly short, being equal at most to no more
               is
        * From Annates da Museum National d'lliuoirc Nartrel-'e, No.    i.
                                                                        than

           of a  new Genus   of Fish  named Pohjptera.         3?
than   a twelfth part of its whole length : but there is nothing
real in this inconveniency.      The Has of this fish, which
correspond to the extremities of the mammalia, are formed
in such a manner that it can employ them at pleasure, like
the phocae, either for natation, or walking, or forreptation.
We are already acquainted with a similar organization, that
of the Lophia, the pectoral and ventral fins of which are
placed at the end of carneous prolongations ; but this genus
belongs to the order of jugular fishes, where the extre
mities are found in an inverted order, and cannot serve for
attaching these animals to any body but under certain cir
cumstances.
    The bicliir then in this respect exhibits a more complete
analosry to quadrupeds.       To appreciate its just value we
shall here give a description of the pectoral and ventral fins.
    The anterior extremity, which is 2 inches J lines, is
longer than the posterior, and the arm is very little shorter
than the fin, being J inch 10 lines : it is very flat, naked
internally, and covered with scales only on the exterior
side : it contains all the bones which compose the anterior
extremity of quadrupeds.
    The omoplata is a large square piece at the top of which
is an apophysis, broad at the base, which articulates with
 the back part of the plates of the head : the sternum is of
an elongated     form, disposed transversely, and remarkable
 for a large groove situated before : below is the clavicular
bone which projects outwards in such a manner as to ac
company the humerus, and to serve like it for the articu
lation of the fore arm.      In regard to the humerus, it is a
very short small bone, of less breadth than the clavicle,
with which it is accompanied : all these small bones are.
separated only in young individuals : in adults they are
united in such a manner as to form one bone, where the
traces of their former separation are always indicated by
sutures.
    The fore arm is composed of two long, slender, and un
 equal bones, the cubitus and the radius, which scparateatan
angle of 50°.      A very ihin round osseous plate, which I
 consider  as a real carpus, occupies the centre of this separa
 tion, and on the semicircular base of this triangle the apo
 physes which defend the radii rest ; this kind of metacarpus
 is terminated by fins.
    Among the muscles with which the fore arm is provided,
 we distinguish an adductor, and particularly large flexors
 and extensors, which line the interior and exterior part of
 the metacarpus.
                                 C  3                        The

38        Natural History and Anatomical Description
    The posterior extremity is far from presenting so many
   oints of resemblance with that of the mammalia.                 The
I imb (4 lines) is exceedingly short in regard to the fin
(l inch 5 lines) ; besides, it is composed of only five bones.
The first, which, with its fellow, performs the office of a
pelvis, is long and flat, and terminates in a broad base, at
the extremity of which are articulated four small elongated
and parallel bones.       The protecting apophyses of the radii,
though extremely short, envelop, however, on each side,
the extremity of these small bones ; which is possible, be
cause each radius composed of two laminae is terminated by
a double apophysis.
    This organization is seen on a more extensive scale and
more distinctly in the anal fin ; where each radius, com
posed of two triangular laminae, united only by their ante
rior ed'ie, is disposed in such a manner that the first radius
receives the second, the sccoivd the third, the third the fourth,
and so on.
    Th^ dorsal exhibits a fact of organization no less curious
than what has been described.          It is composed of sixteen,
seventeen,    or eighteen   osseous  radii,   eleven lines in length,
separated    from   each    other,  compressed       transversely,   of
equal    breadth,  that  is to say  three   lines,  and   terminating
in two sharp points. These osteons laminae, by rising up
along the whole back, present in case of need a formidable
armour.      That these laminae, however, mav have a base
proportional to their soliditv, they are articulated directly
with the upright apophyses of the vertebrae, and not, as in>
the other fishes, with the protecting apophyses of the radii :
for this purpose the upright apophyses of the vertebrae are
stronger, and terminated by a head destined for the articu
lations of the radii.       The protecting apophyses, by this
singular arrangement, become useless ; they however exist,
but are smaller, and inserted under the skin in the cellular
tissue : they are merely the rudiments having a little more
development.
    The dorsal radii are not only transformed into a double-
pointed dart ; but each of them also is a particular fin ; for
there arises from the posterior surface of the laminae a trans
parent membrane, which far exceeds the radius itself (or
 1 inch 6 lines), which is supported towards the upper part
by four small round cartilaginous radii, having each a
particular origin.      This series of small fins is prolonged
without interruption as far as the caudal fin, so that they
*re distinguished only by the difference of their radii.
    Thti tad is very short, compressed on the sides, and ter
                                                              minates

            of a new Genus    cf Fish named Polyptera.        30
initiates in a point ; the fin which borders it below and
above is however rounded at its extremity : the radii are
subdivided in proportion as they recede from their origin }
those of the pectoral and ventral fins have a resemblance to
them, except in the difference of their height. They are
all so close to each other that they do not seem to be suscep
tible of motion.
     III. Of the Head. — The branchial aperture is of consi
derable size, which is never the case in other fishes, unless
the number of the branchio-stcge radii increase in propor
tion.     But in the bichir there are none : they would indeed
be almost useless, since the branchio-stege membrane, in
 stead of being so thin as to fold up or expand at pleasure,
 consists of a thick skin. As it is of sufficient extent to ex
 ceed a good deal the opposite edge of the branchial aper
 ture, it is supported towards the middle by a long osseous
 plate.
     It may readily be imagined that a branchio-stcge mem
 brane, like the present, cannot perform the functions which
 it is known to perform in other fishes, if the arrangement
 of the plate's which cover the head did not compensate for
 this deficiency by a supplementary organization, which
 brings all these parts into perfect agreement.
     The middle of the head is protected by a large plate,
 composed of six pieces all articulated together.      This kind
 of helmet is separated from the operculum by a band com
 posed of small square pieces, which coming from the eye
 proceed obliquely on the nape of the neck.          About the
 middle it is observed that two of these pieces    adhere   by a
  membrane only to the first piece of the operculum, while
  their opposite edge is free. As this fissure communicates
  with the cavity of the mouth, the water conveyed into
  the branchiae is strongly compressed     both by the pieces of
  the operculum, and by the long plate which supplies the
  place of the branchio-stege radii : this liquid raises up the
  two small moveable pieces, and opens a passage through
  which it escapes as through a valve.
     The operculum exhibits nothing remarkable : it is com
  posed of three pieces ; the anterior and posterior are nearly
  of the same size ; the third, which is situated between the
  two, is much smaller, and has the form of an equilateral
  triangle : above this third piece the two others arc contigu
  ous. The leaves of the branchiae are single.
      The form of the head approaches near to that of the exnees:
  it is long and flat from the top downwards, and the inferior
 jaw *  projects a little forwards.
                                  C4                         The

40          Nafiual History and dnatowicdl Description
       The mouth   is large, and furnished with a double row of
equal,   fine, and   sharp teeth, placed very near to each other.
The cavity of it is filled bv a tongue exceedingly thick, free',
and not covered with teeth, as in the esoces.       On the sides
of the mouth there are two prolonged lips, the upper one
of which onlv is supported bv a cartilage. This cartilage
is nothing else titan a thick tendon : a Itftlc above, towards
the place where the moveable                      lip
                                         begins, there    found                     is        a
small barbillon two lines in length, and between the two
barbillons two small holes which are the apertures of the
nostrils.       .
   The eve       situated behind and on the sides of the head
                    is                                                                        •
                                                                                              ;
it    flattened, and deeply lodged in the cavitv.
       is
   IV. Of the general Teguments. —The bichir             cased in               is
armour nearly in the same manner as the esox-cayman                                           :
its scales are large, thick, rhomboidnt, strongly fixed in the
skin, and distributed obliquely in bands: each of these
bands begins at the middle line of the back and ends at the
middle line of the belly,         such inmanner as to form with
                                                      a
the band of the opposite side an angle of nearly 45 de
grees.
    The general colour of the lichir               sea-green; the belly
                                                          is   a
inclines       little to
                a            dirty white: this colour
                              a                                 set off by     is
some black irregular spots, more numerous towards the tail
than the head.         The lateral line       straight, and not very
                                                      is
visible. The general size of the bichir             one foot six inches
                                                                is                                •
in length.                                                                               "»
    V. Organs           Digestion. — The lichir
                         of                              this respect ap-
                                                                     in                           .
proaches     more    to  the rays  than   the  esoces,  with    which one
might     at first  be  tempted   to  class it.    At  the  extremity     of
   very spacious oesophagus,           one  inch   two   lines  in  length,
is afound the stomach, four inches five lines                              in
                                                               length and
one inch two lines                in
                                breadth           cylindric
                                                  :   it   is        part of    in   a
its length, and conical at the extremity.                 The intestine,
which originates at the upper part of the stomach, first rises,
and then folding itself back proceeds straight to the anus                                    :
a  little below the arch which           forms there
                                             it             found       very
                                                                          is             a
short ccecum five lints             length, wanting in most of the
                                       in
esoces, which proceeds towards the head.                In the inside of
the intestinal tana! there            observed, as in the snuali and
                                        is
rays,      membrane fixed to the intestine
            a                                                        by
                                                        one of its edges
and rolled up in such            manner as to form
                                   a                          its differentby
folds so many cells, which stop the course of the aliments
and make them remain in the intestine the time necessary
for digestion. Though this wonderful mechanism, which
makes up for the shortness of the intestines,                       already         is
                                                                   known,

            of a new Genus  of Fish named Polyptera.           41
known, it is ?iill astonishing to    meet  with it in a fish of
the order of the abdominals.
     VI. Of t lie other Abdominal Viscera ; and 1st, of the Air
Bladders.    — The   genus of the esox, like most abdominal
fishes, ha3 only one air bladder adhering to the sides, and
occupying the whole extent and length of the abdominal
region.      In the bkhir there arc two of these air bladders :
they    are  two  unequal cylinders which adhere only to the
stomach ahd the liver.      The smaller, eleven lines in extent,
accompanies the stomach and terminates in a point : the
larger, which it seven inches four lines, occupies the whole
length dt the abdomen. Towards the upper and lower part
of the cesnph-igus is a fissure which opens into these blad
ders.     Th.s large aperture is shut, when necessary, by one
constrictor muscle. — 2d, The Liver. In the esox it is one
large and entire mass ; in the bkhir it is formed nearly like
the air bladders, being composed of two slender and unequal
lobes, the small portion proceeds on the right side of the
stomach ; the longer, which is also slenderer, on the left
of the intestinal canal. The gall bladder arises from the long
 portion : it has the form of a long-necked bottle; it is one
 inch four lines in length, and four lines in diameter. 3d, The
 Spleen is a ribbon-like body, of the consistence of the liver,
 and adheres to the large air bladder. — 4th, The Kidney* have
 nearly the same form : thev are two in number, and lodged •
 on each side of the projection of the vertebral column ; in ¦
 this they are very dirlerent from one kidney of a pulpy con
 sistence, such as that observed in the esox. — 5th, The Ova-
 ria, which are eleven inches in length, present nothing re
 markable : they are attached to the neighbouring organs
 only by a cellular tissue so loose that they form themselves
 into a ball, or become el en gated, according to the manner
 in which the fish is carried. The eggs are not larger than
 a grain of milict.      Thev are of a meadow-green colour,
 while the whole of the ovarium appears of a blackish brown.
      VII. Habits of the Bkhir. —Notwithstanding all the care
  I employed to obtain information respecting the manners of
 this fish, I was not able to succeed.      It is so rarely found
 in the Nile, that several fishermen informed me thev had
 never seen any other individuals than those which I showed
 them.       The high price which I gave for each bkhir is a
  sure proof that all those which appeared in the gene
   ral market at Cairo were brought tome; and yet 1 pur
  chased no more than three or four in the course of a year.
  It was caught at the time when the waters of the Nile were
  lowest, and I never was able to obtain any young indivi
                                                            duals.

   44   Description   of a new Genus  of Fish named Polyptera.
  duals. Having found that all the fish of the Nile are di
  vided by travellers into two classes : that some during the
   decrease of the river ascend from its mouth, and that others
  descend from Nubia at the time of the inundation, I was
  desirous of knowing to which of these divisions the bichir
  belonged : but I never met with any person who could in
  form me.       All that I was able to gather from the informa
  tion I obtained was, that the bichir frequents only the
  deepest parts of the river; it lires constantly in the mud;
  and that, abandoning its retreats only in the spawning sea
  son, it is then sometimes caught in the fishermen's nets.
  I have not learned on what it feeds. I opened and dissected
  three individuals, but their stomachs were entirely empty.
  By the extent of its mouth, however, the numerous teeth
  with which it is armed, and the conformation of the in
  testinal canal, there is reason to believe that it is carnivo
  rous.    Its flesh is white, and much more savoury than that
  of the other inhabitants of the Nile. As it is proof against
  the attacks of a knife, it must be boiled: the skin is then
  more easily detached, and may be remdved in one piece.
     VIII. Natural Relations. — The genus to which the bichir
  approaches most is that of the esoces : it has even some re
  semblance to the cayman and scaly eel ; a resemblance for
  which it is indebted to its integuments, and the distribution
  and size of its scales.    But it may be readily conceived that
 this is not a consideration of sufficient importance to induce
 us to class it among the esoces, since it differs from them, as
 •well as from the other known abdominal fishes, by organs
 much more essential. It is the only one of this order which
 has its fins placed at the extremity of the arm, the only
 one in which the place of the branchio-stegc radii is supplied!
 by an osseous plate ; the only one which has a kind of air
 holes furnished with valves to shut these apertures out
 wardly : all characters by which it approaches the cetacea :
 it is also the only one in which the dorsal line is furnished
 throughout its whole length with small fins ; in which the
 first radius of these fins is transformed into a dart with two
 points ; in which the apophyses of the vertebra support
 immediately the osseous radii of the dorsal fins ; which has
a tail so short that it is almost useless for natation ; and
which, in regard to the organs of digestion, seems to esta
blish a shade between the abdominal and cartilaginous fishes.
From t'.'jse considerations I think myself authorized to de
termine, that as the bichir cannot be admitted into any of
the known divisions, it ought to be considered as an insu
lated being, and in that state of anomaly which naturalists
                                                          usually

                   Process   for   Dyeing Turkey Red.                                 43.
Usually denote by the name of a new genus.                        I   shall there
fore establish the genus as follows :
                       POLVPTEBA.
  Charac. One branchio-stege radius ; two spiracles                      j   a great
number of dorsal tins.
                      POLYPTERA           BlCHIR.
     Inhabits the Nile,
                         Explanation of        the   Plate.
  Fig. l.      (Plate I.) Polyp tera.
     Fig.   2. the head seen from above,                  A B,   aperture        of   the
spiracles.
     Fig.   3. insulated dorsal fin seen on one side, in which
may    t>e   observed the two points that terminate the osseous
radius.
V.    Account    of  the Process    followed         by    M. Pierre Jaques
                 Papillon for       Dyeing Turkey Red.
XT   is now some years since M. Papillon established a dye-
house at Glasgow for giving to cotton-yarn that beautiful
red colour knon n by the name of Turkey or Adrianople
red.    In the year 1790 the commissioners and trustees for
manufactures in Scotland paid a premium to M. Papillon
for communicating to the late Dr. Black, then professor of
chemistry, Edinburgh, a description of his process, on con
dition that it should not be divulged for a certain term of
years, during which M. Papillon was to have the sole use
of his own secret. The term being now expired, the pro
cess, as communicated to Dr. Black, has been published,
and is as follows :
        Receipt    for Dyeing      Cotton-Yarn a durable Red.
                                   Step   I.
     For one hundred pound of cotton, you must                        have
                lb. of alicante barilla.
                   100
                 lb. of pearl-ashes.
                    20
                lb. of quicklime.
                   100
   The            mixed with soft water in a deep tub which
            barilla is
has a small hole near the bottom of                  it,
                                           stopped at first with
a peg.  This hole was covered in the inside with cloth,                      a
supported       by
              two bricks, that the ashes may be prevented
from running out at          it,
                         or stopping     up while the ley filters
                                                 it
through it.
                                                          Under

44              Process      for  Dyeing Turkey Red.
   Under this tub is another to receive the ley, and pnrev
water is repeatedly passed through the first tub to form leys
of different strength, which are kept separate at first until
their strength is examined.            The strongest required for use
must swim or float an egg, and is called the ley of six
degrees    of the French hydrometer, or perseliqtieur.
The weaker are afterwards brought to this strength by
passing them through fresh barilla; but a certain quantity
of the weak, which Is of two degrees of the above hydro
meter, is reserved for dissolving the oil, the gum, and the
salt, which are used in subsequent parts of the process.
This ley of two degrees is called the weak barilla liquor;
the other is called the strong.
   Dissolve the pearl-ashes in ten path, of four gallons each,
of soft water, and the lime in fourteen pails.
   Let all the liquors stand till they become quite clear, and
then mix ten pails of each.
   Boil the cotton in the mixture five hours, then wash it in
running water and dry it.
               Step     II. — Bainlie,     or Gray Steep.
   Take a sufficient quantity (ten pails) of the strong barilla
water in a tub, and dissolve or dilate in it two pailsfull of
sheep's dung j then pour into it two quart-bottles of oil of
vitriol, and one pound of gum arabic,and one pound of sal-
ammoniac, both previously dissolved in a sufficient quantity
of weak barilla water; and, lastly, twenty-five pounds of
olive oil which has been previously dissolved or well mixed
wrth,two pails of the weak barilla water.
   The materials of this steep being well mixed, tramp or
tread down the cotton into it until it is well soaked : let it
ste«p twenty-four hours, then ring it hard and dry it.
   Steep it again twenty-four hours, and again wring
                                                                          and
dry it.
   Steep it a third time twenty-four hours,
                                                                after which
wring and dry     it  ;   and,  lastry,  wash    it  well  and  dry it.
                   Step     III.— The    rVhite Steep.
   This part of      the process is precisely the same with the
last in everv particular, except that the sheep's dung is omit
ted in the composition of the steep.
                         Step   IV. — Gall     Steep.
   Boil twenty-five pounds of galU, bruised in                   ten pails of
       water,   until     tbar  or  five   are  boited    away   ; strain the
river
liqutrr into  a tub,      and   pour   cold   water    on   the galls  hi the
ttiaiaer to  wash     out   of  them   all  their   tincture.

                  Process  for    Dyeing Turkey Red.               li
    As soon as the liquor is become milk-warm, dip your cot
ton hank by hank, handling it carefully all the time, and
and let it steep twenty -four hours.
     Then ring it carefully and equally, and dry it well with
out washing.
                     Step   V. — First Alum     Steep.
     Dissolve twenty-five pounds of Roman alum in fourteen
pails of warm water, without making it boil ; skim the li
quor well, and add two pails of strong barilla water, and
 then let it cool until it beluke-warm.
     Dip your cotton, and handle it hank by hank, and let it
 steep twenty-four hours ; wring it equally, and dry it weU
 without washing.
                   Step   VI. — Second    Ahem Steep.
     Is performed in every particular like the last ; but after
 the cotton is dry steep it six hours in the river, and then
 wash and dry iu
                       Step  VIJ. — Dyeing     Steep.
      The cotton     is dyed bv about ten pounds at once, for
 "Which     take about two gallons and a half of ox blood, and
 mix it in the copper with twenty-eight pails of milk-warm
  water, and stir it well ; then add twenty-five pounds of
  madder, and stir all well together. Then, 'having before
  hand put the ten pounds of cotton on sticks, dip it into the
  liquor, and move and turn it constantly one hour, during
  which gradually increase the heat until the liquor begins' to
  boil at the end of the hour.             Then sink the cotton and
  boil it gently one hour longer, and lastly wash it and dry it.
      Take out so much of the boiling liquor that whatTemains
  may produce a milk-warm heat with the fresh water with
   which the copper is again filled up, and then proceed to
   make up a dyeing liquor, as above, for the next ten pounds
   of cotton.
                    Step VIII.— The Fixing Steep.
       Mix   equal parts  of  the gray-steep liqv.or and of the white-
   steep liquor, taking      live  or six pails of each. — Tread down
   the cotton into this mixture, and let it steep six hours; then
   wring it moderately and equally, and dry it without wash
   ing.
                        Step   IX.— Brighton    Steep.
       lOlb. of white soap must be dissolved most carcfullv and
   completely in sixteen or eighteen pails of warm water: if
    any little bits of the soap remain undissolved they will maks
                 4                                                spots

46                   Process   for Dyeing              Turkey Red.
spots in the cotton.   Add four pails of strong barilla water,
and stir it well.  Sink the cotton in this liquor, keeping it
down with cross sticks, and cover it up ; boil it gently two
hours, then wash it and dry    and          it,
                                      is finished.      it
                                         Vessels.
   The number of vessels necessary for this business                                      is
greater in proportion to the extent of the manufactory  but                          ;
in the smallest work        necessary to have four coppers,
                                it   is
of   a   round form.
  l st, The largest, for boiling and for finishing,  twenty-                is
eight inches deep,             by
                         thirty-eight or thirty-nine wide in
the mouth and eighteen inches wider in the widest part.
    2d, The second for dyeing     twenty-eight deep,
                                           is                thirty-            by
 two or thirty-four in the mouth.
    3d, The third, for the alum steep,       like the second.
                                                            is
   4th, The fourth, for boiling the galls,             twenty deep    is
 by   twenty-eight wide.
   A number of tubs, or larger wooden vessels, are neces
 sary, which must all be of fir, and hooped with wood or
with copper.
    Iron must not be employed in their construction, not
even     anail but where nails are necessary, they must be
              ;
 of copper.
    By the pail     always understood
                      is                   wooden vessel which
                                                        a
holds four English gallons, and        hooped with copper.
                                                  is
    In sonic parts of the above process, the strength of the
harilla liquor or liquors       determined
                                     is                          by
                                                   telling to what
degree    aperseliqueur or hydrometer    sinks  in  them.
   The perseliqueur was of French construction.                                  It   is
                                                                                      si
milar to the glass hydrometer used by the spirit dealers in
this country     and any artist who makes these instruments
                 ;
will find no difficulty in constructing one with           scale            a            si
milar   to that employed     M.     by
                                 Papillon,  when    he    informed         is
of the following circumstances               :
    1st, The instrument, when plunged in good soft water,
such as Edinburgh pipe water, at temperature 60° sinks to
the 0, or beginning of the scale, which stands near the top
of   the stem.
   2d, When          immersed in saturated solution of com
                     it   is                    a
mon salt, at the same temperature of 60°,    sinks to the 26°    it
of the scale only and this falls at some distance from the
                      j
top of the ball.
   This saturated solution   made                      by
                                      boiling, in pure water,
                                     is
refined sea or common salt, till no more      dissolved, and     is
by filtering the liquor when cold through blotting paper.
                                                                                         It

                    Life of John Dollond, F. U.S.                    4?
     It should also be observed, that whenever directions are
 ^iven to dry yarn to prepare it for a succeeding operation,
  that this .drying should be performed with particular care,
  and more perfectly than our driest weather is in general
  able to effect.    It is done therefore in a room heated by a
  stove to a great degree.
  VI.   TJve   Life of John Dollond, F. R. S., Inventor of
                     the AchromaXic Telescope*.
  An modern times the attention of men            has been employed
  rather in improving what they know than in attempting to
  make new discoveries. When a man, therefore, has been for
  tunate enough, by extraordinary research, or by a strong ef
  fort of genius, to surprize the world with a new invention,
  a lively interest is immediately excited in every mind to trace
  the steps, investigate the means, and collect every incident
  which led to the result : and to the honour of human nature
  be it said, while curiosity exerts itself in this manner on
  the invention, the inventor is not less the object of regard
, and consideration ; we wish to learn the history, the life,
  the character of the man, and, as far as it is possible, to be
  acquainted with him. The subjfect of the following memoir
  is entitled to this introduction, and the public will receive
  with satisfaction the following account of the inventor of
  the achromatic telescope :
     John Dollond, fellow of the Royal Society, was born in
  Spital fields, on the tenth day of June in the year 1706 : his
  parents were French protestants, and at the time of the re
  vocation of the edict of Nantz, which happened in the
  year 1683, resided in Normandy; but in what particular
        of it is not, at present, precisely known : M. de La-
   ande does not believe the name to be of French origin :
  {>art
  but however this may be, the family were compelled soon
  after this period to seek refuge in England in order to avoid
  persecution and to preserve their religion.
      The fate of this family was not a solitary case; fifty thou
  sand persons pursued the same measures, and we may date
  from this period the rise of several arts and manufactures
  which have become highly beneficial to this country.               An
  establishment was given to these refugees, by the wise policy
     * Communicated
                       by J. Kelly, D. D., rector of Copford and vicar of
  Ardleigh, Essex.
                                                                       Of

4«                Life of Mm Dollond, F. R. S.
of our government, in Spitalfields,  and particular encourage
ment granted to the silk manufactory.
    The first years of Mr. Dollond's life were employed at
the loom ; but, being of' a very studious and philosophic
turn of mind, his leisure hours were engaged in mathema
tical pursuits; and though by the death of his father,
which happened in his infancy, his education gave way
to the necessities of his family, yet at the age of fifteen,
before he had an opportunity of seeing works of science or
elementary     treatises, he amused himself by constructing
sun-dials, drawing geometrical schemes, and solving pro
blems.
    An early marriage and an increasing family afforded him
little opportunity of pursuing his favourite studies : but such
are the powers of the human mind when called into action,
that difficulties, which appear to the casual observer insur
mountable, yield and retire before perseverance and genius :
even under the pressure of a close applipation to business
for the support of his family, he found time, by abridging
the hours of his rest, to extend his mathematical know
ledge, and made a considerable proficiency in optics and
astronomy, to which he now principally demoted his atten
tion, having in the earlier stages- of his life prepared him
self for the higher parts of those subjects by a perfect know
ledge of algebra and geometry.
    Soon after this, without abating from the ardour of his
other literary pursuits, or relaxing from the labours of his
profession, he began to study anatomy, and likewise to
read divinity; and finding the knowledge of Latin and
Greek indispensably necessary towards attainingthose ends,
lie applied himself diligently, and was soon able to translate
the Greek Testament into Latin ; and as he admired the
power and the wisdom of the Creator in the mechanism of
the human frame, so he adored his goodness displayed in
his revealed word.
    It might from hence be concluded that his sabbath was
tie voted to retired reading and philosophical objects ; but he
was not content with private devotion, as he was always an
advocate for social worship, and with his family regularly
attended the public service of the French protestant church,
and occasionally heard Benson and Lardner, whom he re
spected as men and admired as preachers.        In his appear
ance he was grave, and the strong lines of his face were
marked with deep thought and reflection ; but in his inter
 course with his family and friends, he was cheerful and
affectionate ; and his language and sentiments are distinctly
                                                     recollected

                   Life of John Dollond) F. R. S.                    49
  recollected as always making a strong impression On the
  minds of those with whom he conversed. His memory was
  extraordinarily retentive, and, amidst the variety of his
  reading, he could recollect and quote the most important
  passages of every book which he had at any time perused.
     He designed his eldest son, Peter Dollond, for the same
 business with himself; and for several years they carried on
 their manufacture together in Spitalfields j but the employ*
 ment neither suited the expectations nor dispositions of the
 son, who, having received much information upon mathe
 matical and philosophical subjects from the instruction of
 his father, and observing the great value which was set upon
 his father's knowledge in the theory of optics by profes
 sional men, determined to apply that knowledge to the be
 nefit of himselfand his family j and accordingly, under the
 directions of his father, commenced optician.               Success,
 though under the most unfavourable circumstances, at
 tended every effort; and iu the year 1 752 John Dollond,
 embracing the opportunity of pursuing a profession conge
 nial with his mind, and without neglecting the rules of
 prudence towards his family, joined his son, and in conse
 quence of his theoretical knowledge, soon became a profi
 cient in the practical parts of optics.
     His first attention was directed to improve the combina
 tion of the eye-glasses of refracting telescopes ; and having
 succeeded in his system of four eye-glasses, he proceeded
 one step further, and produced telescopes furnished with
 five eye-glasses, which considerably sui passed the former;
 and of which he gave a particular account in a paper pre
 sented to the Royal Society, and which was read on the
 1st of March 1753, and printed in the Phil. Trans, vol.xlviii.
 page 103.
     Soon after this he made a very useful improvement in
 Mr. Savery's micrometer:         for instead of employing two
 entire object-glasses, as Mr. Savery and M. JJouguer had
 done, he used only one glass cut into two equal parts,
 one of them sliding or moving: laterally by the other. This
 was considered to oe a u;rcat improvement, as the micro-
jneter could now be applied to the reflecting telescope with
 much advantage, and which Mr. James Short immediately
 did. An account of the same was given to the Royal So
 ciety, in a paper which was afterwards printed in the Phil.
 Trans, vol. xlviii. page 178*.
    • Thi* kind of micrometer was aftcrwnnls            Mr. P. Dollond
                                             applied by
to the achromatic itlescopc.
     Vol.XV1II.No.69.                    D                        Mr.

  50             Life of John Dollond,    F. R. S.
     Mr. Dollond's celebrity in optics   became   now universal J
  and the friendship and protection of the most eminent men
  of science flattered and encouraged his pursuits. To enu
  merate the persons, both at home and abroad, who distin
  guished him by their correspondence or cultivated his ac
  quaintance, however honourable to his memory, would
  only be an empty praise.      We cannot, however, forbear
  mentioning the names of a few persons, who. held the
  highest place in his esteem as men of worth and learning :
  Mr. Thomas Simpson, master of the Royal Academy at
  Woolwich ; Mr. Harris, assay-master at the Tower, who
  was at that time engaged in writing and publishing his
  Treatise on Optics ; the Rev. Dr. Bradley, then astronomer
  royal ; the Kev. William Ludlow, of St. John's college,
  Cambridge ; Mr. John Canton, a most ingenious man, and
  celebrated not less for his knowledge in natural philosophy,
  than for his neat and accurate manner of making philoso
  phical experiments.    To this catalogue of the philosophical
  names of those days, we must add that of the present
  astronomer royal, the Rev. Dr. Maskelyne, whose labours
  have so eminently benefited the science of astronomy.
     Surrounded bv these enlightened men, in a state of mind
 prepared for the severest investigation of philosophic truths,
 and in circumstances favourable to liberal inquiry, Mr.
 Dollond engaged in the discuss-ion of a subject, which at
 that time not only interested this country, but all Europe.
 Sir Isaac Newton had declared, in his Treatise on Optics,
 page 112,
              " That all refracting substances diverged the
 prismatic colours in a constant proportion to their mean
 refraction ;" and drew this conclusion, " that refraction
could not be produced without colour ;" and, consequently,
" ///.•// no improvement could be expected in t/ie refracting
 telescope."   No one doubted the accuracy with which Sir
Isaac Newton had made the experiment ; yet some men,
particularly M. Elder and others, were of opinion that the
conclusion which Newton had drawn from it went too far,
and maintained that in very small angles refraction might
be obtained without colour.       Mr. Dollond was not of that
opinion, but defended Newton's doctrine with much learn
ing and ingenuity, as may be seen by a reference to the
letters which passed between Euler and Dollond upon that
occasion, and which were published in the Phil. Trans,
vol. xlviii. page 287. and contended that, " If the result of
the experiment had been as described by Sir Isaac New
ton, there could not be refraction without colour."
    A mind constituted like Mr. Dolloud's could not re
                                                          main

                    Life of John Dollond, F.R.Si                                  51
main satisfied with arguing in this manner from an experi
ment made       l>y  another, but determined to try            himself:
                                                                 it
and, accordingly, in the year 1757, began the examination
and, to use his own words, with " resolute perseverance,'
                                                                                  ;
                                                  a
continued during that year, aud            great part of the next, to
                                             a
bestow his whole mind on the subject, until in the month
of June 1758 he found, after complete course of experi
                                        a
ments, the result to be very different- from that which he
expected, and from that which Sir Isaac Newton had re
lated. He discovered " the difference in the dispersion                           of
tlw colours   of' light, when the mean rays are equally refracted
ly   different  mediums."        The discovery was complete, and
he immediately drew from                 this               conclusion,
" That the object-glasses of refractingpractical
                                        it
                                                   telescopes were ca
pable    of being   made    without   being  affected       by
                                                           the different
 refrangibility    of  the  rays  of light."    His    account   of this
 •experiment,    and   of  others  connected    with       it,
                                                           was  given to
 the Royal Society, and printed            their Transactions, vol.
                                             in                                    1.
                                                                           a by
        743. and he was presented in the same year,                  that
 Iiagc
   earned body, with Sir Godfrey Copley's medal; as                   re
 ward of his merit, and      a   memorial of the discovery, though
 not at that time       member of the society.
                         a
     This discovery no way affected the points in dispute
between Euler and Dollond, respecting the doctrine ad
 vanced by Sir Isaac Newton.             A new principle was in                    a
 manner found out, which had no part in their former rea
 sonings, and       itwas reserved for the accuracy of Dollond to
  have the honour of making         a  discovery which had eluded
 the observation of the immortal Newton*.
     This new principle being now established, he was soon
 able to construct object-glasses, in which the different re
 frangibility of the rays of light was corrected, and the
  name of achromatic given to them by the late Dr. Bevis,
  on account of their being free from the prismatic colours.
 Dr. Hutton,        inhis Mathematical Dictionary, has said that
  this name was given to them              M. de Lalande; but that
                                             by
is
a      mistake.                                            •»
     As usually happens on such occasions, no sooner was
  the achromatic telescope made public, than the rivalship of
     * The erase of this difference of  ti
                                        e   results of the 8th experiment of
the mil pan of the lirst hook of Ntwtoti's Optics, as related By himself,
»nd as  it w.-is found «hen trietl by  Dollond      the years 1757 sn
                                                      in               \J\%,
                                                                           I
is fully and ingeniously accounted for        Mr. P^tct Dollond in
                                              by                       pa' er
                                                                           a
read at the Uoyal Society on the 21st of Mav. 17S9, and afterwards^
published    for
              J,    Johnson in St. Paul's Church Yi.d; also         Hutton's
                                                                      in
Dictionary — Ar'.icK, Chromatic.
                                 D      3                         foreigners,

52             Life of John Dollond, F. R. S.
foreigners, and the jealousy of philosophers           at home, Jed
them to doubt of its reality; and Euler himself, in hi*
paper read before the Academy of Sciei ~es at Berlin, in the
                       "
year 176-3, says — I am not ashamed frankly to avow,
that the first accounts, which were published of                  ap   it,
peared so suspicious, and even so contrary to the best
established principles, that could not prevail upon myself
                                 and he adds, "
                                   I
to give credit to them      ;"                          should never
                                                          I
have submitted to the proofs which Mr. Dollond produced
to support this strange phenomenon,              M. Clairaut, who
                                                  if
must at first have been equally surprized at              it,
                                                       had not most
positively   assured   me,  that  Dollond's   experiments were but
too well founded."        And when the fact could no longer be
disputed, they endeavoured          to find      prior inventor, to
                                                      a
whom     it might   be  ascribed,  and   several  conjecturers were
 honoured with the title of discoverers.
    Mr. Dollond's improvement in refracting telescopes wa»
of the greatest advantage in astronomy, as they have been
applied to fixt instruments;           which the motions of the
                                       by
heavenly bodies are determined to              much greater exact
                                                 a
ness than     by the means of the old telescopes.         Navigation
has also been much benefited            by
                                         applying achromatic tele
scopes to the
                  " Hadley's sextant :" and from the improved
state of the lunar tables, and of that instrument, the longi
tude at sea may now be determined                 by
                                                good observers to            a
great degree    of  accuracy   ; and  their  universal   adoption by
the navy and army, as well as             the public in general,
                                            by                               is
the best proof of the great utility of the discovery.
    In the beginning of the year 761, Mr. Dollond was
                                             1
elected fellow of the Royal Society, and appointed optician
to his majesty, but did not live to enjoy those honours
long ;   for on the 30th of November, in the same year, as
he was reading         new publication
                       a                       M. Clairaut, on the
                                                 by
theory of the moon, and on which he had been intently
•engaged for several hours, he was seized with apoplexy,
which rendered him immediately speechless, and occasioned
his death in       a few hours afterwards.       Besides Mr. Peter
Dollond, whom we have had occasion to mention                      the  in
 course of this memoir, his family, at his death, consisted
 of three daughters and son, who, possessing the name of
                           a
 his father, and we may add,           portion of' the family abili
                                       a
 ties, carries on the optical business         partnership with his
                                                 in
 elder brother.
                                                                VII.   Memoir

                            [  "    ]
VII.   Memoir hj LordN atier, of Merchiston, the celebrated
   Inventor of tlie Logarithms, on his different Contrivances
   "for tlie Defence of this Island ;" with Remarks.
    sir,                To  Mr. Tilloch.
 -L he following memoir has been already published in Dr.
Anderson's excellent miscellany, the bek, vol. iii. p. 133.
but your readers will perhaps agree with me in thinking it
deserves republication, and rfiay not be displeased to find it
accompanied with some observations, which I believe have
not before been brought together. The original of this very
curious paper is preserved among the manuscripts of An
thony Bacon, Esq. in the Lambeth Library, marked 658,
anno 1596.
                                      Yours, &c.          » D.
"   Secret inventions, profitable and necessary in these days
   for the defence of this island, and withstanding of
    strangers, enemies to God's truth and religion.
    "  First, The invention, proof, and perfect demonstra
tion, geometrical and algebraical, of a burning mirror,
which receiving of dispersed beams of the sun, doth reflex
the same beams altogether united, and concurring precisely
in one mathematical point, in the which point, most ne
cessarily it cngendercth fire; with an evident demonstration
of their error who affirm this to be made a parabolic section.
The use of this invention serveth for the burning of the
enemy's ships at whatsoever appointed distance.
    " Secondly, The invention and sure demonstration of
another mirror, which receiving the dispersed beams of any
material fire, or flame, yieldeth also the former effect, and
serveth for the like use.
    " Thirdly, The invention and visible demonstration of a
piece of artillery, which shot, passeth not lineally through
the army, destroying only those that stand in the random
thereof, but superficially ranging abroad, within the whole
appointed place, and not departing forth of the place, till
it hath executed his whole strength, by destroving all those
that be within the bounds of the said place. The use
hereof not only serveth greatly against the army of the
enemy on land, but also by sea, serving to destroy and cut
down, at one explosion, the whole masts and tackling of
so many ships as be within the appointed bounds, as well
abreid as in large, so long as any strength at all remaineth.
                              D 3                  " Fourthly,

54               Lord Napier's different Contrivances
     "   Fourthly, The invention of a round chariot in metal,
made      of the proof of double musquet, whose motion shall
be such, that those that be within the same shall be more
easy, more light, more specdv, and more safe in battle, than
any hitherto contrived.            The use hereof in moving, is to
break the array of the enemy's battle, and to make passage,
as also      in staying and abiding within the enemy's battle.
 It servelh      to destroy the environed enemy, by continual
charges and shot of the arquebuss, through small holes;
 the enemy in the mean time, being amazed", and altogether
uncertain what defence or pursuit to use against a moving
 mouth of metal.
     " These inventions, besides devices of sailing under the
 water, with divers other devices and stratagems for harming
 of the enemies, by the grace of God, and work of expert
.craftsmen, I hope to perform.
                                      John Napier, of Mcrchiston,
                                        sl/nio Domini 1596,       June 2.
                            Remarks on the above,
      I. The accension of combustible bodies by the solar rays
 concentrated in the focus of a concave mirror, was well known
 to the atiticnts, it being the 31st, and concluding proposi
 tion, of the Treatise on Catoptr'teks, generally ascribed to
 Euclid*; and it was by such mirrors, according to Plutarch,
 in the life of Numa, that the vestal fires were rekindled.
 There can be no doubt that the Magi, \\ ho were equally scru
 pulous about their sacred fire, renovated it by the same means.
 The antients also knew, that if a number of plane mirrors
 were so disposed as that each of them should reflect the
  image of the sun to the same spot, a combustible substance
  placed there would be set on lire.            It was precisely in this
  way, according         to  the  Grecian     poet Tzetzes, that Archi
  medes, at the distance of a bow-shot, projected the rays of
  the sun on the fleet of Marccllus, before Syracuse, and re-
     *
        Dr. Rutherford, in his Sv*t. of Nat. Philcs. vol. i. p. 4.48. says,
 that the au'hor of this piece on Catoptrics, who, we mav be certain, was
  rot Euclid the geometrician, has erroneously supposed the burning pi>int,
  Of focus of the sun's rays, in a concave mirror, to he in the centre of the
  S' here, whereof it is a portion.     And Wolfius, in his Etrm, Mutbrs.
   Uliver. t. ill. p. 187. charges not Euciid only, but all the anticnts^witb,
  this error,    But how then, it may b: asked. cniUrl they be acquainted,
  as thev certainly   were, with the actual me of such mirrors } Herigon,
  in the Catoptrics, wh.ch he s;ives as Euclid's, without mentioning the
  error of his author, places the focus wiiere it ought to be. namely very"
  nearly, or, as to sip.su, exictly, in the miJJle of (.he axis, between t(ie
  centre and l\\c cpucave reflecting surface,
                                                                       duced.

                  for  the- Defence    of this Island.                  55
duced it to ashes.       Proclus is recorded by Zonaras to have
destroyed    the  ships  of Vitalian, besieging Byzantium (now
Constantinople), by a similar apparatus. The same facts
are mentioned by other antient historians ; but their hints
respecting the apparatus itself arc too imperfect to afi'oid
any explicit knowledge of its structure.               But, as appears
from other passages of his life*, a very obscure hint was
sufficient to set in action the genius of Napier j and the
foregoing memoir gives us every reason to believe that, put
ting a happy construction on the words of Tzetzes, this
secpnd Archimedes was the first among the moderns who
recovered this admirable invention of his illustrious pre
cursor. .So completely had it been buried in the wreck of
antient science, that Descartes, who certainly understood
at least the theory of optics better than any man of his
age, when he published his Dioptrics, above forty years
after the date of Napier's memoir, mentions the burn
ing of bodies, at any considerable distance, by means
of mirrors, as an almost hopeless pnnect, and scarcely
refrains from treating the famous exploit of Archimedes
as a fablef-       Descartes was a great man, and therefore
his scepticism was, as usual, adopted by the common
herd, the servum peats, of philosophers, and even by some
men of real learning and ability.              Of this last descrip
tion was M. Ozanam, who says plainly that the catoptrical'
achievement of Archimedes is incredilie ; and indeed not
without reason, if the distance really was (as he states it,
upon what authority does not appear,) 375 geometrical
paces, equal to 1875 French feet, or 2002 English %.
This, it must be confessed, seems to be giving too po
etical an in-terpretation          to the bow-shot of the poet
Tzetzes.       The justly celebrated Christian Wolfe seems
also disposed to give little credit to this curious piece of
history ; though he quotes father Kircher as having con
cluded, from an actual survey of the site of the town and
harbour of antient Syracuse, that the distance to which
Archimedes had to project the solar rays could not exceed
thirty paces §. This distance is probably nearer the truth :
at least it is more agreeable to our modern ideas and experi-
   " Sec the story of Dr. Grain in lord Bnchan's elegant Life of Nipier,
and in Dr. Mutton's excellent Mai hem. anil i'li'os. Diction, art. Napier,
   t Cartnii Dioptric* (nrst printed in 1637). cap. viii. sect. 21.
   X See M. Ozanam's Rrcreations
                                     Math, it Phi., torn. i. p. 144, ed. 3.
Peihaps Dr. Hutton's late much imp'oied transition of this curious
work m iv afford the reader moie satisfaction im ilrs point.
   § E.encnta Malbescos
                          Unrjena, torn. iii. p. 1S8.
                                   D 4                              ments,

56               Lord Napier's different Contrivances
 merits, as well as to the accounts which have been trans
mitted to us of the prodigious havoc which the engines of
 Archimedes, some of which could not possibly act at any
 great distance, made among the ships of the enemy *.                        Bo
 this as it may, the incredulity of so many modern philoso
 phers, some of them deservedly esteemed on other accounts,
 naturally tended to discourage any attempts to verify the
 performances ascribed to Archimedes and Proclus.                          The
 surprising     effects of  the  concave   reflectors    of Tschirnhausen,
Vilette, Sir Isaac Newton and others, fall not under our
 present consideration,           as having been produced only at
 small distances.         At length, in 1726, M. du Fay found
 that, " at 200, 300, and even as far as 600 French feet"
  (about 640 English),
                               " the rays of the sun received on a
 plane mirror, one foot square, and thence reflected to a
 concave one 17 inches" (above 18 English inches) " in di
 ameter, consumed combustible bodies in the focus of the
 latter t."      This interesting and literally brilliant experi
ment no doubt had its influence in stimulating the active
    * See the antient authors quoted by bishop Wilkins in his Mathema
 tical Magic, book i. chap. 17 ; and by Dr. Hutton, in his Dictionary,
 art. Afcbimedti.
    f  V. Mem. tie I' Acad. Roy. des Sc, An. 17*6. Father Regnault ap
pears to have strangely misunderstood this cx|Hrirrent of M. du Fay.
*' Enturr qu/lque pat,'' &c.     " A few paces mure,'' (so that he, as well
as Oziiiiam, seems still to have thought the distance at which Archimedes
burned the ships to have been greater than Kirchcr had given grounds to
believe it really was,) " A few paces more," savs Ke^nauUi " and the
secret of Archimedes      is discovered or verified:" Pays. torn. iii. Entire,
lien 10. The same author, in his Origine anc. de la Pbys. neuv. (printed
 '73 5)» tom> '¦¦P- *8ji has these words,
                                                " On ra ontr que les mirroirs,
&c. It is said that the mirrors of Proclus and Archimedes burned the
 fleets of their enemies.    With a plane glass and a concave mirror we now
know how to excite flame at 600 feet distance."           Here would not the
reader be apt to conclude that ti e flame was excited, not in the /«¦« of
the concave, between the two minors, which were 600 feet asunder, hue
at that distance from the concave itself?       Certainly the secret of Archi
medes was far from being discovered bv M. du Fay, who produced his
effect by a double reflection ; whereas circumstances must have confined
Archimedes to a single reflection ; unless we Cr.n believe that Marcellus
1»oiild allow him to fix his concave to the ship he intended to bum, and
to bring some of the ropes, &c. into its focus.        Savcrien, in his Diction,
tie MiUb. el tie Phys., article Mirrojr, quotes Regn^uit's Physique, and
appears to have inadvertently followed his lorse description, and even to
IijVc made it still more amb'gnous.        M. du Kay's own account of his
experiment, inserted in the texr, is cjuite plain and explicit.         Perhaps
Regnault's works are not much read ; hut Savercin s Dictionary (printed
in 1753) is pretty generally referred to.      It is a vo.k of meiit and utt-
)ty, and therefore its errors beirg the moie 1! ely to mislead careless
rciders( should pot pass u.ucpiTtctcg'  hy those who observe them.
                                                                          mind

                    for   the Defence    of this Island.                  57
 mind of Buffbn to attempt the production of fire by one
 reflection only.          But, as he himself intimates, he was
chiefly prompted         to make this trial by a passage in the third
part     of  the Magia Catoptrica of Kircher *, who says, Ego
 eerie hitjus rei, &c.        "   I certainly made trial of this matter
 with five plane specula.            The heat, at the first reflection,
was different from that of direct light.                 The light when
doubled gave a very perceptible increase of heat ; when tri
pled, it had the heat of a fire; when quadrupled, the heat
could still be endured ; but a five-fold light made the heat
almost intolerable."           Hence he concludes that a numerous
 combination of plane mirrors, which should reflect the sun's
light to the same point, would produce much greater effects
 than any parabolic, hyperbolic, or elliptic burning mirror.
This, he says, he is warranted to affirm, from experiments
 he made with his five plane specula, at the distance of 100
 feet and upwards.           And he earnestly entreats mathemati
 cians to pursue this object with their utmost diligence.
 Kircher was born in 1601 f, five years after the date of
 Napier's memoir.           It is generally said that his experiments
 were suggested by the hints of Tzetzcs; and, no doubt,
 would be encouraged by his finding, on " diligent exa
 mination" of the spot in 1636, that «« the combustion said
 to have been kindled by Archimedes was possible, and that
 the caustic line was but about 30 paces," or about l6o
 English feet. Thus the count de Buffon had only to put
 in execution the directions of Kircher J, which he did, in
 March and April 1747, with great perseverance, ingenuity,
 and expense.         After various trials, with combinations of
 different numbers of plane mirrors, the greatest consisting
 of 400, placed in a square frame and brought to bear upon
 the object by means of screws, he succeeded in melting
 lead and tin at the distance of about 50 English yards ; and
 in burning lighter substances, at the distance of 75 yards.
 With summer heat, and a better apparatus, he expresses a
 certainty of producing combustion even so far as 400 French
 feet, equal to 142 of our yards, and perhaps further §. This,
 if Kircher's admeasurement was rieht, may be reckoned at
least double the distance at which Archimedes produced his
conflagration ; and thus he and Buffon together have at last
       Quoted by Paulian in his valuable Diction, dc Physique, article Cam
    '*
loft- iijur.
    f   See Mutton's Dictionary, article Kircher.
    t Paiilian's D ctionary, article Custrt.
    § See the Mrm. de       i Acad ties &iencr<, an 1747; Diction, de Phyi.
dc  faii/ia'ifin.Caloftiiauc   ; and Hutlon's Dictionary, art. Burnirg Glass.
                                                                 convinced

 88              Lord Napier's different Contrivances
 convinced most learned men that the renowned anticnt
 really performed the great exploit recorded of him.                 " The
 discovery," says the excellent Mauperitus,
                                                         "   of the mirror
of Archimedes, which has been made by M. de Buffon,
shows us that we might construct bunting towers or am
phitheatres eovered with mirrors, which would produce a
 tire whose violence would have no other limits, so to speak,
than those of the sun itself*." Fortune, leisure, and ge
nius, are necessary to the success of all such experiments.
Lord Napier possessed these indispensable requisites as well
as the count dc Buffon ; and when we consider what has
been actually done by the French philosopher, and invented
in far more arduous departments of science by the Scottish
one, we have no right to doubt that he could actually have
verified the first proposal of his memoir.               His expression
"     at any appointed distance," can only mean such a di
stance as might be reasonably prescribed in a case of this
kind.
     II.   Our illustrious author's second proposal has the ap
pearance of far greater difficulty than the first, and, as far
as I know, can derive little or no support from the colla
teral evidence of other experiments antient or modern.
Paulian, in the article already cited, speaks, in general
terms, of kindling agaric, and gunpowder, by the rays of
burning charcoal, collected by one concave and reflected
from another; adding, that the experiment succeeds best
in the dark. Wolfius is more explicit. On the authority
of a philosopher of the name of Zahn, he tells us that this
experiment was performed at Vienna,
                                                   " ope duortnn specu-
lorum, &c, by means of two concaves of brass. The largest
was six feet, and the least three," (whether in diameter or
focal distance does not appear,) " and they were set 20 and
24 feet asunder.        In the focus of the largest were placed
pieces of burning charcoal, and in that of the least a can
dle, whose wick was wrapt round with a thread dipt in
sulphur.        The result was, that the reflected rays from
the coals lighted the candle f."               (The ingenious members
of the Askesian Society have very lately fired gunpowder
by a similar apparatus.) And Rcgnault, in the place before
quoted, affirms, that
                              " the moderns have spherical con
caves which kindle gunpowder with the ravs of charcoal, in
the foci of each other, at the distance of 50 French feet,"
   *   See Lett, sur le Progres  des    Scenes, in Let CEwj.  de Mauperluis,
P- 349-
    |  Elcm. Matbcs.   Univ. torn. i;i. p. 191.
                                                                 »   above

                 for  the Defence of this Island.              59
above 53     English.) But what is all this to the purpose?
These results were procured by two reflections ; and Napier,
in burning an enemy's fleet, could only use one reflection,
if indeed, in this instance, he did not also have recourse to
refraction.     Of such an effect not a trace is to be found in
any    of  the books   to which I have access.    But I will not
be so rash as to affirm the thing to be impossible in itself,
or even beyond the ability of Napier. We have seen how
much the greatest philosophers were mistaken about the
practicability of his first proposal, afterwards so happily
verified by Kircher and Buffbn.
    III. On our illustrious author's third proposal we cannot
offer so good a commentary as the following curious extract
from the 15th page of his well-written lite, by the carl of
Buchan and Dr. Minto, printed at Perth in 1787.
    Sir Thomas Urquhart, of Cromarty, (the biographer of
the admirable Crichton) in his Jewel, " after having re
 ferred his readers to his trigonometrical work infilled Tris-
soletrns, for the praises of Napier, thus mentions" " an
almost incomprehensible device, which being in the mouths
 of the most of Scotland, and yet unknown to any that ever
 was in the world but himself, deservetb very well to be
taken notice of in this place ; and it is this : — He had the
skill, as is commonly reported, to frame an engine (for in
 vention not much unlike that of Archytas's dove) which by
 virtue of some secret springs, inward ressorts, with other im->
 plernents, and materials fit for the purpose, inclosed within
the bowels thereof, had the power, if proportionable in
 bulk to the action required of it, (for he could have made it
 of all sizes) to clear a field of four miles circumference of
 all the living creatures exceeding a foot in height that should
 be found thereon, how near soever they minTit be found to
 one another ; by which means he made it appear that lie
 was able, with the help of this machine alone, to kill thirty
thousand Turks, without the hazard of one Christian.
 Of this it is said that (on a wager) he gave proof upon a
 large plain in Scotland, to the destruction of a great many
 head of cattle and Hocks of sheep, whereof some were di
 stant. from other half a mile on all sides, and some a whole
 mile.     To continue the thread of my story, as I have it,
 I must not forget, that when he was most earnestly desired,
 by an old acquaintance and professed friend of his, even
 about the time of his contracting the disease whereof he
 died, that he would be pleased for the honour of his familv,
 ami his own everlasting memory to posterity, to reveal unto
 turn the manner of the contrivance of so ingenious a mys
                                                            tery ;

 60              Lord Napier's different Contrivances
 tery; subjoining   thereto, for the better persuading him,
 that it were a thousand pities that so excellent an invention
 should be buried with him in the grave, and that after his
decease nothing should be known thereof; his answer was,
 "  That for the ruin and overthrow of man there were too
 many devices already framed, which, if he could make to
 be fewer, he would with all his might endeavour to do ; and
 that therefore, seeing the malice and rancour rooted in the
 heart of mankind will not suffer them to diminish the
number of them, by any new conceit of his, they should
never be increased." Divinely spoken truly I" — Urquhart's
 Tracts, Edinburgh 1774. 8vo. p. 57.
     IV. To justify lord Napier's fourth proposal, not to
certify    it,
             but merely to abate from its apparent incredibi
 lity, to ordinary minds, the reader may refer to the 58th
and nine following articles of the ever memorable marquis
of Worcester's Century of Inventions.         They are all in
some measure kindred devices to those of Napier and one           ;
of them (the 6-lth) the noble inventor says, was tried and
approved before king Charles I., accompanied         6ne hun    by
dred lords and commons.
    V. The concluding; paragraph of the memoir before us
contains nothing specific, except " devices of sailing under
the water."    And some years after the date of this memoir,
perhaps during the life of its noble author, this mode of
sailing appears to have been successfully exemplified      but         ;
whether in the way or ways known to Napier, no histori
cal documents authorizes us to say         All that we know
                                                  *.
with any certainty          is,
                         that the famous Dutch philosopher
Cornelius Drebell, the reputed inventor of the microscope
and the thermometer          t,
                           constructed for king James                      I.   a
subaqueous vessel, which he tried on the Thames, and
which carried twelve rowers, besides some passengers, for
whom the effete air was again rendered respirable                     by   ali
quor the composition of which Drebell never would com
municate to more than one person, and that person told
W- Boyle what was      it     \.
    The next subaqueous navigator seems to havo been the
                                                      marquis
   * Suverien Dirt'on. art. Vaxaeau Urinatoirr.
  +   See Ssvcricn's  Dtciion.,  articles Micioio.pe ami Tbrrmtmetre    ;  al'o
Bossut,   Hist. G,n-  tie Mnlbcm.    prr. iii. cb. 6-, an interestuij; work,
which lias lately been translated  by   Mr. IJonnvcasrle.
J    See Boyle's Kxp. Phys. Mcch.of the Spring of the Air        ;  also Hut-
ton's Diet., trx.Drving.     De Coetlogon, in his Univ. Hist, of Arts and
Sciences, art. Diving, ridicules the accounts ^iven of this liquor    by Boyle
                                «' would be
sad Chambers, ami says he                     apt to imagine that Drcbell't
                                                                        liquor

                    for   the Defence    of this Island.                  61
margins of Worcester. The articles of his Century of In
ventions, in which he makes mention of his contrivance for
this purpose, are the following : — Art. IX. " An engine,
portable in one's pocket, which may be carried and fastened
on the inside of any ship, lanquam aliud agens," (as if one
was doing something else)            "  and at any appointed minute,
though      a  week     after,  either  of day or night, it shall irre
coverably sink        that  ship."     Art.  X., " A way from a mile
off,    to dive  and  fasten   a  like engine to any skip, so as it may
punctually      work     the same    effect either tor time or execu
tion."
     In Saverien's Dictionary, article         Vaisseau Urinatoire, we
read that     Dr. Papin      endeavoured to recover the lost inven
tion of Drebell, and that he has described a submarine boat
in his Fasciculus Dissertationum ; but whether or not this
boat was ever tried, we are not told.
     Claudero (as he called himself, for his real name was
 Wilson) a minor poet, who, about 30 years ago, flourished in
 Edinburgh, by writing satires, or rather lampoons, dedi
 cates one of his pieces, which I read with much pleasure
 when a boy, to his scheming countryman Peter William
 son *. Among other reasons for his chusing that great
 man for his patron, the poet mentions, or in truth ridicules,
 his proposal for opening a sulforthian communication be
  tween Leith and Kinghorn, without the tedious formality
 of waiting for wind and tide. Hence it is probable, that
 Williamson hud proposed or attempted this species of na-
 liquor was nothing more than spirit of nitre rectified in an extraordinary
 manner."      But modern chemists will be apt to consider Dc Cotilogon's
 remark as equally ridiculous with those which he laughs at.
     * Williamson certainly was a man of genius or mental resource.        At
 his life has never appeared, at least in any respectable form, the reader
 will probably pardon the insertion of the following particulars, which t
 believe are pretty correct: —Peter Williamson was stolen when a boy
 fiom Abenlccn — sold in America, for his passage — married, or ran
 awp.y with his master's daughter — settled in the back country— had hit
 house burnt, and his wife and family murdered by a party of Indians,
 who seeing him a stout man spared his life, and, loading him with the
 most portable of his own effects, marched him to their village — lived
  there for several ye,;rs in the Indian stvle— lired of this modi: ¦r life —
 eloped and returned to Scotland, where he found means to bring such of
  his kidnappers     as were alive, to punishment — went about the country
  with models of Indian canoes, dresses, tomahauks, &c, exhibiting him
  self in the Indian costume, and e xplaining their mode of warfare, &c.(
  &c. — His war-whoop and death-holla (or hollow as he called it) were
  horrible.— Peter had many schemes, but I have not heard that any of
  them succeeded, except the Penny Post-Office at Edinburgh, of which
  useful institution    he was the founder.   Government afterwards took it
  into their own hands, and allowed him an annuity.
                       4                                          vigation.

 (J2            Lord Napier's 'different Contrivances
 vigation.    I  have understood too,     that the respectable and
 patriotic  Mr. Miller of Dalswinton, who,        some years ago,
 made    several  expensive experiments     at Leith, for the im
 provement of     shipping;  also  contrived   a submarine vessel,
 with what success I have not heard.         But either or both of
 these facts might be easily ascertained, were it worth while.
     About 30 years ago, a Mr. Day, after a submarine ad
 venture, which was in some degree successful, made a
 second attempt, I think at Plymouth, but never appeared
 again upon the surface.     The particulars are detailed m tho.
 Annual Register, or some similar compilation.
     The fourth volume of the American Philosophical Trans
 actions contains a more interesting detail of this kind. The
 37th article is intitlcd " General Principles and Construc
 tion of a Submarine Vessel, communicated by D. Bush-
 nell of Connecticut, the invcutor, in a letter of October
 178", to Thomas Jefferson, then minister plenipotentiary
 of the United States at Paris." Mr. Bushnell affirms, that
 one of his operators actually brought his boat under a Bri
 tish fifty gun-ship, lying near New York ; but the screw
 (for attaching to the ship's bottom the magazine containing
 150lbs. of powder, to be fired by clock-work, which would
go 12 hours, if necessary) happened to strike upon iron,
 and the man, in moving the apparatus, lost the ship.          Mr.
Bushnell further states, that in 1777 he made an attempt on
the Cerberus frigate, lying at anchor near New London.
The frigate escaped : but his machine, which was con
ducted by a line, without any person on board, exploded
and totally demolished a schooner, which was concealed
from his view by the frigate, and received the shock in
tended for the latter. In the same year one of his machine.?,
which was calculated to go off by a slight touch, was di
rected against some British shipping in the Delaware, but
was intercepted by a boat, which it destroyed.          Mr. Bush
nell says that his apparatus was contrived in 1771, but not
finished till 1777> when, happily, as it would appear, for
many British vessels, circumstances prevented him from
bringing his ship-destroying scheme to that perfection of
which he plainly saw it was capable.
    Such schemes, however, are far from being abandoned.
M. St. Aubin, member of the Tribunate at Paris, pub
lished, about 1 8 months ago an account of a diving-boat,
invented by a Mr. Fulton, another American.             This boat,
if we may implicitly believe the description, which other
accounts of the kind certainly render credible, will be truly
formidable to the ships acain^t which it mav be employed.
                                                               We

                      for   the Defence     of this Island.       63
We arc told that Mr. Fulton was then constructing a boat
sufficient to contain eight men, with provisions for 20 clays
and air for 8 hours, and strong enough to bear submersion
to the depth of 100 feet, if necessary. At Havre (in a boat,
as would seem, of an inferior size) Mr. Fulton remained an
hour under water, made half a league of way in that time
with his boat horizontally situated, and at various depths,
where he found that the compass traversed exactly as on
the surface.    To his boat he attached a machine by means
of which he blew up a lighter in Brest harbour. When above
water, Mr. Fulton's boat is rigged with two sails, and has
exactly the appearance of a common boat *.
   Though my comments have already been pretty copious,
I  cannot quit the subject without adding some remarks
which obviously arise out of it. In the first place, from our
quotation from sir T. Urquhart, it appears that Napier,
before his death, which happened in 1617, far from viewing
his inventions as either " profitable or necessary," thought
them only worthy of that everlasting oblivion to which hi;
endeavoured to consign them.      It is curious to observe that
sir Isaac Newton, his great successor in mathematical pre
eminence, expressed to Dr. David Gregory, the astronomer,
the same strong disapprobation of all such destructive con
trivances ; as we learn from the additions which his nephew,
the late Dr. Reid, of Glasgow, made to the life of Dr. John
Gregory, prefixed to his works printed at Edinburgh in
17Sb|/
   Cervantes, who puts much excellent morality and philo
sophy into the mouth of Don Quixote, a wise man in every
respect but one, makes him say that
                                      " he verily believes the
inventor of artillery is now in hell. "J       Milton, in the
"   Paradise Lost," ascribes the invention of cannon to the
leaders of the infernal legions ; and Dean Swift, in his tra
vels of Gulliver, reprobates, with his usual severity, our per
version of geometry, mechanics, and chemistry, to the dis
covery of the mcan3 of mutual destruction.
   But, notwithstanding the opinions of these great men,
which do infinite honour to their humanity, it is now gene
rally agreed, that the modern battles with fire-arms, dis
charged at a distance, in the midst of smoke and without
passion, are far less sanguinary than the close, we may say
personal and angry, combats of the antients ; except when
    * Slc tlie E'.ir
                     pean Magazine for April i8o», p. 145.
    ¦f-
      Sec also Dr- Hutton's Dictionary, article Gregory.
    X   See   Smuliet'i Quixotic, vol.   11, p. 151.
                                                              decided

  64             Lord Napier'* different Contrivances
  decided by the sword,     pike, or bayonet, which, no doubtj
  produce   as great animosity and carnage now as weapons of
  the saine kind did formerly. At any rate, it is probable that
  there is not a philosopher or a christian now in this king
  dom, who would object to any improvement in the art of
  dispatching an. invading foe. Certain it is that ourenemies,
  even in the highest paroxysm of their rage for philanthropy
  and fraternization, did not scruple to adopt the improve
  ment of great guns, by the late ingenious and learned pro
  fessor Anderson, of Glasgow, to which they owed many of
  their victories.
     Whether Mr. Gillespie's new-invented batteries, by
 means of which he engages to protect the whole British
  coast with no more than twenty thousand men, may prove
 as valuable a defensive expedient as Mr. Anderson's          has
 been a terrible offensive one, I pretend not to say.     I have,
  however, just seen a letter from Lieutenant General Hugh
 Debbieg, colonel of the Royal Invalid Engineers, containing
 his opinion of it : " Though I cannot,* says that profes
 sional gentleman,    "  altogether subscribe to the very exten
 sive application which Mr. Gillespie seems to think his ma
 chine may be put to, yet I am most firmly of opinion it may
 be found of superior utility on many particular spots, and
 on a great variety of occasions, and, as such, that it ought
 to be adopted by His Majesty's servants.      I have no manner
 of hesitation in declaring my most ardent wishes that, for the.
 good of the King's service, such measures may be taken as
 may prove effectual in preventing him, with his model,
 from going out of this country, to seek the well-earned re
 compense for an invention of such transcendant merit."
    If Lord Napier, it may be asked, made such discoveries,
how came they to be neglected and forgotten ? The answer
has been anticipated : Napier himself neglected them, and
wished them to be forgotten. But it maybe asked in return,
How came the inventions of the marquis of Worcester, one
hundred of which were publicly offered to the Parliament,
and some of them tried and approved by many of its mem
bers, suffered, after all, to be lost to the nation and to man
kind ? Several of those inventions were, no doubt, more
eurious than useful ; but their value in the aggregate, may,
in some measure, be estimated by considering how many me
tallic veins, otherwise inaccessible, the steam engine (the 68th
of the marquis's century) has converted into sources of cm-
             and wealth ; and how much has been saved in the
  abour and maintenance of horses, since the ingenious Mr.
f)loymcnt
Watt, of Glasgow, applied that engine as a moving power to
                                                         macbi-

                    On the Form            of Spectacle-Glasses »                              fl$
machineryi The steam-engine was re-discovered by Thomas
Savery, £sq. treasurer to tiie Sick and Hurt Office ; and the
telegraph (the subject of the marquis's sixth and seventh ar
ticles) by Dr. Hook, as has been already proved *. But most
of that great collection, it is to be feared, will long remain
undiscovered, — monuments alike of the marquis's superior
genius, and of the barbarous stupidity of his cotemporaries
in neglecting such a treasure.
  *** Should          the reader observe that               I   have taken no notice
of bishop Wilkins in what I have said of sub-marine navi
gation, I can only say, that though the Mathematical Magic
was lying before me, I unaccountably overlooked             till the           it,
printer had advanced too far to admit its being quoted in the
proper place.    But this omission      of the less consequence,
                                                    is
as the hfth chapter of the bishop's second book, which                                         is
employed on that subject,         chiefly speculative and hypo
                                               is
thetical, some part of      indeed extravagantly so.
                                      it                      must               I
except this sentence — >" That such      contrivance    a feasible,         is
and may be effected,      beyond all question, because
                                 is                            hath                  it
been already experimented, here in England,             Cornelius         by
Drebell." This positive assertion of bishop Wilkins               of                      is
the more importance, as Drebcll's experiment was probably
made in his own lite-time      for he was born in 1614, above
                                           ;
twelve years before Mr. Boylef, and within the limits of
king James the first's reign (1(503 and 1625), when that ex
periment was made.
   When the above was almost printed off,            lighted on      I                          a
quotation from an old author, which threatens to deprive
Napier of the priority of his proposal for exciting combus
tion by  the solar rays and two passages, which will tend to
                                 ;
give us new views of the invention of the telescope.            But
probably your readers, as well as myself, have enough of
such subjects for the present.                              *D.
VIII.       Observations       on     Dr. Wollaston's                Statements            re
  specting an Improvement in the Form     Spectacle-                  of
  Glasses.   By William Jonks, Esq. F.Am. P. S. Op
  tician, Holhorn.
V-Jbserving, in your Magazine for last month,                                    that     Dr.
H. Wollaston,           by a     paper inserted therein,            is   attempting to
introduce into the construction of spectacles,                      the   well-knowa
        •   Phil. Mag.    vo!.   i.
     t      See   Dr. Hutton's Diftionarv, article!         hylt   and Wtlkini.
  Vol. XVIII.
                                               '
                        No. 69.                     E                                     and

66                  On I he Form   of   Spet fade- Glasses.
and obsolete    form of lens, called a meniscus, instead of the.
common glasses, I beg leave, sir, to offer through the same
channel a few observations on his arguments ; and my opi
nion why I do not consider the contrivance entitled to any
claim, either to novelty or improvement.
    When a printed book, or other object, is viewed through a
convex; spectacle-glass, or other lens, of a short focal di
stance, such as seven inches down to four inches, or less, the
indistinctness observed of the surrounding parts, when the
central appears clear, arises from the spherical figure of the
lens, and     is,       by
                   opticians, called the longitudinal aberration
of the lens. There         another kind of aberration connected
                             is
with this lens, called the lateral aberration, which             occa
                                                                  is
sioned        the prismatic form of the lens, producing
             by                                                    dif a
ferent rerrangibility of the rays of light, and blending the
prismatic colours with their appearance of the object.                  It   is
the longitudinal aberration only that           have now occasion
                                                   I
to consider.      This aberration in lenses of the same foci                in
creases with their diameter and thickness, and of the same
diameter,         is,
                 in the inverse proportion to the foci.
    The ravs issuing from distant objects, are more parallel to
each other, when incident upon the lens, than proximate
ones; therefore the aberration will be less.
     fence
     1       itmay be inferred, that when spectacle-dasses are
made larger in diameter than the angular extent of objects
to be seen through them require               person in that case,
                                                  (a
without much inclining the axis of his eyes, or feeling              init
convenient, moving his head little), they have very properly
                                        a
been reduced somewhat             diameter, the aberration being
                                   in
diminished, and consequently the objection, in great de       a
gree, removed, except in glasses that are of very short foci.
    In concave glasses the aberration, or indistinctness,             ofis
a  similar nature the delect of these being from the imper
                         ;
fect divergence of the ravs, instead of the imperfect conver
gence bv convex glasses.
    Spectacle-glasses arc now generally made of the double
concave and double convex kinds, or nearly so for             ;   little
                                                                   a
alteration of figure does not affect the general appearance of
objects viewed through them.            in science as in other cases,
                                        It   is
that     general utility
         a                does   not  always depend upon trifling
 alterations.    Spectacles are recorded to have been invented
 about the year 1300, and from reading, and many years ex
perience     inthis small but invaluable article,        really do not
                                                         I
know    that  during  the elapsed  time,   an  optical instrument      of
anv kind whatsoever has undergone more innovation and
attempts at improvement.          Of many to my knowledge                   I
                                                                  shall

                 On the Form   of  Speclacle^G'lasses.              6f
Ahall only select the following as entitled to any degree of
commendation — Ayscough's crown-glass spectacles, the bi
sected glasses of Dr. Franklin, the visual glasses of that
learned optician Mr. Martin, the square convex form by
Storer, the patent combined glasses of Messrs. Watkins and
Smith, injudiciously called Achromatic, consisting of aeon-
vex lens combined with a meniscus or concavo-convex lens.
In the mountings of the frames a still greater variety could
be enumerated.
   Notwithstanding these contrivances, universal experience
has caused the original and simple form of glasses to super
sede them; and it affords an indubitable proof that it is the
best and most convenient that can be contrived, when clear
glass, accurate tools, and good workmanship, are used. The
theorem given by fJuygens, and demonstrated by many
other subsequent writers on optics, proving that a convex
lens, having its radii of curvatures in the proportion of one
to six, contains less aberration than any other form of lens,
when the greatest convexity is towards the object ; and the
«ame for the concave lens must hold true for any use whatso
ever for which such a formed lens may he required.
   It does not appear to have occurred to Dr. W. that the
eye-glasses used to magnify thcimages formed by the object-
glasses    in telescopes are of the best fortiij when with
the curves of the proportion above mentioned.            In the eye
pieces   of  the  best achromatic   telescopes they  arc  alwa\ s ap1-
plied,  and,  in  high powers,  the   image frequently   subtends  an
angle   from    the centre  of the  eye-glass  of  sixty degrees or
more. I have never seen anv correct dioptrical theorem that
tended to prove that a meniscus, singly or combined, will
auswer so perfectly the same purpose. The ordinary pur
poses of vision are very well answered by the common
glasses under an angle as large as eighty or ninety degrees ;
and the best artists or draughtsmen allow, that Go0 is as much
as a fixed position of the eye ought in perspective to embrace,
to convey a just representation on the optic nerve.
   To persons the humours of whose eyes arc so decayed as to
be deficient in the original refractive power, glasses of short
foci will to them render the extreme parts of objects some
what confused, but in a much less degree than to persons
with perfect eyes or undeeayed humours.
   In telescopes and microscopes the aberration is usually cut
off by the insertion of circular apertures or Steps, but in
spectacles     this is not essentially necessary, nor does the
want of them, nor the figure of the glasses, prove that they
are constitutionally bad and prejudicial.
                                 K  3                            Tho

68               On the Form  of Spectacle-Glasses.
    The observation of Dr. W., that onlv a portion of the glass
ajittlc larger than the pupil of the eye is employed at once,
is only just in as much as it relates to the mind being intent
on a point of an object, but not so in regard to a general
view ; for the refractive power of the lens does most admi
rably collect all the infinite number of pencils of rays or
cones into one assemblage at the pupil of the eve, where
they cross or intersect each other: yet such is the exquisite
suhtilty of light, that no confusion or irritation takes place.
A'lan is thus blessed by assisted vision, as he is in vitality by
 the respiration of air. Dr. VV.'s inferring the form of a me
niscus from the shape of a globe is manifestly erroneous,
 and in respect to spectacles inappropriate : a glass globe or
 sphere, without any sensible thickness, to an eye exactly
 placed in its centre admits 'all the incident rays to pass
 through it unrcfracted.     If the eye deviates from the centre,
 a refraction will take place, and that in proportion to the
 thickness of the sphere.      Kays of incidence pass perfectly
 unrefracted through a true ground plane or parallel glass
 to an eye before     it ; and let the axis of   the eye be ever so
 much inclined, unless the glass be very thick, the object
 will still appear perfect, and no refraction of the incident
 rays be observed. It is obvious, therefore, thenearer a lens ap
 proaches to the figure of a plane, the more perfect it must be.
     The figure of a meniscus, which Dr. W. wishes to adopt,
 is .is different from a sphere as a plane.     Its figure is com
 posed of two positions of spheres, of different radii. When
 with a positive focus, it is mathematically demonstrable that
 it has entirely the properties of a convex lens, and, with a
 nctrative focus, the properties of a concave one.       When the
 radius of the exterior curve is less than that of the interior,
 it is a convex sort of lens, and magnifies ; but when the ra
 dius of the interior curve is less than that of the other, a
 concave lens, and diminishes. It has also been demonstrated,
  that the nearer the form of the meniscus approaches to that
 of a plano-convex or concave, the more perfect it will be,
 and contain less aberration.
     I shall dispense here with proofs by algebraical and ana
  lytical formula?, as any qualified reader will find them in the
 optical works of Hnygcns, Molineux, Eider, D'Alembert,
  Smith, Emerson, Martin, and many others.
     The rays of light issuing from a near object to a spectacle-
  glass before the eye are in diverging pencils or cones, and
 the meniscus form of glass, of any certain positive focus,
 will refract them towards a state of parallelism into the eye
                                                             neces

                 On the Form  of Spectacle-Glasses.           6%
necessary    to produce distinct vision in decayed sight pre
cisely  in the  same manner as a double convex, or plano-con
vex. A meniscus, with a negative focus, acts noways dif
ferently from the double or plano-concave glasses, the rays
of light being diverged somewhat to counteract the effects of
too great a convexity in the humours of the eye of a short
sighted person. Perhaps it is hardlv necessary to observe,
that imperfect vision in the optical" sense consists, in the
long-siglited eve, in the rays of light not being sufficiently
converged by its humours to meet on the retina of the eye,
but fallbeyond it ; and in a short-sighted eye by the rays
converging too much, so as to meet before they reach the
retina.
   . Varying the geometrical figure of a lens does not consti-*
tute any new optical principle ; for any of the common
species of lenses may be cut into the form of a square, a
triangle, an oval, &c, all figuratively various, but consisting
only of one optical principle.
     The use of the meniscus has been abandoned by opticians,
 by its containing, in comparison with other lenses, the
 greatest spherical surface, and consequently producing the
 greatest aberration.     Reducing the curvatures of the menis
 cus elongates the focus, and the same manner as in other
 lenses, and therefore reduces the aberration. Hence, in
 spectacle-glasses    that are not of short foci no perceptible
 difference will be found to persons unacquainted with op
 tical experiments.     There are various practical methods that
 will point out to persons the aberration of lenses here spoken
 of, and that the meniscus causes the greatest of any of the •>
 Other form of lenses ; but the following I recommend as
 the most easy and illustrative :
     Take a meniscus lens about the size of a spectacle-glass,
  and with four inches positive focus, and take also a plano
  convex, or a double convex of the same diameter and focus,
  in a room with one lighted candle; at a distance, by night,
  hold the convex glass near to the white wall or wainscot side
  of the room ; between it and the candle move the lens back
  ward and forward, till aclear,. image of the candle be formed,
  which will be a distant inverted image of it. Do the same
  with the meniscus, and there will be this difference observed
  in the meniscus, that, encircling the vivid image of the
  flame, there will be a faint white light, which is the circle
  of the aberration. These evidently show that the meniscus is
   the worst form of the two for a spectacle-glass or any other
   purpose.
                                E3                             If

 10               On the Farm    of Spectacle- Glasses.
     If  a person    places a meniscus spectacle-glass before his
  eye  of  a lone focus, and views, towards its extremity, one
  or more lighted candles, he will observe the flames tinged
  with prismatic colours, but not so with the usual convex
  glass.    In this position both the effects of longitudinal and
  lateral aberration arc produced.
     Two double convex glasses placed together in one cell
 contain less aberration than one. glass of the same diameter
 and focus 5 and two plano-convex glasses, with their con
 vex sides placed together in one cell, cive still less aberra
 tion.     It is loss of light only that can be objected to. They
 ?re too weighty to be adopted in spectacles, but in the eye
 pieces of large telescopes for viewing celestial objects they
 have been used to great advantage.          To the engravers, mi
 niature-painters, and other artists, ihcy are most useful, as,
 bv short foci, and large apertures, thev give them the most
 distinct view of a large surface placed before them.
     For the satisfaction of anv intelligent person who may be
 disposed to have an ocular proof of the properties of glasses,
 a.s herein advanced,      I have constructed a frame containing a
 double convex, a plano-comex, a meniscus, and two plano-
 cotivexes with their convex sides to each other, all of the same
 diameter ; and bv which may be seen that the greatest peri-
 pheretieal indistinctness is with the meniscus glass. — This
 apparatus will be shown by application at our manufactory
in Holborn.
    The. meniscus, as a figure for aspectacle-slass,      I consider
 very objectionable.        To afford a 1urge field of view its dia
meter must be considerable, which, for a short locus, will
increase thickness, protuberance outward, and weight, and,
in concave glasses, occasion the frames to be made thicker.
The    glasses will be more liable to be scratched and broken
than those of the common form, and, when the frames are
metallic, more liable to increase than diminish that inde
lible mark made on the nose by the weight of the frame, so
frequently complained of by persons who wear spectacles
constantly.       A great deal of superfluous light also passing
through the glasses must be evidently prejudicial ; and it ap
pears to me that the concave figure of the inner side of the
meniscus will act as a powerful reflector to condense the
rays of light and heat upon the eyes, and ultimately prove
thereby of serious injury.
    I have in my possession a meniscus spectacle-glass, taken
from a spectacle frame, which I can prove to have been
made a great many years ago : and finally, as it is neither,
                                                               new

            Thirteenth Communication from Dr. Thornton.                          71
   new in principle or in practice, I am at a loss to know upon
   what sort of discovery his majesty's letters patent have been
   solicited.
                                    I am, Sir, your's, &c.
       To  A.   Tilloch, Esq.                             William Jones.
   IX.     Thirteenth Communication from Dr. Thornton, re
                       lative to Pneumatic Medicine.
                                                                Feb. 1 1, 1804..
                             To    Mr. Tilloch.            No. i, Hinde-street,
         SIR,                                                Maiicheitcr-squari .
  -In no instance         has    the    triumph    of pneumatic medicine
  been more conspicuous than in putrid fever ; a disease which
  destroys at all periods of life, and becomes a national cala
  mity when its direful ravages spread from town to town,
  filling all parts with desolation and dismay, and even some
  times extending from empire to empire.
                   A  Case of Typhus, or Putrid Fever.
       Miss Corp, at sixteen*, the amiable niece of alderman Price
   (late lord mayor), daughter of Mr. Corp, an eminent practi
  tioner, of Rarnct, who had seen typhus fevers in both the
  Kast and West Indies, and was upwards of thirty years esta
  blished in extensive practice in that partot the country where
  he now resides, after every means that human sagacity could
 devise, found symptoms at length of approaching dissolution
 arrive to his daughter.          In the same lever a neighbour, a few
 doors off, was now a corse, leaving behind him a wife and
 six children.        This daughter was a beloved child, and so
 that when the father was requested to see to his patients and
 business, Mr. Corp refused all abstraction from his at
 tentions, and with the most poignant sorrow, at an advanced
 stage of the disease, was publicly obliged to declare to the
 numerous inquiries which were made,                    "   that every- hope-
 was now vanished."             The lady was convulsed throughout ;
 tire tendons were in constant action ; the countenance was
sunk ; and the eyes fixed and ghastly.                  Mrs. Corp, and the
 persons     in  the  house,   requested    the father   to leave the room,
     *
        The reader will recollect this case was briefly published before in our
Magazine, vol. iv, with     a letter from Mr. Corp,     of Burnet, confirming
the contents; the young lady, since that period, being in the enjoyment of
good health : but the valuable observations herein added, with the cure
performed in 179] are fresh articles, and open a glonuus field for philo-
j'.pluc considerations.— £o IT.
                                      E  4                                   and

78    Thirteenth Commxmicalionfrom           J)r.    Thornton,
and suffer the young lady to expire in quiet : and the reluc
tant parent having retired, on a sudden he roused from hi*
despair, and said, " he would set off tor Dr. Thornton di
rectly in a chaise, to try what the vital air could accom
plish." The chance of her dying before he could arrive
was urged ; but Mr. Corp was bent upon               it,
                                                    and he came
in violent haste to nie.     I was out   :but he soon followed
himself where.   I was gone, and found me.        made no delay
                                                     1
to prepare the apparatus     :  balloon of silk with
                                 a                       pipe for
                                                           a
the insertion and emission of the air, bellows to inflate
                                             a                       it,
and some     tin vessels filled with the oxygen gas.          The
horses were good, the roads fine, and the boy made willing           ;
and soon     reached the house of sickness and despair.       She
                                     The mother requested "
         I
was yet alive, and that was all.                                     I
would attempt nothing that would add           pang to her last
                                                 a
moments." The nurse, who pretended to be very knowing,
said "  that my being brought down was         heinous sin
                                                 a            and;
if  Miss Corp was her child should not he allowed even to
                                 I
see her."    Such obstruction we arc prepared to meet         and;
ordering all out who were in the room, except her friend Mrs.
Smith, who was weeping by her bed-side, filled my balloon
                                                 I
with nearly equal parts of vital and atmospheric air, and by
dosing the mouth and one no.stril, and inserting the tube
into the other, and pressing up the superoxygenated air»
watching the times of, inspiration, suffering the expiratiou
to be free, this most reviving of all cordials reanimated au
almost sunk frame    ;  the subsultus ceased    the eves became
                                                 ;
more themselves; the nulsc diminished                in
                                                   velocity, and
increased in vigour      and when
                         ;           Ispoke to her, as d'.iJ .Mrs.
Smith, after the inhalation, she, appeared to understand,
took down    a glass of wine, was revived      more air was in
                                                 ;
haled, and   I   quitted the room to tell Mr. Corp of the
effects, and for him to give her her former medicines, which
she rationally received and swallowed.       Having exhausted
my air, and written my directions for the night,        remained
                                                           I
at Mr. Corp's, and in the morning left his house to come
to town to obtain       fresh supply of air, and see my other
                         a
patients. Upon my return back, towards evening, the
same good from the oxygenated air resulted as before, and
I   pronounced " that my patient would now in all human
 probability recover."     These visits being daily renewed,         I
had the felicity to restore to her most tender parents, to her
 friends, and the community,        to which,    by uncommon
 virtues and accomplishments, she had rendered herself
 eminently dear,     ayoung lady wham        do not hesitate to
                                             I
                                                           pronounce

                         On Pneumatic Medicine.                           73
pronounce as one out of the maDy patients rescued from
the jaws of death by the powers of pneumatic medicine*.
                     Anotlwr    Case   of Typhus Fever.
     December       1 703. — Dr.    Beddocs published 'the following
communication I had the honour to address to him.
     " I was lately called to a child 1 3 years old : she had
typhus fever, which had attacked two others in the same
house.        Mr. Murdock, the father of the child, apologized
for sending to me when his daughter was at the point of
death. Having entered the room, I found her convulsed,
speechless, and the eyes sunk, and her breathing extremely
laborious.        The attendants had even ceased to give her food,
nor was medicine so much as thought of.                    Having placed
near her mouth the superoxygenated air, and afterwards
 filled the room with fine sprays of vinegar, and well venti
lated the chamber, she revived to the wonder of all present,
took food, afterwards medicine, and finally recovered to the
 astonishment of every one.
               Remarks by      Dr. Thornton      on tliese Cases.
      1 . Putrid fevers arc often engendered           by bad air alone.
     Captain Ellis, late governor of Georgia, in his voyage
 to Hudson's Bay, gives us the following account from on
 board the Halifax. The people were all healthy for a con
 siderable time ; viz. till the ventilators were so spoiled by
 rats eating not only the leathern but the wooden parts of
 them, that they became of no manner of use : then putrid
  fevers appeared, and most of the crew died.
     Sir John Pringle, in his work on the diseases of soldiers,
 gives us likewise numerous examples of the same kind.
     The late Dr. Darwin one day at Nottingham assembled
 a large crowd of people around him, and standing upon a
 tub, thus addressed himself to the populace.
      "   Ye men of Nottingham, listen to mc. You are inge
 nious and industrious mechanics.                 By your industry life's
  comforts are procured for yourselves and families.                  If you
  lose your health, the power of being industrious will forsake
 you.       That you know; but you may not know, that to
  breathe fresh and changed air constantly is not less neces
  sary to preserve health than sobriety itself.               Air becomes
  unwholesome in a few hours if the windows'are shut. Open
  those of your sleeping-rooms whenever you quit them to go
     *   This young   lady was cured in 1791), and has contii.u.i! since  that
  pcriuti in  jerfeu   health.
                                                                            to

  74       Thirteenth Communication from        Dr. Thornton.
  to your workshops.        Keep the windows of your workshops
  open whenever the weather is not insupportably cold.               I
  have no interest in giving you this advice. Remember what
  I, your countryman, and a physician, tell you.              If you
  would not bring infection and disease upon yourselves, and
  to your wives and little ones, change the air you breathe,
  change it many times in a day, by opening your win
  dows."
     2. Pure air is the antidote against infection.
    This is shown from the performance of quarantine.
     3. The admission of the purest air is of infinite service
 in  fevers.
     I  have often heard     Mr. Ahernethy, a gentleman of the
 strongest natural sense and most refined intellect, speak with
 rapture on the benefits he perceived in putrid fever from his
 patients being placed in different currents of air.
                                                            " I have
 always," says the great Dr. Lind,
                                            "  observed the benefits
 resulting to the sick in fevers, when removed from the cabin
 of ships to the better air of Haslar hospital. I have even
 been informed by a credible practitioner, long resident in
 Jamaica, that he had frequently seen the poor seamen in
 the merchants' service to recover from the worst putrid fe
 vers, even the yellow fever, solely by having the benefit of
 a free and constant admission of the pure sea air into a,
 ship anchored at a distance from the shore, where they lay            .
 Utterly destitute.of every assistance in sickness, and even of
 common necessaries,          having nothing but cold water to
 drink, and not so much as abed to lie on ; while gentlemen,
 on the contrary, shut up in small, close, and uuventilated
chambers, at Kingston, or Portroyal, expired with their
whole mass of blood dissolved, flowing from every pore ;
the bad vitiated air of their room having produced a state of
universal putrefaction in the body even before dealh."
    Upon my lamenting, when a student of Guy's hospital,
to my learned instaictor, Dr. Saunders, that it seemed a
cruelty to remove patients in putrid fever, apparently dying,
he replied,      "I   have ever seen that the coming over London
bridge     has  done   them infinite service."
   4.   It  appears,  that vital air,or some of its combinations,
diffused    in  fever wards, might banish the infection and also
cure   this  disease.
   A Fumigation Powder. — Nitre four pounds ; sulphur two
pounds ; southernwood, juniper berries, of each three
pounds; tar and myrrh a pound and a half.            This was tried
at Moscow in 1770, and ten malefactors uuder sentence
of death were fumigated well with this in the Lazarettov
                                                                and

 Influence of the Component Parts             of the Soil on Vegetation.              73
  and were confined for three weeks in this abode, saturated
 with infection,        made to sleep with persons infected with
  the plague, and even dead of it ; and not one were infected,
  or made    ill  of the disease. The vapour arising from the de
  composition of nitre         by
                               the vitriolic acid  perfectly harmless
                                                          is
 to be breathed, and may be employed                       in
                                                     every situation.
 This was used by] Mr. M'Gregor, after the plan of Dr.
  Carmichael Smith, who relates, in ten weeks at Jersey he
 lost in putrid fever 50 men from the 88th regiment; but,
 beginning the fumigation, not only the fever was banished
 the hospital, but that         changed the nature of the existing
                               it
 fevcrj   all   the malignant symptoms disappeared,        and of 64
 soldiers   ill  of the  rever not one   died.
    The subject of air will be renewed in future communications
 for your excellent magazine, and              hoped will rouse the
                                              it
                                              is                it
 philosophic spirits      of more practitioners to the investigation
 of so interesting an inquiry, which promises the most
 happy results.        In recalling back your readers to the sub
ject   of pneumatic medicine,         Ihere solemnly declare that                     I
 have no other motive than the good of society, and the
 extension of science, especially that which so intimately
relates to the happiness of mankind.                have the honour
                                                         I
 to remain, Sir,
                        Your obedient faithful servant,
                                             Robert John Thornton.
X. On     the Influence        of   the Component        Parts      of   the   Soil   on
                    Vegetation.          By M. Otto *.
 W hen      the old chemists endeavoured         to discover the
means     bywhich land could be brought to the greatest pos
sible state of fertility, thev imagined that this object could
be best discovered        the decomposition of vegetables
                          by                                   and             ;
that, from the kinds of earth obtained as         residuum, they
                                                            a
should be enabled ti> deduce what kind of plants would
thrive best in     certain kind of soil when enriched with
                    a
that which      chiefly found in them. That
               is                                   plant, for ex
                                                                a
ample, which contains        great deal of calcareous earth must
                               a
thrive in particular in calcareous soil, and that another
which contains siliceous earth ought to thrive in           sandy          a
soil.
   Attempts were made to prove this opinion         experiments,by
 *  Kroiji A'tveigtn der Cburfursilicb    S..cts:icten   Lciji gtr   Qtcoutmiscben
Soc-eiai. 1799.
                                                                                some

 76                         On the Influence        of  the
some of which, however, rendered it doubtful.                        The prac
tical agriculturist has made no use of this doctrin?, as he
observed in many cases the impossibility of subjecting his
fields to so expensive a revolution, and knew, from long
experience, that ground without manure produces very
little; and therefore he has neglected those works which
recommended it.
    But the case has been different with the modern chemis
try, which perhaps will make us better acquainted with the
nourishment and growth of vegetables.                       By the help of the
pneumatic apparatus other principles have been exhibited
to us in the vegetable kingdom than those supposed to exist
in them by our forefathers. Modern chemistry gives as
the component parts of vegetables, carbon, hydrogen, azote,
and oxygen, and shows that the existence of earths and
metals in the residuum is merely accidental; or at least
considers them as doubtful component parts of vegetables.
Whether alkalies exist in a substantial form in plants during
their vegetation cannot with certainty be determined, as it
is highly probable that they may be formed from hydrogen
and azote during the decomposition of organic bodies by
the help of fire. The native saltpetre found in the Glecoma
hederacea, Hclianthus animus, Tussilugn farfara, and some
species of gourd, and which is obtained from extracts of
the above plants, shows at any rate the existence of the
principles of these salts, which can only unite when the
vital power ceases to act.                 It is proved, by the experiments
and discoveries         of modern       chemistry, that the separation and
union     of  many principles          take   place in the course of vegeta
tion. For     it is   shown   by experience, that when plants are irri
tated   in   the    light  or  by the light, the water is decomposed
oxygen      set   free,   and     that they take into them, as a com
ponent part,         the  hydrogen ; also that a similar decomposi
tion   with    the    carbonic      acid must take place when the plants
are  irritated     by light;     for   it is oniy in the dark that carbonic
acid   is  exhaled.
    The presence of the fourth principle, azotic cas, in vege
tables, is proved by the component parts of the gluten in
maize, which by distillation in the dry way gives ammonia;
and thie, as is well known, can be again decomposed into
azote and hydrogen.                  These principles the plants receive
from    the   atmosphere       ;   for  in the atmospheric air with which
the plants      are    continually      surrounded     azote exists as a com
ponent part       ;  and   Priestley     has  proved, by a 6eries of experi-
                                                                    ,   ments,
              4

             Component     Parts of the Soil    on Vegetation.          77
jnenta, that plants can live and grow in pure azote after the
first expansion of the germ, which is effected by the acces
sion of oxygen, has taken place.
     Besides this proof chemists refer to a well-known and
instructive experiment, that plants thrive exceedingly well
in willow earth * ; and they assert that this earth consists
of nothing else than hydrogen, carbon, and oxygen, by
which they endeavour to show that the vessels used in the
operation, and local and accidental causes, may give occa
 sion to the existence of different kinds of earth in the resi
 dua, though they acknowledge that there are plants which
 contain among their component parts a great deal of pure
 earth.
     From this may be deduced the following consequence ;
 that the requisites for promoting the growth of plants, be
 sides light, heat, and atmospheric air, of which I do not
 here mean to treat, are good mould, which is indispensably
 necessary, and which is similar to the above-mentioned
 willow earth, consisting of matters in part dissolved by
 putrefaction ; and it is certain that land will be productive
 if covered with such mould to the depth of a furrow. But
 this pure mould possesses chemical and mechanical proper
 ties, in consequence of which, supposing them to exist in
 the mass, it cannot in many places be either of long dura
 tion or useful.         It is of a very tender texture, and therefore
 imbibes a great deal of water ; it however as readily suffers
 it to escape again, and with a moderate degree of drought
  falls into dust, which is liable to be dispersed by the wind ;
  the water can extract from it the nourishing parts, and
  where there is the least declivity sweep it awav : its volume
  in regard to the organic bodies from which it is formed in
  very small, and a considerable quantity of organic bodies
  are necessary to constitute a moderate sized mass of such
  earth.
      But as the surface of our earth is full of inequalities from
  which it cannot be freed, and as the putrefying organic
  matter which can be found is not sufficient to supply the
  place of that washed away by one shower of rain f, or by
  an inundation, it will be attended with advantage to mix
  other kinds of earth with the r.iould ; and experience shows
   that it is only when organic bodies are in a state of putre-
      • The oak and beech produce the same kind of vegetable earth when
   their interior parts have been dissolved by putrefaction.
      t  A great deal of wet weather in spring and harvest, say the farmers,
   drowns the fields, that is to say, washes away and carries oft the light
   soiublc carbonic matter of the soil,
                                                                   faction,

 7S                           On the Influence     of Ihe
   faction, ot about to be so, that they are proper for being
  mixed with       it,and the gases disengaged               by
                                                        the putrefaction*
  rendered useful as nourishment for plants                as experience
                                                                 ;
  shows that few plants thrive when situated on an accumu
  lation of organic bodies in state of full putrefaction.
                                          a
      Besides the increased volume, and the advantages con
  nected with         mould mixed with the bottom earth oppose*
                    it,
  a greater resistance to wind and water, and thereby secures1
  to the fanner the fruit of the exertion and industry he must
  employ to reduce organic bodies to             state of putrefaction.
                                                   a
      The bottom earth, with which in agriculture organic mat
  ters are mixed, does not consist of one kind, but               always   is
  mixed with decomposed rocks, as in common                     nothing
                                                                     it   is
  else, most of which contains silex, argil, lime, and mag
  nesia.
      Each of these kinds of earth possesses chemical and me
  chanical properties which often exercise              contrary action
                                                                a
 on each other, which does not produce the most beneficial
 effect on the growth of plants, and therefore                may be of
                                                                     it
 use to the agriculturist to know with what pure earths his
 bottom earth       is mixed.
     It would be extending the present essay to too great                             a
 length to give         circumstantial description of the process-,
                          a
 employed      by  several eminent chemists to decompose vege
 table earth   I
               ;     shall therefore com fine myself to an account
 of the component parts of bottom earth, together with its
 properties and action, in such                 manner that we may
 thence be enabled to explain from              it a
                                               the views of the farmer
 in the different operations he employs.
     Among the number of the component parts of bottom
 earth, are:
      1st, Siliceous Earth. —        appears in general partly in
                                      It                                            a
compact form, as in sand and large fragments of quartz,
 partly in a    fine light form,        which
                                           in          more intimately
                                                       it   is
mixed with the other kinds of earth not visible to the eye,
 and can be separated only            the help of chemistry.
                                          by                        does       It
not every where occur in the same proportion                       many
                                                                      :    in
districts it    forms, like sand, nearly the whole of the bottom
earth, and in others            itscarcely perceptible.
                                     is                      Acids, the
fluor acid excepted, have no action on                 wiih alkalies, in
                                                        it  :
different proportions,          forms glass, or the so-called oil of
                                it
flints, in which union               itsoluble in water; and in this
                                          is
state,    when it   exists,  can  be   taken up very well        plants;  by
in which, however,            forms
                              it      only  an  accidental component
part.
     The mechanical action of this kind of earth,              which  by            it
                                                                          moderates

              Component    Parts of the Soil      on Vegetation.            79
moderates the binding action           of clay and loam,       is   of more
importance to agriculture.
   2d, Argillaceous Earth. — It is equally abundant                  as   sili
ceous earth, and covers almost alone many districts in the
form of loam.    It always exercises a binding property, in
 consequence of which it turns hard in heat, and forma
 a solid body, the volume of which becomes smaller, from
which circumstance the cracking or rending of clayey fields
 during dry weather may be explained.             Water penetrates
 into it only slowly ; and the slower, the drier it was before :
hut on the other hand, the water evaporates from it again
 as slowly.
    It is scarcely ever found without sulphuric acid, which
 can be entirely separated from it only by chemical processes,
 though the water which stands over it can lixiviate a part
of it. When in union with sulphuric acid, large fragments
 of it fall to pieces or effloresce under the action of the atmo
 spheric air.
    The binding quality of this kind of earth exercises a pre
judicial action in agriculture, as it prevents the roots from
penetrating into it; and increases and renders more difficult
the operation of tillage.
    The solution of black mould , when covered by it in such a
manner that the atmospheric air can have no action on                         it,
 proceeds very slowly, because atmospheric air, as             well  is
 known, promotes and accelerates putrefaction.
    3rd, Calcareous Earth. — This earth possesses the pecu
 liar property of having       nearer affinity for acids than argil
                               a
 laceous earth or magnesia, and the sulphuric acid prefers                    it
 to alkalies we may therefore witJi propriety assign to cal
                  :
 careous earth the property of neutralizing acids. Sulphuric
 acid and calcareous earth produce gypsum, one part of
 which        soluble in 470 parts of water. Nitric acid and
             is
 calcareous earth form an earthy neutral salt, which assumes
 with difficulty the crystalline form, but which in the solar
 heat can be decomposed into its component, parts.              ap   It
 pears that calcareous earth, in certain situations* and pro
 portions, acquires the property of uniting the principle of
 atmospheric air with nitric acid.
                                                                     Diluted
  * Some months after this was written    was mentioned
                                             it                 in
                                                          the Che
mical Journal, No. 6.   700-701, " that Mr. Humboldt had discovered
                          p.
that calcareous earth attracts oxygen  ;"
                                        the secret     in what manner salt
petre   formod was then discovered.
        is                            Atmospheric       air then contains :
                   Oxygen         -       -           ai
                      Azote        -     -            77
                      Carbonic acid          •        1
                                                                          Ani

 80                          On the Influence   of the
     Diluted nitric acid, as it is highly probable that it is de
  composed in the organs of plants as in animal bodies, is
   not only not pernicious, but advantageous *.
     The union of muriatic acid and of lime seems to be of
  the same nature. Carbonic acid with pure calcareous earth*
  forms common lime, which appears in nature as limestone
  or as chalk. It is highly probable, and may be explained
  from the laws of the affinity of the nitfous and carbonic
   acid for calcareous earth, that they unite alternately with
  the latter — the carbonic acid in the night, and the nitrous
  acid in the day.
     This holds good only in the warm days of summer : in
  the autumn and spring the nitrous acid which is formed
  drives off the carbonic acid, as experience shows in salpetre
  manufactories.      The phosphoric acid forms with it phos-
  phorized   calcareous  earth.
     Burnt hme exercises on animal substances a corrosive
  quality almost in the same manner as caustic alkali, from
  which the effect of lime to hasten the begun putrefaction of
  organized matters in a certain state of moisture may be
  explained. - Hence it is evident that lime always contributes
  chemically to the nourishment of plants when it is not
  an essential component part of them.         And on the other
  hand, that too long manuring with lime not mixed with
  other kinds of manure, as attentive farmers have long
  known from observation, destroys the good black mould,
  and so far exhausts the soil : and hence the the proverb —
  " that it makes the children poor."
     Lime can be employed indefinitely only in clayey soil,
. combined with sulphuric acid, sand, and phosphoric acid,
  and also where there is a superabundance of black mould.
     Turf or peat land, therefore, maybe brought to a state of
  fertility by draining from it the water, and mixing with the
  turf the requisite quantity of lime.
     I may mention, as a mechanical property of lime, that
  it contributes to render clayey land tender, especially when
  strewed over       like marl, in combination with sand.
                     it,
     4th, Magnesia. —This earth        very often
                                          is        component
                                                           a
   And   saltpetre   :
                           Azote    -      -        0-64
                           Oxvgcn   -      -        0-36
   Govigh,  in  hit Experiments on the Vegetation of Seeds, mentioned, be
fore Mr. Humboldt, that wet mud possesses         in   very high degree the
                                                       a
property of attracting oxygen.
   • Four ounces of
                       saltpetre dissolved in 48 pounds of water and poured
on the roots of carnations, secures them against the rot, and has  a  bene
ficial influence on the colour of the flowers.
                                                                       part

               component      Parts of    the Soil on Vegetation,         81
part of the bottom earth, especially in districts where the
fatter arises from cneuss or micaceous schistus.       Having a
greater affinity for the sulphuric acid, it can effect a neutra
lization of this acid, as it unites with it to produce sul
phate of magnesia.        In this form, when dissolved in water,
itcan be conveyed       into vegetables, from which we can ex
plain the existence    of magnesia in the residuum of the de
 composition of plants, without admitting it as an essential
 component part of vegetables.
    5th, Iron is found also in some kinds of soil, but never
 in a metallic form : it is always in the oxidated state in
 which it is dispersed almost over the whole surface of the
 earth ; with the free sulphuric acid it forms vitriol of iron,
which exercises a corrosive action on the roots of plants,
 and makes them smutty.         When dissolved in water in the
state of carbonic acid, it perhaps may be capable of pass
ing into vegetables, which explains its being found in them.
    6th, Free sulphuric acid lixiviated by water from clay
occurs here and there : its property of charring the roots of
plants is the most probable cause of the production of strata
of turf; for the basis of these is always clay and stagnant
water, by which the sulphuric acid is lixiviated. The growth
of turf may therefore be promoted by not suffering the
water to drain oft" from a dug stratum of it.
    Ingenhous recommended manuring with sulphuric acid ;
and it is evident that it may be of use in calcareous        soil,
and in the neighbourhood of great cities where the fields
are rich in black mould, as the carbonic acid is driven off
by    it,
        rendered free, and nourishment thus conveyed to the
vegetables     but this method
               :                      too expensive to be gene
                                          is
rally employed.
    7th, Phosphoric acid. The existence of this acid in ani
mal matters was known           but   :  now known that
                                           it   is            oc    it
curs also in the mineral kingdom, as we are acquainted
with combination of           with iron, to which the cold short
                                  is it
          a
property    of the latter     ascribed.        doubtful whether
                                                     It   is
Jt has any useful influence on vegetation. From what
matters        formed in marshy meadows
              it   is                           not known is  but   ;
it    believed that
     is                     the cause of the sourness of fodder
                              is is
                         it
in places were there        no argillaceous earth.
   From the future progress' of chemical research there                   is
reason to expect that more effectual means will be discovered
of bringing matters back to their original component parts.
Phosphorus, sulphur, &c. were for            time considered as
                                                     a
sub^lanccs or principles, merely because           was impossible
                                                               it
to decompose them, though there arc phenomena which
     Vol. XVIII.        No.    69.             F                        give

f?2  Influence of "the component Parts     of the Soil on Vegetation.
give reason to suspect that they must be considered as com
pounds.
     8tli, Water is the most general component part of soil, and
indeed, as a medium of solution, it keeps the nourishment
of plants in a fluid state, and promotes its circulation ; it is
decomposed in them into its principles hydrogen and oxygen,
and must therefore serve also as nourishment ; for the
oxygen is expired, and the hydrogen unites itself with the
solid parts. But however necessary water may be to vege
tation, a superabundance of it has a prejudicial influence on
 plants, as it softens their fibres, so that the oxygen can easily
            a destructive putrefaction ; because        they have no
 !iroduce
   onger   sufficient elasticity to expire  it.   Hence   the destruc
 tion of the crop by water in level fields, where marsh-plants
 grow up in the room of the corn.
     Water lixiviates black mould in some cases, carries off the
 extractible parts, and renders the groimd poor. The in
 fluence of water on the sulphuric acid of clayey soil has
 been already mentioned ; and it needs here be only re
 marked, that it unites more intimately the particles of the
 clay to the prejudice of the plants, and contributes to fonn a
 solid mass, into which neither the roots nor the air can pe
 netrate.
     These are the most usual component parts of soil, and
 though there are other kinds of earth, thev have no influ
 ence on vegetation, and therefore they may be omitted.               It
  is also needless to mention here that the mixture of the
 above-mentioned component parts of black mould are not
 general : on the contrarv, that thev are mixed according to
  infinite variations and gradations, and that the sum of the
  component parts is often not the same in twq fields lving
  close to each other.       For these variations and gradations
  are already so well known that, in the language of the agri
  culturists, they give occasion to different, often relative,
  and therefore insufficient appellations.         When they speak
  of sandy, loamy, sharp, hot, heavy, cold, wet, and the
  like kinds of soil, one- may readily conceive from the words
  what different mixtures are to be understood under the
  terms sandy, loamy, or wet and heavy soil ; when, at the
  «ame time, the expressions sharp, hot, cold, denote the
   same mixtures of soil in different districts.           And even if
   we suppose that a certain fixed idea could be applied to
   each of these terms, it would be of little service to the
   practical agriculturist who looks to the improvement of his
   land. For an appellation, to be proper, ought to express the
   sum of the component parts, that it may be seen whether
                                                                    the

                       Engraving       on Steatites                 83
 the eoil requires improvement, and in what it consists. For
 it is only when the mixture of the soil is well known that
the farmer can divide his labour into that which relates to
the improvement, and that which relates to the preparation
of the soil.
XI.      On the Use    of Steatites in    the  Art of Engraving     on
                                Stones*.
  J. he engraver On stones is in regard to the sculptor what
the enameller is to the painter. He labours on a small
scale and with difficulty ; but his work, when well finished,
is delicate and durable.         In consequence of the particular
value attached to engraved stones, it has often been wished
that some matter easy to be worked, and at the. same time
uniting beauty to swlidity> might be discovered. Glass,
          and that of Wedgewood, are exceedingly valuable;
Easte,
   ut the impressions formed on them have not the accuracy
of the original, and some part of the genius of the artist
is lost.
    A trial has lately been made for this purpose of steatites,
which has perfectly succeceded, and at present M. Vilcot,
an artist of Louvame, has executed several cameos on this
substance. The works of this engraver are well conceived,
delicately designed, and beautifully finished. These cameos,
which arc two or three inches in diameter, are hardened in
the fire, coloured and polished.          They have then the hard
ness of flint, the brilliancy of agate, and in colour several
of them resemble onyx.
     In consequence of its softness this matter can be cut and
 turned with great facility, and being; composed of- exceed
ingly fine parts, the greatest accuracy may be observed in
the operation.
    This stone is worked in its natural state.        It is then put
into a crucible covered with a tile, and the tile being luted
with clay, the whole, surrounded with charcoal, is put into
 a furnace.    It is exposed to a slow fire, and kept at a white
 heat for two or three hours : it is then taken from the fire
 and suffered to cool gradually.         The stone by these means
 becomes very hard; it strikes fire with steel and wears the
best files.
     The white   pieces  of  steatites in consequence of the heat
  become    of a  milky   white    colour : other pieces assume a
 gray   or ochry  colour.
                     *
                        Journal d"< Batimrns C'rjili.
                                  F  2                      Steatites,

  •4                    Engraving  on Steatites.
       Steatites, when exposed to heat, may be coloured by so
   lutions in oils, in alcohol, in acids, and in alkalies.
       Colours which dissolve in amber varnish, such at verdi
   gris, ochre, &c, communicate their tints to baked stea
   tites :' for this purpose it must be heated on a charcoal fire.
   Colours dissolved in turpentine give a brighter tint.
       Solutions in spirit of wine, of carthamus, gamboge, log
   wood, dragon's blood, Sec, communicate their tints to
   steatites when left immersed in them for some hours.
       A solution of gold in nitro-muriatic acid gives to heated
   steatites a light or a dark purple colour, according to the
  strength of the solution.      Muriate of silver by the help of
  sulphuric acid gives a black colour.        Indigo dissolved in
  the same acid gives to this stone a blueish gray colour.      If
  steatites, coloured by a solution of gold, or by muriate of
  silver, be exposed to a strong heat, it acquires a kind of
  metallic splendor like that of gold or of silver.
      When the stone is heated, coloured acid solutions may
  be applied, so as to produce great brightness and neatness :
  on this account a particular colour may be given to the
  ground of the cameo. Sulphuric acid is more efficacious
  than the muriatic or nitric acids.     The oxalic acid may be
 employed ; also coloured alkaline solutions, and particu
 larly that of indigo, may likewise be used : most of the
 colours sink the eighth of a line into the stone.
      When steatites has been baked it is polished with emery
 and common polishing stones, and also with tin and tri-
 poli : it assumes then a brilliant splendour, and resembles
 agate, jasper, chalcedony, &c.
      This stone, on account of its softness, is exceedingly
 proper for the purposes of the engraver : by using it he can
 perform as much work in a day as he could in a week by
 employing harder stones : he may then by means of brat
 give hie work a great degree of hardness, and render it
 durable.
     Experience shows that the hardness of gems, brilliancy,
 and    the agreeable colours of agate, may be given to the
 soft and opake steatites, known under the name of lard
stone or Spanish chalk.
     The artist, who by engraving on gems, immortalizes the
image of a great man, or the remembrance of a remarkable
event, devotes his talents and his genius to a noble branch
of the fine arts. Cameos and intaglios, therefore, are in
teresting monuments of the Egyptian, Carthaginian, Gre
cian and" Roman histories.       They were objects of study and
                                                         amuse-

                     Notices respecting New Books.          85
amurcment to a Winkelman, a Barthelemy, an Ekel and
a Neuman, and are so to the friends and patrons of the fine
arts.  It is thus that the reputation of Pyroeoteles, Cesari,
Coldore, Natter, Pikler, Doell, and other celebrated artists,
has been made known and maintained.
   The industry and gemius of the artist give to cut stones
their highest value ; but something depends also on the
matter and on its preparation.
                XII.   Notices respecting New Books.
The Progress of Maritime Discovery, from the earliest Pe
  riod to the close of the Eighteenth Century, forming an
  extensive System        of'
                        Hydrography.   By .Tames Stanier
  Clarke, F.R.S. domestic Chaplain to The Prince, and
  Vicar      Preston. Ato. Volume the First.
            of                                (Pages about
  1000.)    Cadell   and Davies,
W    k must acknowledge that we opened this volume with
considerable prejudice against           it,
                                      from having previously
read an article which appeared in the last number of the
Edinburgh Review.       Having, however, found our preju
dices gradually removed, as we advanced in our perusal of
the work, we feel ourselves called upon to declare that we
entertain   a different opinion from the conductors of that
Review, and consider it as      valuable body of information
                                 a
on  a useful and entertaining subject.
   The laborious and extensive digest of maritime discove
ries which Mr. Clarke has formed, will prove of essential
advantage to the historian, the merchant, and the circum
navigator.    The Jirst will lind the errors of preceding
writers candidly and respectfully stated.    The author shows
that Lafitau's Dccouvertes des Portugais, which hitherto
has been the principal work to which general readers have
resorted for information,        very flimsy and incorrect ac
                                is   a
count and that Dr. Robertson, in following its authority,
        ;
was led into    considerable error,
                 a                         by
                                        betraying an ignorance
of the first navigator who doubled the Cape of Good Hope,
(chap. 2. p. 343.)     Herrera also seems to have erred con
siderably in this respect.    The historian will also feel in
debted to Mr. Clarke for an excellent Catalogue RaisonnSe
of his authorities, in which are many anecdotes of Ramu&io
and other writers not generally known       and h.su for
                                                ;       a very
valuable list of the principal Portuguese hijto.laas, in the
                                F    3                 dicing

B6               Notices respecting New Books.
drawing up of which he displays much industry, and a very
cKtensivu knowledge of bibliography.         The hitherto cele
brated Hisloire Generate des Voyages, is now found to have
been a literal translation, as far as the seventh volume, and
part of the eighth, from a general collection of voyages and
travels, in' four thick, quartos, printed in London, for a
bookseller of the name of Astlcy, and compiled by Mr.
John Green. The merchant will peruse this volume with
interest from the information it necessarily affords relative to
maritime commerce.        Instead of the trite and confused ac
count of the Phoenicians, whom preceding writers have
considered as the first promoters of commerce, Mr. Clarke
refers his readers to maritime traders of much higher anti-
quitv ; and after favouring the in with an abstract of Mr.
Bryant's sentiments respecting the Noachida?, the Amo-
nians (a name which comprehended all nations known as
inhabitants of Egypt, of Phoenicia, or Canaan) the Cuthites,
the Anakim, the Titans, the Scythoe, and the Atlantians ;
he clearly traces the progress of maritime nations from the
 Indian Ocean to the shore of the Red Sea, where the
Edomitcs, the ancestors of the Phoenicians, formed their
 first settlement at Mount Seir.        (Sect. 2. p. 67.)    Mr.
 Clarke then enters on the maritime history of the Hebrews,
 in which the country of Ophir is considered, and the term
 Tarshish ; the former he is inclined to think, with Bochart,
 was Ceylon, and that by Tarshish was meant the Sea, in
 its most extensive signification. (Sect. 2. p. 84.)    He then
 concludes his account of the sacred periods of maritime
 history with a refutation of the Phoenician Periplus of
 Africa. The maritime discoveries of the Creeks are de
 tailed with considerable interest from a variety of learned
 writers, whose rare and expensive volumes can onlv be pro
 cured at a considerable    expense and difficulty.    Costard's
 excellent, but long neglected History of Astronomy, is
justly appreciated by Mr. Clarke ; and the Athenian com
 merce on the Euxine,        is given from his grandfather's
 learned work, the connexion of the Roman, Saxon, and
 English coins. At the same time, however, 'that our au
 thor thus collects and combines the opinions «f different
 writers, which we must acknowledge u done in a fair and
 candid manner, he occasionally favours and relieves the rea
 der v ith such original remarks as the nature of the digest he
 had in view would admit. The naval character of the Greeks
 is thus described :— i( The professional character of Grecian
 seamen was influenced by the manners of the different states
 to which they belonged ; and it therefore fluctuated on an
             4                                         extensive

                   Notices respecting New Books.             87
extensive    scale, from the cold or forbidding policy of the
Lacedasmonians to the capricious yet captivating disposi
tion of the Athenians.         The first was too haughty and
austere to gain the hearts of those who served ; the other of
too unequal a temper to secure or reward the enterprising
spirit of those who commanded. Even among the Atheni
ans, the naval character had not sufficiently emerged from
 the warehouse of their merchants j and at Lacedsemon,
where the highest object of ambition was a command in the
cavalry, that valuable nursery for seamen which the ho
nourable avocations- of commerce furnish was purposely
neglected.     The iron coinage of Sparta shackled the specu- _
lation of its inhabitants; and when Lycurgus prohibited
navigation and commerce throughout an extent of coast
that furnished so many excellent harbours, he proved how
impossible it was for a rigid moralist to entertain a due con
viction of those liberal principles which are essential to the
 character of a legislator." (Sect, iii.p. 123.)   The fourth
 section brings into one point of view all that has survived
respecting Carthaginian and Roman maritime discoveries ;
the voyages of Hanno, of Ilimilco, of I'olybius, of'Serto-
rius, of Juba, of the freedman of Annius Plocamus, and
the Periplus of the eastern coast of Africa, are introduced
with considerable judgment, and well connected with each
other. The whole of this introductory part is closed by a
dissertation on the commerce of the Romans bv the author's
learned grandfather, which hitherto has not been generally
known.
    Mr. Clarke then enters on the principal subject of the
volume ; and in his first chapter gives a general view of the
maritime history of Europe and of Portugal, to the begin
ning of the fifteenth century, when the Portuguese-disco-
veries first began. The second chapter continues the history
from the accession of John, the first king of Portugal, to
the discovery and doubling of the Cape ot Good Hope by
Bartholomew Diaz ; and the third chapter closes with the
arrival of Da Gama on the coast of Calicut, on the 20th of
May 1498. The valuable appendix that follows, contains
some scarce treatises connected with the. subject of the
work, among which a history of navigation, by the cele
brated Locke, particularly attracted our attention.
    We shall now only proceed to notice some of the many
                 facts which are dispersed throughout the vo-
f>hilosophical
  ume,   which    is enriched with numerous engravings of the
coast that comes under consideration ; and with an excellent
set  of charts by    Arrowsmith.
                               F  4                        One

88                    Kotices respecting      Kew Books.
   One essential merit in this work             is,
                                               the liberal and exten
sive manner in which       the  opinions    of  preceding writers are
detailed;   and   the  impartiality   which     Mr. Clarke observes
in leaving the reader to form his own opinion from the facts
that arc adduced.        We perceive no attachment to system,
or preconceived       opinions      no invidious aspersion even
                                     ;
when considerable errors arc detected            no wish to steal the
                                                   ;
thoughts of other writers and disguise them under                  new    a
form of expression.       The mariner's compass, from the evi
dence which Mr. Clarke adduces, was certainly first known
and used in the Indian ocean, whence                  was introduced
                                                           it
into Europe as       new discovery.
                      a                       It   is
                                                assigned             by
                                                             professor
Assemani, of Padua, to the Arabians, (Introduction, p. 9,
note ;)  and Mr. Clarke has brought strong proof to show
that the flower which marks the North, and which has er
roneously been called the Jieur de lis, was in reality the In
dian lotus. Dr. Hyde,            his treatise De Heligione Veterum
                                in
Prrsantm,     affirms   that  the   Chaldeans and Arabians had
immemorially      made   use  of  the compass to guide them over
the vast deserts that overspread their respective countries                     ;
and according to the Chinese records, as cited              Mr. Mau by
rice, the emperor Chingvang. above                thousand years be
                                                      a
fore Christ, presented tiie ambassadors of the king of Co
chin-China with species of magnetic index which they
                           a
called cli'man;      name
                      a         by
                                 which thev at this day denomi
nate the mariner's compass. {Progress                Maritime Disco
                                                          of
ver:/, sect.     p. 7.)
                 i.        The earliest allusion to the directive
powgr of the magnet occurs              the Life of Pythogaras
                                         in                                    by
Jamhlichus,      who asserts that " Pythagoras took from
Abaris, the Hyperborean, his golden dart, without which
it was impossible for him to find his road." (Ibid. p. 51.)
Mr. Clarke thinks that the loadstone, though not used in
navigation, was brought          Solomon's navigators from India
                                 by
to Europe; and          support of this cites, on the authoritv
                           in
bf Mr. Henley,         passage from the 10th chapter of the first
                        a
book of Kings, (ch. iii.          397-) "The magnet was men
                                 p.
tioned      the most antient classical writers under the name
           by
of Lapis Heraclius, in allusion to Hercules, who was said
to have sailed         golden cup, given him
                      in   a                           Apollo, to the
                                                               by
coasts of Spain, where he set up the pillars that bear his
name  ;  or perhaps rather from Heraclta,              city of Lydia,
                                                               a
where      was discovered.
          it                    Our author's learned relation, Dr.
Wotton, was of opinion that the magnet was known and
admired         by
               the anticnts, but was never employed for the
purposes of navigation. (Ibid, pages 177 and 178.)              These
aie certainly very curious facts, which have hitherto beon
                                                                              toc^

                  Notices respecting   New Books.                89
too much neglected       ; and  Mr. Clarke    deserves our thanks
for having presented them to the attention of scientific men.
He reserves for a future volume a more particular discus
 sion of this important discovery, which, we doubt not,
 will, after these remarks of his, be assigned to the Arab
navigators on the Indian ocean.          In the excellent narrative
which he has given of Da Gama's voyage, Mr. Clarke sub
joins another proof of the justice of his ideas from a passage
 m Osorius, the whole of which had inadvertently been
 omitted in Mr. Gibbs's translation.           This early Arab or
 Moorish compass was found by Gama on his arrival to
 have been long used by the Indian seamen ; and Osorius
 thus introduces his description of it : — Utebantur in navi-
gando Normis navicularis, quas nautce acus appellant. Qua-
 rum J'ormam, propter eos qui a maritimis regkmibus remoti
 sunt, liaud alienum arbitror explicare      ....    The same his
 torian also mentions their early use of the quadrant long
 before it was known in Europe : — Quadrantilnis etiam, solis
 yarias conversionei, et quantum quceqne regio ab cequinoc-
 tiali circulo dislaret, observabat.       (Progress of Maritime
 Discovery,    ch. iii. note i. p. 451.)
     Previous to Da Gama's voyage, Mr. Clarke, very pro
 perly, in order to impress the mind of his readers with a
 just idea of the perils which Gama had to surmount, gives
  some concise hydrographical remarks on that navigation ;
  and as his work is intended to form (the first time that any
 one has made the attempt)          an extensive system of hy
 drography, he offers the following            simple divisions of
 the ocean to the attention of nautical men: — 1. The
 North Atlantic, extending from the equator to Cape
 Farewell on the coast of Greenland in 60° north lati
  tude. 2. South Atlantic, from the equator to an imagi
  nary line drawn from the Cape of Good Hope to Cape
  Horn. 3. Indian ocean, bounded to the south by a line
  carried from the Cape of Good Hope to the south-west
  point of New Holland. 4. The North Pacific, flowing
  from the equator to an imaginary line stretched from the
  south-eastern point of Van Dctnan's Land to the southern
  Cape of New Zealand, and continued thence to Cape Horn.
  The remaining portions of the ocean flowing round the
  northern and southern poles, to be called the North and
  South Polar Seas. (Ibid. ch. ii. p. 354.) Among those hy
  drographical remarks we observe a great many latitudes and
  longitudes on the western coast of Africa, now first pub
  lished, which w-ere ascertained from lunar observations by
  an. officer of rank in the king's service.     The nature and li
                                                               mits

  90                          Galvanism.
 units  of our journal will not allow us to mark the variety of
 curious philosophical information which abounds in this
 useful publication, and shall content ourselves with citing
 the following curious fact from the author's correspond
 ence. (Appendix, p. 260.)          Gama's squadron continued
 during a whole monsoon at anchor on the coast of Ma
 labar; yet when the English obtained possessions on that
 coast, a vessel fitted out in India, with the best of ground
 tackling, and everv precaution taken that was possible, was
 a/eat to the same place on the approach of the monsoons ;
but, notwithstanding the superior skill of our seamen, the
 attempt was found impracticable, and the vessel was driven
 ashore.
 Elements of Science and Art : being a familiar Introduc
    tion to Natural Philosophy and Chemistry ; together with
    their Application to a Variety of elegant and useful Arts.
    By John Imison.          A new  Edition,   2 Vols. 8vo.
    The present work, though, modestly enough, called a
new edition of Imison, is intitled to hold a much higher
rank.      It is in a great measure a new performance, and
contains much useful and entertaining matter on a great
variety of subjects : — viz. mechanics, pneumatics, hydro
statics, hydraulics, optics, electricity, galvanism, magne
tism, astronomy, chemistry, drawing, oleaching, dyeing,
metallurgy, varnishing, japanning,           lacquering, gilding,
silvering, tinning, soldering, moulding, and casting; ce
ments, ink-making, staining of wood", &c, 8cc, &c. —
To those who have not time or opportunity to enter deeply
into subjects of the kind embraced by this work, and who
yet may wish to obtain information on such matters, it will
prove a valuable acquisition ; as it contains a great deal in
a moderate compass, and detailed at the same time with
considerable perspicuity and precision.        The plates, thirty-
two in number, are by Lowry, and executed in a masterlv
manner.
        XIII.    Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                             GALVANISM.
 JL HE following is a correct and more, particular account
than any that has yet appeared of the galvanic experiments,
made by Mr. Carpuc on the body of Michael Carney: from
notes taken by an eminent physician who was present.
    The subject of these experiments was thirty-seven years
                                                                of

                           Galvanism,                        g\
ef   age ; and the body, after hanging the usual time, was
conveyed to the experiment-room an hour later than Forster z
it arrived at ten minutes past nine.
     1st, Oxygen gas was introduced through the trachea at
a quarter past nine.
     2d, A  conductor from a galvanic apparatus, consisting of
about a hundred square plates of zinc and copper, about
four inches diameter, disposed in three troughs, and which
produced visible sparks, being applied to a piece of tinfoil,
introduced So as to come into contact with the great inter
costal, the par vagum, and phrenic nerves, the other end of
the apparatus being connected with the rectum, for ten mi
nutes, a little motion was produced in the lips and the sternal
muscles.
     3d, Common air being forced from several bladders into
the trachea, so as to inflate the thorax, friction being, at the
same time, applied, together with the galvanism as before,
 the face became very black.      The apparatus operated in a
 very powerful manner.      At twenty-nve minutes after nine,
the blackness of the face disappeared : the air contained in
 six bladders was forced into the lungs, by wrhich the body
 was considerably inflated.
     4th, At twenty minutes before ten, cloths heated by hot
 water were applied to the thorax ; the galvanism and infla
 tion with common air were continued, and again produced
 blackness in the face.
     5th, Five minutes before ten, inflating with a pair of bel
 lows, galvanising, and the application of hot cloths, were
 continued.
     6th, At ten o'clock, a vein was opened in the arm, from
 which black blood flowed on pressure, as in the state of
 life ; no blood in the temporal artery.
     7th, Conductors were applied to the schneiderian artery;
 increased contractions of the lips and muscles of the face
  took place.    During these operations it was observed that
 the veins of the arms were distended.
     Ten minutes after ten, conductors being applied to the
 pericardium and the diaphragm, the action of the pectoral
  muscles was excited.
     8th, When applied to the denuded pectoral muscles,
  strong action was excited.
      9th, The lungs were proved to be in a sound state by in
  flating them with a pair of bellows.     The neck had been
  much injured by pulling and twisting the body round while
                                             •
  hanging.
                                                       10th,  At

  92                   Experiment   on a Toad.
     10th, At twenty minutes past ten, the left auricle, and
 more so the right, were excited to action, but not the heart :
 they continued to act for some time on withdrawing tha
 stimulus; but the action was much increased by applying it
 from time to time.
     11th, One conductor being applied to the sinclavian
 membrane, and the other to the anus, the action of the au
 ricles was much increased, and motion was, at the same
 time, produced in the face.
    At forty minutes past ten, action was excited in both
 auricles, but particularly the right.
     1 2th, A large quantity of black blood in the carotid arterv.
     1 3th, The body was colder than in the case of Forster ; but
 some deception may perhaps have arisen from the air being
 much warmer.
    The temperature of the external air was about 58°, and
 that of the room 62°.
                    EXPERIMENT     ON A TOAD.
    On the 5th of November 1802, Mr. John Walker, of
Basscnthwaite Chapel, in the county of Cumberland, put a
toad into a bason, which he covered with a slate, and then
deposited it about a foot beneath the surface of the earth.
On the 8th of January 1 804, the bason was carefully dug up,
when its inhabitant was found alive, but reduced in size by
its confinement.       After the curiosity of the spectators was
gratified,   the  toad  was again committed to the earth for a
further experiment.     —  Cumberland Packet,
     DEGREE OF THE        MERIDIAN    MEASURED IN INDIA.
    It is with pleasure we have to inform our readers of the
rapid progress geography is making in the East Indies. BrU
gade major Lambton, who is employed by the presidency of
Madras to survey the Mysore country, has already measured
anarch on the meridian, 1°34' 56" 43, which gives the de
gree in lat. 12° 3'/, equal 60, 494 fathoms; and we have every
reason to believe the above measurement correct, knowing
that major Lambton has been furnished with a six feet zenith,
sector, and measuring chains," by the late Mr. Ramsdcn,
and also a three-feet theodolite, by Mr. Cary, similar to that
now used by major Mudge in the trigonometrical survey of
England.
                                                        TRAVELS

               Travels. — Cow-pockk  — Mineralogy.              93 .
                            TRAVELS, &C.
    A letter from Petersburgh, dated        October 27th    1803,
 states that Mr. Benjamin Bergman,          after a residence   of
 three years among the Calmuc Tartars,      has returned to Rii^a,
 where he means to arrange and prepare      for the press the ob
 servations he collected during his interesting travels.    They
 will soOn be published, and will form five volumes.            A
 curious extract from them, on the Calmuc bards, has al
 ready appeared in the Northern Archives ; and we learn by
 another letter, that the draftsman CarrafTe, well known by
 his beautiful views in Egypt and Syria, and his large collec
tion of drawings which relate to the manners and customs
 of these countries, has lately arrived at Petersburgh from
 Paris, in company with two young Frenchmen, for the pur
 pose of making a tour through the Russian empire, where
 he will, no doubt, find abundance of valuable materials to
 form a voyage pitloresque.
    We are likewise informed that his imperial majesty the
emperor of Russia has caused ten thousand copies of a po
 pular treatise on the cow pock, written in the Russian lan
guage by the medico-philanthropic       society, to be printed at
his expense, and to be sent to all the governments for the
 purpose of being distributed gratis among the people, and
particularly in the country.
                            MINERALOGY.
    A   very remarkable piece of amber was found lately in a
field in the Lithuanian circle of East Prussia, about twelve
miles from the shore of the Baltic. It is 13£ inches in length,
and 8-^ inches in breadth.      It contains 318 cubic rhinlandic
inches, and weighs above eighteen pounds.             No person
ever remembers to have heard of so large a piece of this sub
stance being either found on the coast, or dug up in the
country.     1 he largest piece known, which is in the cabinet
at Madrid, weighs only eight pounds.           A dealer in amber
offered three thousand dollais for it.       The king, however,
has ordered it to be deposited in the cabinet of minerals at
Berlin, belonging to the department of mines, and one
thousand dollars \o be paid to the proprietor of the estate
where it was found ; part of which is to be given to the per
son who found it. Amber is the property of the crown, and
is generally sold by auction to the highest bidder.
                   SINGULAR     PETRIFACTIOK.
      quarrier, in   a village near Paris, having detached     by
    »                                                      means

 94                           Meleot'i
means of gunpowder a large block of stone* split it by the
 usual processes, and found in the middle of it the petrified
 skeleton of a ram. The two, sections of the block each
 contain one half of the animal in perfect preservation, with
 all the parts exceedingly distinct.     The block was detached
 from the solid rock, at the depth of thirty feet from the
 summit of the quarry.       This curious petrifaction is to be
 deposited  in the museum of natural history.
                             ifETEOR.
    A  very uncommon meteor was observed at Befoft on the
 22d  of September 1 803, by L. Ordinaire, correspondent of
government for agriculture and meteorology, the account
of which we shall here give in his own words : — At seven"
o'clock in the evening of that dav," says he,           "  I was re
turning   from  the country.     The air  was  slightly agitated by
a gentle wind at east-north-east, and it was very dark. At
half a league from Befort      I saw the heavens suddenly be
come so bright that the country seemed as if illuminated by
a thousand lamps.      I  immediately perceived a globe of fire
which issued from a cloud : it passed over our heads and
rushed into another cloud.         The globe was of a reddish
yellow colour, and exceedingly brilliant.          It seemed to be
about six or eight feet in diameter.       It left behind it some
faint traces of light, like those produced in general by com
mon sky-rockets.
    "  We saw this globe for one minute at least. The horses
were so terrified by it that they set out on a full gallop.
The coachman himself was frightened, and two ladies were
taken ill. When the globe rushed into the other cloud it
seemed to revolve, describing a semicircle.          I lost sight of
it near a wood, at a little distance, where I suppose it ex
ploded, for we heard a hollow noise like that of a cannon
discharged at a great distance. This explosion was attended
with no bad consequences, for we heard of no damage done
by it either next day or the days following.
    This meteor was seen at Befort and at the neighbouring
villages. The explosion was felt in that town.             At first it
was supposed to be an earthquake.          The glass in the win
dows was shaken, and the houses experienced a kind of
shock which excited great alarm. The globe proceeded in
a direction from north-east to south-west.          On my return
to Befort I examined my barometer, which stood at 27 in
ches 4 lines, and my thermometer was at 10^ degrees above
freezing.
                                                         METEORO-

                                                  Meteorology.                                   95
                                                 METEOROLOGY.
  Some of our philosophical friends having    expressed a
desire to see in our work a regular monthly register of the
state of the barometer and thermometer, we are happy to
have it in our power to gratify them.   Mr. Carey,' of the
Strand, well known as a mathematical instrument maker
and optician of eminence in his profession, has kindly un
dertaken to furnish us with it every month.    Our readers
may therefore depend on its accuracy.
                              Thermometer.
                           o'clock,
                                                          1i     Height of
                                      Morning.
   Days of the                                                   the tfarom.          Weather.
                                                  Noon.
     Month.
                                                          (JM
                                                          bZ       Inches.
                         8
 1803.    Dec.    27         50°                 51°       4S°    29'50        Rain
                  28        48                   46        46     28-90        Stormy
                  29        46                   48        52     29-40        Stormy
                  30        50                   54        48         •30      Rain
                  31        45                   47       •44         •50      Rain
  1804.    Jan.   l         38                   43        38         •80      Cloudy
                  2         35                   41        32         •90      Fair
                             3*                   35       32      30* OC      Fair
                   4 3       30                   33       30         •13      Cloudy
                   5          30                  35       30      29' 70      Snow
                   (i         29                  33       29         •77      Fair
                   7          28                  33       29         •70      Cloudy
                   b           29                 35       35         •69      Cloudy
                   9           35                 40       38         •71      Rain     «
                  TO           36                 43       37         •95      Fair
                  11           33                 40       45         •85      Foggy
                  12           45                 47       47      29'56       Cloudy
                  13           43                 52       51         •25      Rain
                  14            51                53       52         •40      Cloudy
                  15            53                55       50         •55      Rain
                  16            50                56       50         •50      Showery
                  17            50                54       50         •38      Cloudy
                  18            51                55       49         •69      Rain
                  19            48                50       50         '51      Cloudy
              •
                  20            43                50       44          •22     Fair
                  21            48                52       51          •45     Fair
                  29            50                 51      48          •48     Fair
                  23            46                 50      49          •76     Fair
                  24             49                51      49                  Fair
              .   *              48                52      48          •40     Cloudy
                   2«  i         48                51      46          •25     Fair

96                             Meteorology'.
                       METEOROLOGICAL         TABLE
                           For February     1804.
                       Thermometer.
                                  v   *  Height of
   Days of th e
    Month.          !|
                    P    5
                              C
                              8
                                        the Barom.
                                          Inches.
                                                         Weather.
                     to ^
                                                                       •
                                                                    -
1804.   Jan.    27    46°    50°  46°     29-04    Showery
                28    49     50   48      28-78    Rain
                29    44     51   44      30-24    Fair
                30    46     49   48         •14   Rain
                31    48     53   47      29-66    Rain
        Feb.      1 45       50   45         •51   Fair, rain at night
                  2 44       48   44         •55   Fair, ditto
                  3 43       47   39         •40   Fair
                  4 32       34    32        •55   Fair
                  5 30       42    31        •95   Fair
                  fi 25      31    25     30-08    Fair
                  7 26       34    32        •40   Fair
                  8 28       39    40        •42   Cloudy-
                  9 43       46    48     29*98    Rain
                10 48        49    44        •62   Fair
                 11    44    49    46        •04   Stormy
                 12    41    37    32        •83   Cloudy
                13     30    32    29     30-30    Fair
                 14    28    35    29        •35   Fair
                 15    28    38    35        •35   Snow showers
                 16    35    39    30        •32   Cloudy
                 17    29    35    34        •30   Fair
                18     35    39    35        •29   Fair
                 19    35    42    36        •28   Cloudy
      ¦         20     38    41    39        •35   Showery
                21     38    45    42        •48   Cloudy
           •
                22     41    45    40        •43   Cloudy
                23     38    46    37        •22   Fair
                24     30    44    34     29'82    Cloudy, with hail
                                                      shower at night

                                [   97    ]
XIV.    Experiments made for tlie Purpose of ascertaining
   whether there be a real Acid of Cobalt ; or, in otlter Words,
   whether Cobalt actually unites with Oxygen to the Degree
   necessary  for  Acidification.       By C. F. Bucholz *.
iNo    newly discovered substance has been admitted more
readily, and with less examination into chemical works, than
the supposed cobaltic acid of Brugnatelli, though the expe
riments from which its existence is concluded were very
imperfect and unsatisfactory.          As there are several metallic!
acids, it was natural to conclude, by analogy, from these
experiments, that the existence of the cobaltic acid was real
or possible : but the defective nature of the experiments,
and the importance of the object, ought to have induced
chemists to subject them to a strict proof; for the truth of
any circumstance can be proved only by the coincidence of
repeated experiments made to ascertain it.
   Convinced of the truth of this observation, and of the
incompleteness and inaccuracy of Brugnatelli's experiments,
and of the consequences deduced from them in regard to
the cobaltic acid, I undertook some new ones for the pur
pose of examining them, and thereby ascertaining whether
there really be such a substance as cobaltic acid.            In con
sequence of the well known impurity of zafler or gray oxide
of cobalt, which, besides the so called oxide of cobalt, con
tains arsenical cobalt (perhaps arseniate of cobalt), iron,
nickel, lime, siliceous earth, and other foreign matters, 1
did not think it proper to repeat with it Brugnatelli's expe
riments, as I had been taught by other experiments, which
will be mentioned hereafter, that the phenomena observed
by Brugnatelli in the experiments he made with zafler to
produce cobaltic acid, ought in all probability to be ascribed
to the arsenical acid of the zaffer.          I therefore resolved to
begin my experiments by a direct union of pure cobalt with
the oxygen of oxygenous bodies ; and I had the stronger
hopes of a favourable result, if the cobalt was susceptible of
this transformation, as I knew from the analogy of other
metals susceptible of acquiring the acid state, such as
chrome, scheel, molybdena, and arsenic, that the conver
sion of such metal into acids is exceedingly easy.            One ex
periment however, by M. Fiedler of Cassel, on the fornia-
     * From
             Schcrcr's Allgmieir.es "Journal der Cbemie, No. 51.
   Vol. XVIII. No.       70.            G                         ti°n
     March   1804,

96        Experiments  for ascertaining  the Existence   of  ,
 tion of the cobaltic acid from cobalt and the oxygen of ni
 trous acid, is favourable to the assertion of Brugnatclli ; but
 it is impossible to consider such experiments, results, and
 deductions, so satisfactory and convincing as to render this
 subject unworthy of further research.        For my part, I am
 of opinion that they are not convincing or satisfactory ;
especially as it is not proved in general that arsenic can be
 completely separated from cobalt, according to the method
 ofLampadius, by a current of air, or by Fiedler's applica
 tion of this process.
                           Experiment   I.
     Four ounces of nitric acid of        the  specific gravity of
  1*2S<) were poured over two drams       of  carbonated  oxide of
 cobalt as pure as possible, equal to    one dram of pure oxid«
 of cobalt, and distilled to dryness in a retort. No traces of
 nitrous gas or nitrous acid appeared, from which it could
 be concluded that an oxidation of the cobalt or a deoxida-
 tion of the nitric acid had taken place. The nitric acid
 vhich passed over without any change, was again poured
 into the retort over the cobalt, and distilled to dryness in a
 gentle heat, but with the same result. And the same was
 the case when the process had been repeated four times.
 The nitric acid remained undecom posed, and the residuum
 was nitrate of cobalt, from which the oxide of cobalt could
 be separated as a blue precipitate, both by potash and by
 ammonia.
                          Experiment II.
    But   as it was possible that the precipitate, which had a
 perfect resemblance    to one obtained from a solution of co
balt in muriatic acid, might contain the cobaltic acid, I di- '
gested it with pure ammonia: a little cobalt was dissolved,
But no traces of acid were found in the solution evaporated
 to dryness.
                         Experiment III.
    I now evaporated to drvnpss the fluid from which I had
separated the oxide of cobalt by means of ammonia, and
which, besides nitrate of ammonia, still contained some
redissolved oxide of cobalt.     The saline mass thus obtained
was of a reddish appearance, and had the taste of an ammo-
niacal salt with a little metallic astringency. The half of thi»
¦aline mass being then decomposed Dy heat in a porcelain
dish, the result was a black oxide of cobalt. The other half,
being 3issolvcd in water, exhibited no other phenomena
with the usual reagents than those which gave reason to
suspect some traces of arsenical acid.         Though the result
                                                                of

                      a real Acid       of Cobalt.                99
of these experiments evidently showed that    the oxide of co
balt itself could not be converted into an acid by a very large
quantity of nitrous acid, and repeating the process several
times, I did not consider this experiment as sufficiently de
cisive.   In consequence of this idea I resolved to repeat        it,
changing the process    a little with greater quantity of ma
                                             a
terials.
                        Experiment IV.
    Eight ounces of pure nitric acid, of the specific gravity
of 1-280,  was poured over half an ounce of oxide of cobalt,
purified as much as possible from arsenic and iron, and
distilled from    tubulated retort to dryness
                  a                               which was the
                                                     ;
case in four hours.     During the operation there was no ap
pearance of nitrous acid vapours        the liquor which passed
                                         :
over was nitric acid, perfectly pure.       The latter was again
poured into   a retort, and redistilled under the same circum
stances.    The phenomena during this distillation were ex
actly the same as before. Having repeated the process with
the like result, the saline mass remaining in the retort,
which when heated had garnet red colour, was dissolved
                            a
in distilled water and evaporated to dryness in         porcelain
                                                         a
dish.    It  then weighed six drams.         When dissolved in
four ounces of distilled water, the solution was divided into
two portions, and subjected to the following experiments          :
                         Experiment          V.
   One-half was evaporated to dryness, and the saline m3ss
thus obtained was heated in     aporcelain dish till the greate?
part of the nitric acid was decomposed          so that,
                                                     ;       if
                                                            any
cobaltic acid had been formed,      must have remained with
                                        it
the oxide of cobalt.     The residuum had         black and dis
                                                     a
appearance, and in the pure state weighed 50 grains.        was
                                                             It
digested seme hour3 with pure ammonia, and boiled for             a
quarter of an hour,       bywhich means 30 grains of black
oxide were dissolved, and formed       beautiful ruby red solu
                                             a
tion. This solution was then evaporated to dryness, and
during this operation the dissolved oxide of cobalt was se
parated in    grayi&h state. Being again dissolved in distilled
              a
water, filtered and evaporated, the faint ruby red colour of
the liquor was changed to pale red inclining to yellow, and
a grain of oxide of cobalt was in part separated in yellowish
brown flakes. The dry saline mass was again dissolved in
distilled water, and separated          by
                                     the filter from the sepa
rated oxide of cobalt   ; after which the solution was ouce
¦lore evaporated to dryness, and for       short time exposed
                                                 a
                                G   2                             to

  100       Experiments for ascertaining the Existence  of
  to an almost red heat.     A small quantity of saline mattflfc,
  amounting to about three or four grains, remained, which
  according to the different proofs made with it was nitrate of
  ammoiiia, and which when dissolved exhibited the same
  phamomenu as those, to be mentioned hereafter in the se
  venth experiment.     This no doubt arose from a still re
  maining trace of the arsenic acid, but by no means from
  cobaltic acid.
                         Experiment    VI.
     The other half of the solution, obtained by      the fourth,
  experiment, was decomposed by pure carbonate of ammo
  nia, by which means a pale red precipitate inclining to vi
  olet was produced.      The precipitate being then edulco
  rated with a sufficient quantity of water, it was digested
  with twice as much carbonate of ammonia and half an
  ounce of pure ammonia, by which means a beautiful violet
  blue solution inclining a little to red was produced, and
  there remained 30 grains of oxide of cobalt undissolved in
  the state of a carbonate. The filtered solution was evapo
  rated in a moderate heat to dryness, by which the ammo
  nia was dissipated, and the oxide of cobalt was separated of
  a dirty yellowish green colour.      When edulcorated and
  dried, it amounted to 24 grains, and contained less car
  bonate than the almost imperceptible residuum of the di
  gestion with ammonia. The liquor obtained from the edul-
 coration of the greenish yellow oxide of cobalt produced
 by the evaporation of the ammoniacal solution, was evapo
 rated in a porcelain dish, and exposed to a strong heat, but
 without bringing it to a red heat. By these means a resi
 duum of saline matter weighing scarcely two grains, and
 some black oxide of cobalt, were obtained.        The solution
 prepared from this substance exhibited the same pheno
 mena as nitrate of ammonia, and even with reagents, as-
 will be further mentioned in the seventh experiment; only
 it appeared to form with nitrate of silver a somewhat
 stronger precipitate, which could not be again immediately
dissolved, and which probably arose from the muriatic acid,
of the ammonia employed, as there was reason to suspect
from its white colour. From these phenomena it is proved
that some traces of arsenic acid were found in the precipi
tate of cobalt effected by ammonia, but none of cobaltic
acid.
    It still remained to examine the liquor in which the ox
ide of cobalt had been separated from its union with nitrous
                                                            acid

                      a real  Acid of Cobalt.                  101
 acid by means of ammonia, and to ascertain whether it
contained, besides nitrate of ammonia, cobaltic acid.          For
this purpose the following experiment was made :
                          Experiment   VII.
    The above fluid, which contained the nitrate of ammonia,
 formed in the preceding experiment by decomposing the
nitrate of cobalt by ammonia, being evaporated to dryness,
 the result was a brownish black residuum, which exhibited
 exactly the same phaenomena as nitrate of anunonia. When
 dissolved in distilled water the solution gradually acquired
 a reddish colour, and the blackish residuum of oxide cf
 cobalt which remained on the filter did not weigh com
 pletely two grains.       The liquor exhibited the following
 phaenomena    :
    It gave scarcely any red colour to litmus paper j it did
not produce the least turbid appearance in a solution of sul
 phate of copper : the case was nearly the same with an ain-
 moniacal solution of copper : nitrate of silver became a little
 turbid, and in a little time the cloudiness assumed a brownish
 colour:   acetite  of  lead  was  rendered  a little turbid, but
scarcely perceptible, and without depositing a precipitate
after long rest : in muriate of barytcs no turbid appearance
was observed : a drop of nitric acid added to a dram of the
turbid fluid occasioned no complete solution.
    The phaenomena of this experiment prove in the clearest
manner, that a trace of arsenical acid, but no real cobaltic
acid, was present.       This result, and no other, can be de
duced from the above experiments ; and it seems to be
 placed bevond all doubt, that cobalt cannot be converted
into an acid, at least by treating it with nitric acid.
    After these ineffectual attempts to produce cobaltic acid,,
by treating cobalt with nitric acid, I determined to try
Scheelc's process for forming arsenical acid j and though I
entertained   some doubts of obtaining cobaltic acid by thia
process, in consequence of having considered the circum
stances more maturely, and of knowing that the muriatic
acid has more affinity for oxygen than cobalt, as the muri
atic acid, when it comes into perfect contact with oxide of,
cobalt, takes from it a part of its oxygen* and is converted
into oxygenated muriatic acid, I was desirous of not leaving
it untried, and therefore proceeded in the following manner :
                         Experiment   VIII.
    A  hundred grains of carbonated oxide     of cobalt, obtained
and collected in the preceding experiments, and which con
sequently were free from arsenic acid, were heated- with thre«
                                G 3                         drams

 102     Experiments   for  ascertaining the Existence  of
drams of muriatic acid of the specific gravity of 1 120, and
two ounccsof pure nitric acid of 1210, and by continued
simmering were evaporated to dryness. From the begin
ning to the end of the operation, vapours of oxygenated
muriatic acid and of nitrous gas were disengaged : the former
exactly in the same manner as when muriatic acid is poured
over oxide of cobalt not carbonated nor heated to redness.
Three drams of muriatic acid and two ounces of nitric acid
were repeatedly poured over the oxide of cobalt, and distilled
to dryness. The same phasnomena took place. The acid so
 lution of cobalt evaporated to dryness was dissolved in four
ounces of water, filtered, and decomposed by pure carbonate
cf ammonia. After the decomposition as much ammonia
as was necessary for this purpose was then added, and the
whole was shaken for half an hour in a gentle heat.          The
solution had a blue appearance.       It was then freed from the
undissolved residuum by the filter and edulcoration, and,
being evaporated to dryness, three grains of oxide of cobalt
of a greenish colour were separated. The precipitate, when
dried in a gentle heat, weighed, without reckoning the small
quantity separated during the evaporation, about as much
as the oxide of cobalt employed, and had a violet colour.
The saline mass, when again dissolved and filtered, was of
a pale green colour, had a sharp metallic taste, and exhi
bited the following phxnomena :
    1st, It gave a red colour to litmus paper. 2d, It contained
ammonia, nitrous acid, and a little cobalt ; for when a little
of it was decomposed in a red heat and evaporated to dry
ness, which was accompanied with crackling and inflam
mation, nothing remained but two or three grains of black
oxide of cobalt, without a trace of acid. 3d, It produced no
turbid appearance in acetite of lead : 4th, Nor in nitrate of
silver. 5th, It rendered ammoniate of copper exceedingly
turbid ; but by the addition of more solution it was redis-
solvcd and became perfectly clear ; which proves that the
precipitate had been effected by the free acid of the com
bination. 6th, It communicated scarcely any turbid appear
ance to 6ulphate of copper : 7th, Nor did it disturb in any
manner nitrate of mercury prepared without heat. 8th, It
produced no change jn a concentrated solution of muriate
                                              ¦
ofbarytes.
    From this experiment, and the phaenomena it exhibited,
it appears proved beyond a doubt, 1st, That by the processes
described all the muriatic acid had been driven off: 2d, That
no more arsenical acid was present: and, 3d, That no co-
lialtic acid can be formed by this process.
                                                           Now,

                            a real Acid     of Cobalt.                            103
     Now,     as    the result    of
                          these experiments      that cobalt      is,
cannot be converted into   acid   by the most  powerful and
most active means employed     for changing into acids those
metals susceptible of acidification, and as      not impro   it   is
bable that nature may produce some circumstances favour
able to the formation of cobaltic acid, though there          not            is
the least reason to suspect that this can be the case in the
  reparation of the gray oxide of cobalt, nothing remains
E ut to admit that the cobaltic acid of Brugnatelli was an
union of arsenical acid with other substances; and this
conjecture      the less hazarded, as
                   is                        well known that all
                                                   it   is
oxide of cobalt contains more or less arsenic, and in all
probability in the state of acid.        now remains to show,
                                                  It
if possible,  that  this union  of arsenical  acid    capable of   is
producing    the  phenomena     which  Brugnatelli   observed                      in
regard to his supposed acid of cobalt.         This, in my opi
nion, will be best accomplished                   by
                                       the phenomena whicb
occurred in the following experiments.
                                 Experiment       IX.
    Four hundred parts of pure liquid ammonia were poured
 over fifty grains of arseniate of cobalt obtained      precipita   by
 tion, and digested two hours, during which the mixture
 sometimes was made to boil.        After the liquor, which was
 of red colour inclining to blue, was separated
     a                                                  filtration, by
 the same quantity of pure liquid ammonia was poured over
 the undissolved residuum, and the process repeated.            The
 colour of the liquor thus obtained was not so blue. The
 residuum had lost about two-thirds in weight, and had bei
 come blucish red       whereas the arseniate of cobalt has
                            ;                                                      a
 pale rose colour.    The two fluids obtained were evaporated
 ta dram, during which operation the greater part of the
    a
dissolved oxide of cobalt was separated of           grayish blue
                                                             a
colour.    The filtered liquor was of cochineal red, and ex-,
                                                   a
hibited the following phsenomena              :
     1st, A little of   Deing evaporated to dryness in
                            it                              porce.       a
lain dish, suffered ammonia to escape, and also deposited                          a
little grayish green oxide of cobalt.     The residuum, diluted
with distilled water and filtered, had scarcely reddish co    a
lour, as Brugnatelli observed in       specimen of his cobaltic
                                            a a
acid, and had sharp acid taste,
                    a                 property which he ascribes
in general to his cobaltic acid.          still contained
                                                  It          little         a
ammonia, and some traces of cobalt.
    sd,  Itgave     perceptible red colour to litmus paper, but
                        a
no acid taste was perceived in it.
    3d,  Itprecipitated lime water, without being redissolved,
                                       G4                                         by

 104        Experiments        for      ascertaining the Existence               of
by the addition of more fluid ; whereas the precipitate ob
tained (l) by further heating the obtained fluid, was imme
 diately redissolved by the addition of more fluid.
     4th, Muriate of barytes in a concentrated state was also
 precipitated by         it,
                       as well as                by
                                       arseniate of ammonia.
     5th, Nitrate of silver was precipitated           of brownish by
                                                                    it       a
 colour :     byshaking    withit   little muriate of potash, mu->
                                             a
 riate of soda, or muriate of ammonia, the precipitate im
 mediately became white.
     6th, Acetite of lead was precipitated
                                                                    by
                                                           white, and
                                                                    it
 immediately redissolved                by
                                   very small quantity of nitrous
                                             a
 acid.
     7th, Sulphate of copper was precipitated of bright green           a
 colour.
     8th, Ammoniate of copper was precipitated in the same
 manner, but in greater abundance.
•
     9th, Nitrate of mercury was precipitated             this fluid of by
a    bright  straw  yellow  colour;    by  more    acid  fluid  (l) the
 case was the same, and the precipitate produced arseniate
 of ammonia.
     As all these properties of cobaltic arseniate of ammonia
 correspond with those of the cobaltic acid of Brugnatelli,
 those of (5) excepted, no other conclusion can be made
 than that Brugnatelli's acid was the same combination,
 more or less altered by the treatment for according to his;
 assertion he obtained,                by
                               moderate heat in the sun, th* co
 baltic acid solution of       red colour, whereas when evapo
                                       a
 rated slowly       by
                    heat   was almost colourless.       The produc
                               by it
 tion of this union,       Brugnatelli's treatment of zafler with
 ammonia, can easily be explained zfiflcr contains arsenic,
                                                      :
 and   in all probability arseniate of cobalt. By digestion with
 ammonia this           in part decomposed and as most of
                         is                                    ;
 the cobalt    isseparated, there arises      triple combination of
                                                          a
 arsenical acid, ammonia, and more or less cobalt, which in
a   stronger heat suffers    part of the ammonia and cobalt to
                                    a
 be disengaged,     and then contains more or less free acid.
 The difference in the property (5) of my combination and the
 cobaltic acid of Brugnatelli can be easily explained,               be          if   it
 admitted that Bru;inatelli's ammonia contained             great deal       a
     muriatic acid which ;      very possible for
                                        is              this case the
                                                               ;        in
«f rown arseniate of silver produced          the arsenical acid of
                                                          by
the combination in question must have been immediately
 redecomposed, as the muriatic acidt in consequence of its
.greater affinity for the silver, united itself to produce mu
riate of silver in     white form, and then gave rise to the
                         a
precipitate of Brugnatelli.
                                                                             Brugnatelli

                       a real Acid   of Cobalt.                105
      Brugnatclli himself suspected that his cobaltic acid was
  arsenical acid ; but he was so deceived by certain considera
  tions that he paid no further attention to this suspicion,
  and neglected to verify it by experiments : on the contrary,
  he was convinced of the reality of his cobaltic acid on the
  following grounds :
      1st, The arsenical acid docs not precipitate silver from
  its solution, but the cobaltic acid does.
      2d, The arsenical acid decomposes lime water, and the
. precipitate is rcdissolved by the addition of new arsenical
  acid or lime \yater ; the cobaltic acid decomposes lime
  water, and the precipitate produced dissolves neither in a
  new quantity of cobaltic acid nor in a new addition of lime
  water.
      3d, Neither acetite of lead nor muriate of barytes is de
   composed by the arsenical acid ; on the other hand, both
   these salts are immediately decomposed by the cobaltic acid.
      4th, The arsenical acid dissolves very well in alcohol : on
   the other hand, liquid cobaltic acid, when united with pure
   alcohol, is immediately precipitated in a solid form.
      What weight these four arguments have in regard to the
   existence of the cobaltic acid, I shall now examine.
       In regard to the first, the assertion of Brugnatclli is di
   rectly contrary to experience. The arsenical acid certainly
   precipitates silver from a solution of arsenical acid, and of
   a brown colour ; but with a small quantity of this acid and
   a large quantity of muriatic acid, white.    This appears from
   what has been already said, and has been proved by my
   own experience. Against the justness of the assertion which
   Brugnatclli gives as the second ground for the existence of
   the cobaltic acid, nothing, so far as the question relates to
   pure arsenical acid, can be objected ; but that the union of
   arsenical acid, ammonia, and cobalt, produces with lime
   water the same phaenomena as Brugnatelli observed in re
   gard to his cobaltic acid, — that is to say, of precipitating
    nine water without dissolving the precipitate produced by
    the addition of more of the precipitating matter, — has been
   already seen in the ninth experiment (3).      Hence it follows
    that the second ground is equally unsatisfactory and incon
    clusive.                                                       «
       The ground which Brugnatelli assumes as the third proof
    of his cobaltic acid, is in part incorrect, and contrary to all
    experience : everv chemist knows that acetate of lead is very
    easily decomposed ; by w hich means a very abundant preci
    pitate of arscniate of lead is produced, which is exceedingly
    difficult of solution on a new addition of -arsenical acid. It
                                                                  is

 106       On the Existence    of a real Acid of Cobalt.
 is however true, that muriate of barytes is not rendered
 turbid by arsenical acid : but arseniatc of ammonia forms
 with a concentrated solution of muriate of barytes as abun
 dant a white precipitate as this triple combination, which,
when the solution of the mixed salts is very much diluted,
 takes place sparingly, and in shining leaves : but the preci
pitate, by the addition of free arsenical acid, again disap
pears.    What opinion ought therefore to be formed of this
 third ground of argument may readily be seen.
    In regard to the fourth, 1 shall feave it entirely to the
judgment of the reader.     I shall however observe, that we
may conclude, without much danger of erring, that the
four circumstances here adduced by Brugnatelh as proofs
of the existence of his cobaltic acid, are not conclusive.
They are not contrary to the principle here established by
experience, that the supposed cobaltic acid is a triple com
bination of arsenical acid, ammonia, and cobalt, in which
the first acts the most distinguished part.   In consequence
of the falsity of the experiments from which they are de
duced, thev throw an unfavourable light on the accuracy of
Brugnatelh's process, and give us some clue to guide us, in
regard to the opinion which ought to be formed of the other
assertions of Brugnatclli, and the phaenomena he observed
in regard to the cobaltic acid.
    From the experiments, considerations, and deductions,
here mentioned, we have the following results :
    I. Cobalt cannot be converted into an acid when treated
with ever so much nitric acid, and often repeating the
process.
   II. Nor can this be effected by means of muriatic acid
and nitrous acid, according to the process of Scheelc.
   III. The supposed cobaltic acid of Brugnatelli is in all
probability nothing else than unmasked arsenical acid, an
union of this with ammonia, and a little oxide of cobalt.
At any rate, this union produces the phenomena which
Brugnatelli considered as characteristic of his cobaltic acid.
   IV. Cobalt free from arsenic, or the oxide of    it,will not,
by  treatment with nitric acid and ammonia, produce the
phaenomena     exhibited  by  the cobaltic acid of Brugnatelli,
and   which  can   also be exhibited     by
                                         our union of arsenical
acid  with  cobalt.
   V. These experiments, and the circumstances attending
them, prove how necessary      it   to examine every new dis
                                    is
covery  before it   isadmitted as truth  ;unless people wish to
he deceived, and to be under the necessity of retracting
what they have before asserted.
                                                      XV. M«.

                                  t        107    ]
XV. Memorial of Mr. E. G. J. Crookeens                                  respecting
     the  Distillation of Spirits,              c#c. in   Holland.        {Trans
     lated from tlie French.) *
Xn order    to answer the questions relative to the purity and
goodness of the spirit distilled from grain, I shall chiefly
confine myself to that which is distilled in Holland, and so
much esteemed in this country on account of its flavour as
well as of its purity and salubrity ; because the nature of
this spirit, or geneva, and the method of distilling          from        it,
the first beginning to the last stage of rectification,      better      is
understood by me than the spirit distilled in this country,
and the manner of distilling it.       If you consider the hu
midity   of  the  air in Holland,  and  the influence which this
unhealthy     air must   naturally possess upon the health of
the inhabitants, and that not only all the physicians, but
also the people at large, are convinced that the spirit drawn
from grain, or geneva, as          there distilled,
                                      it   is          drunk with  if
moderation,     is an universal preservative against the infir
mities and epidemical diseases which this damp air must
naturally produce,      itcannot be      matter of surprise that
                                                  a
the use of geneva        so universal throughout Holland, and
                        is
that the Dutch nation has carried the art of distilling           to            it
a  degree of perfection which       has not yet been possible to
                                           it
attain in any other country.       To form       judgment on the
                                                          a
beneficial nature of this spirit,       shall only quote this one
                                                 1
fact, averred       daily example, and which has certainly not
                   by
escaped   the  notice  of English travellers who have traversed
Holland, or resided there some time with             spirit of ob
                                                               a
servation, viz. that numbers of persons are found much
advanced in years who since their youth have made consi
derable debauches in this spirit, while all those who commit
similar excesses in foreign spirits succumb and perish in the
bloom of life; and this observation leads me naturally to
thk question, Wherein does that beneficial virtue of the
Dutch geneva consist, which          enjoys in preference to all
                                            it
other spirits  ?   The answer to this question must be found
in the sort of grain,       the good quality of each sort, in the
                             in
manner of proceeding and drawing from                 spirit which
                                                              it   a
is  pure, and unmixed with any heterogeneous matter which
might impair its natural goodness. An explanation of these
 points will contain,   I  think, the answer to the principal
    * From the
               Parliamentary      Report respecting the Distilleries          in   Scot
land.
                                                                         question

108                      of Spirits, &c. in Holland.
          On the Distillation
question respecting the manner of improving and melio
 rating the distilleries in this country.
    I am perfectly aware that, treating on these particulars,
 I shall not be able to explain myself in a language which is
not my native speech, with that purity and precision which
the importance of the subject requires ; but I shall endea
vour to supply this deficiency by that veracity and frankness
which may naturally be expecfed from a man who is not in
the least connected with the distillers in this country, nor
anywise personally interested in concealing or altering facts,
and who in this business looks out for no other reward but
the pleasure and satisfaction of being able to contribute his
mite to the public welfare, and to the preservation of the
health of so many millions of people, who may suffer either
from the ignorance or avarice of the distillers, —reserving to
myself only some peculiar manipulations, which have no
influence on the public welfare, and which can merely
serve the private purpose of distillers, who use and put
them in practice.
    On entering upon this subject I shall have no occasion
to enlarge on the quality of the grain, it being universally
known, that in order to produce a spirit which is pure, and
of a pleasant flavour, grain must be used which is pure, and
not spoiled by wet either in the field or the granaries.           I
shall therefore confine my observations on the species of
grain, and observe in this respect, that the Dutch distillers
arc perfectly acquainted with the manner of drawing spirits
from the malt of barley, as well as from unmalted barley
with a portion of malt added to          it,  the proportion of
                                               in
third or fourth part and there are several petty distillers
                      ;                                           in a
that country who still make use of that grain on account of
its low price and in general the spirit drawn from barley
                ;
is of a   very pure and vinous nature, provided always that
the operation be conducted in that slow manner which shall
be developed    in the sequel   :noris    less true, that all great
                                         it
distillers in Holland arc convinced that malt yields not only
a  purer spirit, but also   a
                                greater quantity than raw barley
mixed with malt, in the beiorc-mentioncd proportion, con
trary to the general opinion of the distillers in this country    j
and my own experience has confirmed me in the above opi
nion, if   the malt be perfectly well made, for       very evident
                                                         a
reason. The artificial vegetation which the grain under
goes disengages the saccharine matter, and renders            more
                                                             it
proper to be extracted    by  the water nay,
                                         ;         augments the
                                                    it
saccharine matter contained in the grain. To be convinced
                                                                  of

        On the Distillation  of Spirits, 6fc. in Holland.    1 09
of   the truth of this remark, we have only to examine the
malt from time to time during the operation, and we shall
find that this matter develops itself more and more as the
grain grows longer ; yet this vegetation should be stopped
as soon as this matter is disengaged from the length of the
grain, otherwise the saccharine part will be lost ; and if it
be stopped too soon, when this matter has only disengaged
itself from half the length of the grain, as is done by several
brewers in Holland, all the saccharine matter contained in
the grain not being disengaged, it cannot be so easily dis
solved in the water. I am convinced by several experiments,
which I have made myself on several sorts of malt, and in
 different degrees of perfection, that about a fourth part
 more spirits is obtained from malt, which is perfectly well
 made, than from that in which the vegetation has been
 checked too soon, or carried to excess.         The manner of
 drying it is also an article of equal importance ; and in ge
 neral, malt dried too quick, and by an unequal heat, yields
 not as much spirit, nor a spirit of as pleasant a taste, as
 malt dried in an equal and slow manner.          If it be consi
 dered that the saccharine matter of the grain produces alone
 and exclusively the spirit, it will be easily conceived that
 malt of barley must yield more spirit, and of a more plea
 sant taste, in proportion as the saccharine matter is more
 developed in the malt, and rendered more proper to be ex
 tracted and dissolved by water than in unmalted or raw
 grain, where this matter is united and combined with the
 other particles of the grain ; and if some distillers in this
 country are of opinion that'raw barley mixed with a certain
 quantity of malt produces somewhat more spirit, they must
 necessarily have made their experiments with malt which
 had not attained the last degree of perfection, and they
 must not understand as well the art of making malt as the
 brewers in this countrv, who have carried it to the highest
 degree of perfection.    I rather incline to think that the di
 stillers in this country prefer raw grain for the same reason
 it is preferred in Holland, namely, because it neither costs
 so much trouble nor expense, and that the result depends
 not on as many little circumstances and precautions.
     In Holland but very seldom use is made of barley, not
 withstanding the purity of the spirit which it yields, as it
 has been found out that barley yields but little spirit com
 pared with other grain : for this reason other species of
 grain have been substituted in its place, which yield a more
 considerable profit, while at the same time the spirit they
                                                             give

 110     On the Distillation       of Spirits, &c. in Holland.
 give is by no means inferior, from the precautions attended
 to in the operation.
    Wheat mixed with a portion of barley malt, in the above-
 mentioned proportion, yields more spirit than barley, and
 of a vinosity and fineness of taste which exceed all belief;
 and the distillers in Holland, who wish to produce a very
 fine geneva, make use of wheat, and sell this spirit to pri
 vate persons, who desire to have               at double the price of
                                               it,
 common geneva;        and    ifthe    fermentation    and distillation
 be  conducted   with  prudence,      a  spirit may    be drawn from
it  which equals the spirit of wine in vinosity and flavour.
I   have known       adistiller in Rotterdam who sold his spirit
 drawn from wheat for true French spirit of wine; and in
 order to give it  this flavour he made the grain ferment with
 the dried lees of wine, which he procured from France, in
stead of barm      the lees of wine having this advantage, that
               a ;slow   fermentation, and, as they contain
they procure                                                                       a
considerable quantity of essential oil of wine, they commu
nicate to the spirit the flavour of the wine from which they
are taken. In Westphalia, and throughout the whole circle
of Lower Saxony, no spirit of wine               to be found anyways
                                                is
passable,  although    the   distillers  follow  the process observed
in Holland in regard to the composition, without acting
upon the principles of the Dutch distillers with respect to
the fermentation and distillation, excepting the bishopric of
Hihlersheim and its environs, where the distillers make use
only of raw wheat mixed with          a   small portion of malt and           ;
this proves the superiority of wheat above all other species
of grain.
  Notwithstanding all these advantages, wheat    not made           is
use of in Holland for common or general use, as experience
has proved that rye, which in ordinary times         much                is
cheaper than wheat, gives nearly         third more spirit than
                                           a
wheat, and that          by
                       the way of proceeding they have at
tained the art of drawing from         vinous and pleasant spi
                                      it   a
rit, and in point of salubrity by no means inferior to that
drawn from barley or wheat, nay, perhaps superior in this
respect to the two others.     Previously to my entering upon
a  minute account of the distillation made use of and prac
tised in Holland,    Iought to observe, that        must not beit
supposed that all the distillers scattered through that coun
try are able to make good spirits.       You fincf, on the con
trary, in many places very bad geneva             only the great
                                                     ;   it   is
distillers in Schiedam, Welsep, Rotterdam, and in general
the distillers in the province      Gucldrcs, who are capable
                                      >f
                                                                                  of

         On the Distillation of Spirits, &c. in Holland.      111
of delivering the spirit, which is so much sought after and
valued in foreign countries, while petty distillers, though they
follow the same method, but not to the same perfection,
from want of a knowledge of the first principles, and of a
good theory of the art of distillation, fail in their object ;
and it is for this reason that the servants and workmen who
were procured in this country from the distilleries in Holland,
have never been able to succeed in producing a spirit of the
same good quality as their antient masters made in Holland;
and this is exactly as if a machine employed in manufacto
ries were given to a man to make a stuff the properties of
which he does not know. The art of distillation is a branch
of chemistry, and subject to the principles and unvariable
laws of that science, and a person destitute of a knowledge of
the first principles of that science will never attain to the de
sired degree of perfection in the distillation of spirits from
corn or grain.     In Holland are also found unprincipled di
stillers, who, making use of spoiled grain, have recourse to
the pernicious additions to cover the bad taste and flavour
of their spirit ; but fortunately the palate of the people is
so accustomed to a pure spirit, that this pernicious geneva
cannot be sold in the interior, but is for the most part ex
ported to the two Indies, Africa, and other countries.
    Commonly three sorts of spirit are made : one which re
quires to be rectified over juniper berries for the use of the
interior, which is in some degree weaker than that exported
for England, because in Holland it is not usual to mix it
with water, but to drink it pure ; another for being exported
to England, also rectified over a small quantity cf juniper
berries, but some degree stronger ; and a third sort, recti
fied to the same degree of strength, but without the addi
tion of juniper berries, for exportation to America, because
the North Americans do not like that flavour, but prefer
the spirit quite pure, without any addition which may give
a peculiar taste.
    There are two principal processes : — The major part of
the distillers take a quantity of flour of rye, ground rather
grossly, mixed with a third or fourth part of barley malt,,
proportionate to the size of the tub in which the vinous fer- .
mentation is to be effected.      They begin by mixing it withj
cold water; this mixture is much stirred with the hand to
prevent the flour from gathering into lumps, and that it
 may be evenly divided.      When this point is attained, water
is added to the mass, which water must have been heated
to the degree of the warmth of human blood : the whole.
          3                                                  must

 112    On the Distillation   of Spirits, &c. in Holland.
   must be well stirred, in order to divide the grain in an even
   manner ; after which the ferment is mixed with this wash ,
   after it has been previously well diluted with a little of the
   liquid.   Great attention should be paid to the tub being
   kept  in a moderate degree of warmth, fit for the intended
   fermentation, by giving the air some access to the liquid,
  and by preventing the rays of the sun from falling on the
  tub in summer, and by procuring a current of fresh air for
  the laboratory : the fermentation generally begins in this
  case six hours after ; should it be sooner, it is judged that
  the fermentation will be too strong, and means are em
  ployed to check it : if it does not commence soon enough,
  proper means are made use of to accelerate it : if the fer
 mentation be well conducted, it generally terminates the
  third day, and the liquor grows very transparent, and as
  sumes an acrid taste, hot, and biting on the tongue. When
 it has attained this point, the wort is well stirred, and the
 mash with all the corn is put into the caldron ; and here
 upon they proceed to the first distillation, which is con
 ducted very slowly.     Great attention should be paid, that
 the mash be taken exactly at that time before the acetous
 fermentation, which destroys the spirit, can begin. The
 slowness of the first distillation is a point of the utmost
 importance ; because, if you proceed rapidly, the essential
 oil goes over with the spirit, and mixes with it so intimately,
 giving it at the same time an unpleasant taste of corn, that
 it is impossible to separate it from the spirit, or to destroy
this taste, but by pernicious additions hurtful to health :
 thus, then, the success in obtaining a good spirit chiefly
depends on the first distillation.       Hereupon the liquor is
rectified over juniper berries once or twice, according to the
sort of spirit which it is intended to produce. For common
use one rectification is sufficient; because, if the above pre
caution be attended to, the spirit is sufficiently mild to be
drunk by the people, though not so fine, pleasant, and de
licate, as that which has undergone several rectifications      ;..
and the product of these multiplied rectifications     is   called
double geneva, and paid for accordingly.          Some distillers
mix their juniper berries immediately with their wort, and
cause the whole to ferment together but in this case they
                                       :
can only draw from   it a   spirit tor the use of the interior, or
for exportation to England    ;   for this reason they are gene
rally only made use of at the rectification.       In the before-
mentioned case,    and  method    of operating,
                                            I     would however
recommend the addition thereof previous to the fermenta
                                                            tion,

          On tlie  Distillation of Spirits, &c. in Holland.   1 13
  tion,  because the juniper berries by their aromatic virtues
 augment the spirit a little if the fermentation be conducted
 jn a proper manner, as will be seen in the sequel.
     The second method observed by the best distillers is as
 follows   : — You   take the malt and rye in the given propor
 tion,   and   further some warm water, heated to a certain
 degree of warmth ; you mix the corn, grossly ground, with
 this water, stirring and working it well, until the whole be
 well mixed and evenly divided ; then let the wash rest some
 time, until the meal has settled at the bottom ; hereupon let
 the liquid matter flow into the fermenting tub, and recom
 mence the same operation with another quantity of water
 poured upon the same corn, and repeat these operations
 until you are convinced that die water thus drawn from the
 corn at different times has dissolved the whole saccharine
 matter contained in the meal ; put this water into the fer
 menting tub, and as soon as the warmth is diminished
 somewhat under the temperature of the blood, add the fer
 ment.      The fermentation does not begin so soon as in the
 first method, but is more regular and slow. Other distillers,
 who observe the same method, pour all the water which
they intend to make use of, in order to have a well diluted
wort, and of an equal degree of heat, at once in a tub, and
 put their meal gently and slowly into this whole mass of
 water, while one or two persons are quickly stirring the
mixture with sticks made expressly for that purpose, in order
evenly to divide the meal, and to prevent it from gathering
into lumps.       When the whole is well mixed they proceed,
as mentioned in the preceding article, by drawing off the
liquid from the grosser matter, &c. &e.
    This method is not entirely to be rejected, because the
water has thus a more free access to every part of the corn,
and for this reason can more easily extract the saccharine
matter. After the fermentation is finished, and the liquid
has become very transparent, and assumed the hot and
biting taste, you proceed to the aforementioned slow di
stillation.
    In all these cases the water for making the wort must be
more heated in winter than in summer ; and when the wea
ther is uncommonly hot, you should cool the liquid with
cold water, and at the same time add to it a little fresh flour j"
and by this means you obtain a slow and almost iinperccptN
ble vinous fermentation, which is a very important point hi
regard to the quality as well as the quantity of spirit.
                            [To Le continued.]
    Vol. XVIII.     No.    70.       H                  XVI.  On

                                  [    H4       ]
XVI.    On the Cure       of the Gout. By A. Stenhouse, M.D.
                                  Edinburgh *.
X have heretofore given some communications on the
effects of ginger in the gout ; and, although I have received
much relief in the painful stage of that disorder, bv the
daily use of it for these three years past, yet the debility
that followed was not less tedious : so that I continued my
         of something more efficacious, which I am hopeful
   have at last found, and which I consider it to be a duty to
fursuit
promulgate. Much have I thought for these eighteen years,
 and many ah unintelligible page have I read upon this sub
ject : but to come to the present question, since I am not
 writing a book : — In the month of April last, a publication
was put into my hand, which had escaped my notice, by a
judicious acquaintance, to whom I am much obliged, enti
tled « Facts and Observations respecting the Air-pump
Vapour-bath      f in Grout, Rheumatism, Falsv, and other
Disorders ; by Ralph Blegborough, M. D., Member of the
Royal College of Surgeons, London ;' which apparatus, if
it has all the effects ascribed to     should be in every hos
                                               it,
pital and neighbourhood.         was so much pleased with the
                                      I
successful operation of this apparatus, because       confirmed
                                                              it
an opinion   I  have long entertained of the immediate cause,
of paroxysm of the gout (for of the gout am only speak
   a                                                     I
ing) that I   was determined to try the experiment on myself
the first opportunity, though on        more simple scale
                                                 a           my         :
opinion will be elucidated by the following remarks and
experiments    :
    The immediate cause of all acute pain            take to be
                                                             I
either irritation or obstruction    the latter
                                           :     surely the im
                                                         is
mediate cause of        gouty paroxysm.
                          a                  To trace  causes to
 their elements      but an uncertain pursuit, and cannot be.
                     is
attempted here.      That this obstruction takes place in the
minute branches of the arteries,       hold to be true
                                               I         nor do    j
  *   From the Edinburgh Courant of January 9, 1S04.
f     For description of this apparatus see printed letter of Dr. Bleg
         a                                           a
borough, dated February 19, 1802; also the Philosophical         Magazine,
vol. xiv. p. 2S9. We cannot here avoid noticing          late plagiarism of
                                                         a
this invention. A    French paper, Lt Clef du Cabinet, of June         1803,
                                                                       5,
informs the Parisians, that M. JaquesBoyol,
                              a                  physician at Nice, among
                                                     a
other useful medical machines, has invented different pumps for curing
gout, rheumatism, palsy, &c.          by
                                   administering baths of air and vapour.
The article concludes with stating, that Mr. Nnth. Green, the English
consul at Nice, had offered the modest inventor 30,009 guineas to carry
his discovery to London   !
                          !
                          I
                                                                       I    see

                                  On the Cure            of   the Gout.                         1 15
 I    see   any phenomenon           the gout, but what may
                                                in   a fit    of
 be accounted for by this hypothesis.    It will be easy to see
 that for the present I deny the existence of gouty matter ;
 nor do          I
            consider the earthy concretions formed in the
joints   after repeated severe attacks to be a proof of this,
 since the same phenomenon may be produced from the
 blood out of the body by a similar process.     It is remark
 able that, thougli much has been written on this subject,
 so little has been attempted, either to prevent the gene
 rating this disease, or mitigating the violence of its parox
 ysms. The reason of this I take to have been a supposi
 tion that there was something deleterious in the obstructed
 matter, and that it was unsafe either to prevent the fit, or
 tamper with the parts affected : of this prejudice I have had
 my share until within these three years.        There is a preva
 lent opinion I know, with those unacquainted with the laws
 of the circulation of 4hc blood, that there arc applications,
 very improperly called repellents, which may drive back
 the gouty matter ; but I tell my gouty readers, there             no                     »is
 operation can take place in the animal system in this sense:
 in fine, there can be no repellents nor discutients where
 there arc no absorbents       but my readers must be cautious
                                                :
 how they counteract the intentions of nature, or,               they                 if
 must use the word, they must beware tbat                   improper            by
 applications they do not repel the disposition of the system
  to produce      paroxysm, and thereby send
                          a                           to some more         it
  vital part; which happened to myself, the first symptom                                        I
  had of this disease
     I  come now to describe my practice upon myself;                                            I
  have already said     took the hint from the air-pump vapour-
                                  I
  bath eight or nine months ago.        The end of September last
    was attacked       my right hand, but being in the country
                              in
I I  could not put my intentions in practice until              came                 I
  home;              by
               this time   the fit had acquired  its last  stage both
  in pain and swelling.           then got    common tureen half
                                                I                      a
  full of boiling water        laid my hand across, and covered
                                            I
                                            ;
  all over with some folds of flannel but presently the steam      ;
  was so hot, that        was obliged to reduce the heat of the
                                  I
  water so as to be able to bear the steam.       In few minutes            a
  the pain abated, and in about 25 minutes             was perfectly       I
  free from pain      and as the steam became so cold as to be
                              ;
  no longer useful,       dried my hand and wrapped             up in                it
  flannel; and, had               if it I
                          not been for the swelling,      could have            I
  used    as well as
            it           nothing had happened. About this time
  my right foot began to give me some symptoms of an at
  tack  ;   allowed it to proceed for about 24 hours, or until
             1
                                                     H   2                                I     was

1 16             On the Use     of   Steamed Potatoes
I  was convinced      it was to be a real fit.         I then got a pail
with two handles,         and from the handles I suspended              a
towel to rest my heel upon ; I then filled the pail with boil
ing water, so full as not to touch my heel, and covered it
over with several folds of flannel for about half an hour, as
in the first experiment; I dried my foot, and wrapped it up
in flannel : I was perfectly free from pain, and walked about
the room as usual.         I repeated this immersion five or six
times this day and the following, since when I have had no
complaint in my foot ; but, as I had only immersed my
hand once in steam, in two days the pain returned, as if
the obstruction had not been perfectly removed.                     I had
recourse to the steam again, which I repeated two or three
times.     I have waited thus long to give a fair trial to its
effects.    I am still alive, and have been in good health ever
since, though at the border of seventy.
    May I not fairly say that here are two experiments,
and, what is more, at different stages of the paroxysms,
which have been successful in removing the immediate
cause, which I consider to be obstruction only, by the re
laxing quality of the steam, or, what is the same thing,
diminishing the pressure of the common atmosphere ? Fi
nally, I shall continue the ginger daily, and repeat the va
pour-bath when necessary; and if either stomach or bowels,
or other viscera, shall be attacked, I shall immerse my
whole body in a hogshead of steam,                 To prevent the fre
quent return of the paroxysms I live abstemiously, being
certain that, in my case, the habit of body between reple
tion and inanition will conduce thereto ; and such a state
will be the most likely to prevent or mitigate diseases of
any kind. If what has been said and done shall be thought
erroneous, I shall kiss the rod of conviction.
                                               A. Stenhouse, M.D.
XVII.     On the Use     of  Steamed     Potatoes   as a Substitute   for
                           Hay    to  Caftle*.
 J.  he silver  medal     of  the Society for the Encouragement
of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce, was this session
voted to John Christian Curwen, esq. M.P., of Working
ton Hall, in Cumberland, for his extensive experiments on
feeding cattle with steamed potatoes ; from whom the fol
   *  From Transactions of the Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Ma~
pufactmes, and Commerce,    vol. xxi.
                                                                  lowing

              04-   a Substitute   for Hay    to Cattle.          11   f
lowing accounts. and     certificates   were received,   and to which
engravings and descriptions are annexed          :
       SIR,
    In a letter, which I had the pleasure of addressing to
you some time ago, I took the liberty of hinting at an ex
periment I was making, in giving steamed potatoes as a
substitute in a great measure Tor hay.
    I was then wholly unacquainted with its having been
tried.   It was from my friend the bishop of Landaf} I first
learnt that the Board or Agriculture had made a report upon
it. As I do not find that was carried to any great extent,
nor given in the way I have done, I shall, with much de
ference to the Society of Arts, &c. offer what has occurred
to me, together with the plan I have adopted for steaming
and washing.      Having nothing of the kind to assist me in
my beginning,     I found great difficulty and much time con
sumed, which I trust this will remedy to those who may
be inclined to make the experiment.
   My respectable friend and neighbour the bishop of Lan-
daff took the trouble of examining the process, and in
quiring into every thing relating to it, and has certified the
complete success of the plan, and his approbation of the
apparatus.    It was in consequence of the alarming failure
in the hay crop of the year 1801 that I found myself called
upon to take some steps to prevent the serious consequences
which were likely to result from it. The importations of
hay from Ireland in August were from gd. to lid. per
Btone of 14 pounds.       In this situation it fortunately oc
curred to me, that I had for many years given a proportion
of steamed potatoes, mixed with the other food, to my
hounds, and found it to answer extremely well.       If hounds
could stand their work with this feed, I could scarcely ad
mit a doubt of its being a hard as well as nutritious food.
Under this impression I bctran my steaming in October
 1801, and continued it till late in May.       The prejudices
I had to encounter were such as would have defeated the
plan, had I not followed it up for some months with con
stant and unremitting attention ; and whoever attempts             it,
will have difficulties to contend with that require particular
attention to overcome. In no one instance did         fail, and
                                                           it
my horses were never in such spirit and condition.           In
October last  I    recommenced my operations, and am able,
to steam from 160 to 200 stone, of fourteen pounds each,
     day I   have fed upwards of eighty horses constantly
 Eer
        :
  oth seasons ;  and this vear  Ihave extended the feed to my
                                H   3                           milch

 118             On the Use   of Steamed Potatoes
milch cows, taking away all hay and only giving a little
straw.    Each horse has a stone and half or potatoes, or
twenty -one pounds, estimated at 3d. per stone, 4 id. ;
steaming, a Halfpenny; ten pounds of bruised corn, 6d.;
five pounds of hay, 2a.; two pounds of cut straw to mix
with the corn, a halfpenny ; making on the whole 13^-d.
per day.     Each tub of potatoes, containing eleven stone,
has one of cut straw mixed up with it ; it is given warm,
and a horse will eat a stone in less than half an hour, whilst
between six and seven would be required to cat a stone of
hay. The time gained for rest contributes greatly, I have
no doubt, to promote the health and condition of the
horses.
   The facility with which potatoes can be transported from
place to place, is much in their favour, and being without
damage, to which hay is liable, is a further object.          The
individual gain will be found great where ground is highly
rated and not easily procured, as will be commonly the
case where horses are most wanted.           In a national point
of view it may be important, should the population of the
country advance as rapidly as it has for some years past.
The potatoc crop is produced from ground which would
otherwise be under fallow ; and when proper care is taken,
the wheat after potatoes is equal, if not superior, to that from
fallowed ground. The year previous to my adopting my pre
sent method, I sunk the rent of my farm, valued at a thou
sand pounds (about 700 acres),and seven hundred pounds be
sides.   In the last year I cleared, receiving the same prices for
my   work,  21 89 1.   The only difference I can point out is in
the price of oats ; this might deduct 300 1.     I had forty acres
last year under potatoes : the wetness of the ground, and the
very unfavourable season, made my crop a bad one. I shall
have this year sixty. I have found no difficulty in importing
from Scotland and Ireland, at 3d. and 3id. per stone. The
quantity being more than I required, I have sold to the
poor at reduced prices at 3d. whilst the markets were from
5d. to 6d. I had 3O0 acres under hay, and never suffi
cient: I expect that 150 now will be more than sufficient
for all my wants. The value of hay was heretofore in pro
portion to my necessity : having no longer occasion for
any, the price will fall to the neighbourhood.          Indeed it
has, as I might purchase at 6d. per stone what was seldom
or ever under 9d., and more frequently a shilling. I have
every pound of hay weighed, so as to prevent all waste ;
and, thouch this is some trouble and expense, I have reason
to believe it is amply repaid by the ceconomy it enforces.
                                                             I beg

                   us a Substitute  for Hay    to Cattle.              1 19
   I  beg pardon for the unreasonable length of this letter.
Without       a considerable degree of enthusiasm, I should
never have got through with my undertaking ; and the so
ciety will, I hope, excuse me if          I have attached more im
portance to the matter than it deserves.            If any further in
formation should be wanted, I shall be happy to give it.
                              With great respect,
                           I have the honour to be, sir,
                                       Your obedient      servant,
                                                     J.  C. CuRWEN*
   P. S.    I  make no difference in the feed of a cart-horse, or
one of my carriage horses ; the allowance is the same. The
coals for steaming 160 stone of potatoes,         I  have found to be
two Winchester bushels and aquarter, or 137 lb. of coal.
One labourer also is sufficient to steam, wash,               £  . s. d.
    &c. 1 60 stone         -      -      -      -       -      018
Two Winchester         bushels and a quarter    of coals,
   at 3d. each bushel           -       -       -       -      0    O     7
                                                               0     2    3
The cost is therefore under a farthing per stone,
              ......
    leaving a residue of 13d. per day, which in
    six months would produce              -     -       -      9 15       0
The    cost   of the apparatus,   washer                      12   12     0
              *._....
 Four tubs, at 2 1. 2 s. each                                  8     8    0
Boiler                                                         5     5    0
 Platform for the tubs                                        10   10     0
 Pump                                                          5     5    0
Building           -                                          CO     0    0
    Belle Isle,                                              102     0    0
 March 6, 1S03.
    To   Mr. diaries Taylor.
        SIR,
    In addition to what I have had the pleasure of commu
 nicating to you on the subject of potatoes, I wish to add
 a few oDservations,      to guard such as may be inclined to
 make the experiment of
                              feeding with them, against the per
 nicious effects of the liquor which distils from the potatoe.
 The first attempt I made to give potatoes to hounds, was
                                  H   4                            fifteen

 1 20                   On the Use   of Steamed    Potatoes
 fifteen years ago : they were boiled with their other footf                         j
 but I was soon obliged to desist from
                                                       it it,
                                           the hounds being
 very violently purged and affected         from this trial
                                                  by       :                         I
 was satisfied that the potatoe liquor contained   very poi             a
  sonous quality, which must be highly pernicious.                    Indeed,
I   have no doubt,          if any animal was suffered to drink the
  water which comes from the potatoe,                  would be destroyed
                                                      it
    byit.    It   is upon   this   account
                                         I     adopted the leaden cistern
  upon which the tub rests, and into which the steam                         in is
 troduced. Though            I   am satisfied there         is   a
                                                               great   loss   of
 steam       by   it, and   an   increased    expenditure     of fuel,   yet to
 keep     clear   of the  potatoe liquor mixing       with   the potatoes, is-
 of the first importance. As a remedy against the loss of
 steam,   I      should advise to lengthen the steam-pipe in the
 cistern, so as to throw the steam to the centre of the tub,
 and to have       a  hole cut, and covered with           leaden cap, with
                                                        by a
 holes for the steam to pass through              ;       which means the
 condensation will fall          by    the sides of the tub, and mnch
 steam be saved.             The potatoes arc made much drier by
 suffering them to stand             a few minutes in the tub after the
 steam   is    taken from them.
    I  had so little assistance from any thing previously done
 in steaming, that the first season          it   required five men to do
 the work which one man can now accomplish with ease.
It   took two persons to wash them, which they did in                                a
 very incomplete manner          /      two to steam and bruise, and
 one man and            horse to furnish water.
                        a                              The washer will be
 found to answer the purpose admirably well and when the        ;
saving of water             isan object, its- value will be increased.
Several private families have adopted them upon                          smalt
                                                                            a
scale,     and    found    great   convenience     from  it.     believe
                                                                    I       the
method    I       have adopted of mixing          a
                                                      portion   of cut   straw
(from    a   tenth to an eleventh part) is highly advantageous                       :
first, as    it  prevents the food passing too quickly; and, se
condly,      as   it  keeps the mouths of the horses from being
clogged       with    the potatoes.       Should doubts still remain as
to the performance and health of the horses thus fed,                       am
                                                                            I
ready     to  afford   unquestionable      proof   from   the  persons    who
have the care of them.           I      shall ahvavs be readv to answer
any questions, or to afford any further information in my
power.
    From what           Ihave previously stated, the advantages                      L
have already reaped from this method will be apparent                      and
                                                                            ;
I  cannot but sincerely wish, both for the advantage of the
public and individuals, that through the medium of your
                                                                        most

                    as a Substitute   for Hay       to Cattle.        121
most useful and respectable society it may come recom1
mended to them j which cannot fail of having considerable
effect.              I have the honour to be, sir,
                                            Your obedient servant,
   London,                                            J. C. CURWEN.
March is, 1803.
     To   Mr. Charles Taylor.
   P. S. When the potatoes are sufficiently done, being of
a heat equal to the steam, the distillation ceases, and the
steam comes through the cock. The condensed water from
the steam formed during the operation is allowed to run off,
affording     a   constant stream.
     The                 were confirmed by certificates from
           above statements
the bishop ot Landaff, and Arthur Young, esq.
Reference    to the Engraving of Mr. J. C. Curwen's Method
     of Steaming Potatoes for the Use of Cattle. Explana
     tion of Fig. I, or tlte Ground Plan. (Plate II.)
     A,    the well from whence the water is furnished to wash
the potatoes.
   B, the spout which conducts the said water to the reser
voir, where the potatoes are washed.
   C, theframe of the potatoe washer, and reservoir of water.
     D,  hollow wooden cylinder or barrel, hooped with iron,
          a
and perforated with oblong holes : it has a door at D, to
allow the potatoes to be put in or taken out ; it is of such
a size, that eleven stone of potatoes will fill about two-
thirds of     it,
                which quantity    will wash in two minutes
                                      it                               ;
it may be used six times, or wash sixty-six stone of pota
toes, before the water in the reservoir be changed.     When
the potatoes are taken out of the water, either pump upon
them, or throw       pail of water over them, and let
                        a                                drain   it
through them.
   E, the winch or handle, which works the washer                      by
means of      asmall pinion       F,
                                working in      larger toothed
                                                         a
wheel G, occasioning one revolution of the washer from
two of the handle, as shown more fully in the subsequent
plate.
   H, the conduit, through which the dirty water con             is
veyed away from the reservoir.
  I,   the circle in which the crane     moves from its centre
                                                K
at K, and in tracing which circle the washing cylinder,
w hen lifted from the water,     conveyed to the potatoe back
                                      is
or place of deposit L, which        raised from the floor the
                                           is
height of one of the tubs, or will meet one of them at the
                                                         other

1 22               On the Use of Steamed Potatoes,   &c.
other circle M, so as that the other crane N may convey
the tub from thence to one of the lead vessels O, on which
the potatoes arc steamed.
   P, the brick-work of the water boiler in which the steam
is formed.
  Q,  the grate on which the fire is made.
  R, the leaden steam pipe, one and a half inch diameter,
a branch  from which enters each of the vessels OOOO,
made of sheet lead, and on which vessels the tubs contain
ing the potatoes stand whilst steaming.
   SSSS, the cocks which let out the water condensed from
the steam, and impregnated with the juice of the potatoe.
   T, the conduit which conveys away the water.
   V, the frame-work or stillage, oh which the leaden ves
sels stand, about ten inches higher than the floor.
   U U, the stone troughs, in which the potatoes are bruised
after being steamed, and before they are given to the cattle.
                       Explanation of Fig. II.
  C,      the   back or reservoir of water, for cleansing      the po
tatoes.
   D, the wooden cylinder or barrel, which, by turning the
iron axis extending through       it,
                                  washes the potatoes contained
in the cylinder it   ;    here shown in the state ready to be
                          is
raised,      the crane and jack K, from the dirty water;
              by                                                    it
can be disengaged from the toothed wheel G,               by
                                                         jointed
                                                           a
notch between the head stocks at W.
    E, the winch handle.
  F,    the smaller pinion.
    G, the larger pinion on line with the axis of the cy
                                 a
linder.
    X,    awater-back or cistern above the boiler, supplied
from the pump Y,           the spout Z.
                          by
    N, crane and jack,
          a                      means of which the potatoes,
                                by
when washed, are conveyed to the steam vessels.
    No.     Ill,three of the wooden steam tubs, with perfo
rated bottoms, placed on the leaden steam vessels or cis
terns OOO.
  2    2, the boiler for the water formed of two iron pans,
screwed together         by
                         two flanges   each pan
                                        ;            in capacity
                                                     is
 forty gallons.
    R, the leaden pipe, which conducts the steam from the
boiler to the steam vessels.
  0    00 0, the four leaden steam vessels, each twelve
inches diameter, and nine inches dcepj one of them                     is
 shown separate from its wooden tub.
                                                                  3,    a

            Method   of adjusting Hadtey's Sextant.         123
   3, a cock which conveys the water by a pipe from the
reservoir to nearly the bottom of the boiler.
   4, a cock which stops the steam when the potatoe tubs
are taken off.
   5, a safety valve fixed upon the top of the boiler, loaded
with a weight of about four pounds to a square inch.
   6, a cock fixed in the side of the boiler to ascertain
when it contains a proper quantity of water.
   7, one of the potatoe tubs detached from its lead vessel :
it is two feet high, twenty inches wide at the top and se
venteen inches at the bottom ; it will hold eleven stone of
potatoes.    The boiler will steam sufficiently the four tubs
of potatoes in fifteen or twenty minutes time; and if the
whole arc not in use, the lead pipes of those not wanted
may be plugged up. Each tub and cover is held down by
four levers, and an iron ball at the end of each lever.
   When the potatoes are sufficiently boiled by the steam,
the crane N raises and removes the tubs from their places
to the stone troughs U U, a section of one of which is given :
the potatoes are there bruised for use.
XVIII. A demonstrable,      accurate, and at all Times prac
     ticable Method of adjusting Hadley's Sextant so as to
     render the Back Observation equally correct with the Fore
     Observation i and to measure an Angle of 150, 160, or
     1 70 Degrees, as accurately as one of 30, 40, or 50 De
     grees.   Communicated to the Astronomer Royal by Letter
     dated Sept. 28, 1803.    By the Rev. Michael Ward,
     of' Tamworth, Staffordshire.
AiAviNG several years used Hadley's octant
                               a                   by
                                                Dollond,
of the common construction, to compute the time from the
sun's double altitude, in order occasionally to examine the
rate of going of     gridiron pendulum clock,
                     a                           I   have often
lost number of observations from want of certain depend
      a
ence on angles above 90° the same inconvenience attended
                           :
all attempts at revising  a table of parallaxes of stars above
45° meridional altitude; and also all lunar distances above
90° required   more extensive instrument.
               a                               The one have,
                                                        I
however, being, from its tried accuracy,     a  great favourite,
it became more an object with me to invent some mode
of bringing this instrument to measure larger angles than
90° than to purchase      a more extensive one.       Flattering
 myself that  the  subjoined experiments and observations
                                                            will

 124               Method       of adjusting Hadlcy's Sextant.
will give, if not exactness,
                         at least a demonstrable deviation
                         feel myself happy if what I com
within 15 seconds, I shall
municate prove of service to others in its present state, or
may give rise to any new ideas of improvement in the in*
Strument itself.
   It is a known principle in optics, that the angle of re
flection is equal to the angle of incidence : hence the angle
formed by B and C in fig. l. (Plate III.) being greater than
a right angle B receiving a ray and transmitting it to C,
the consequence from the above principles            AD becomes        is,
greater  than   AE;    AE  being equal    to  the  distance   of the
reflecting points   in    and    Bin the     C
                                         second   figure,     and              B             C
forming     right angle,
              a              and   D coincide
                                      E        in the third figure                               ;
B  and     forming an angle less than right angle, AD be
              C                                              a
comes less than AE.
   Let us now suppose the eye placed behind G in fig. 4,
so as to observe or bring the point G upon A, and behind H
in the line I'll let the flame of         candle be placed;
                                                       a                                    it   is
evident that the ray HB from the flame will fall upon B,
be reflected to A, and be again reflected          A in the direc     by
tion AG, so as to be distinctly seen                         by
                                              the eye behind G.
   Unscrew the lever of the back observation glass, and,
turning       round, adjust
              it                like the fore observation glass
                                             it                                                  :
in this attempt        will be found necessary to remove the
                           it
sight -vane to     new situation, which may be done
                      a                                        glue                by
ing    small
         a     bed of wood on the side at       to hold    *.    Z           it
                                                                                   Having
     *   It
        may be useful here to remark, that       upwards of iooo altitudes
                                                        in
of   the sun, takenwith my instrument with the back observation glass,
turned as here described, and the sight-vane in       bit of wood fastened to
                                                                 a
the side, and all the opening of the back observation glass covered by
pasting paper over its surface, except   strip exactly as broad as the open
                                                  a
ing, and at right angles to       it,
                                 have found, upon taking any even number
                                      I
of double altitudes of the sun, with their correspondent times, that when
the average was found       always accorded
                            it                  time and altitude with the
                                                       in
middle places whereas, when       liave tried the fore observation glass in
                                        I
the same manner,     was frequently subject to deviation, and very seldom
                      it
would bear apportioning, when both occupied the middle of the eoluirm.
Let an example, taken yesterday, testify to what       assert.   I
 1804, February         X 14 IS        -           5»' «s"
                      3                               3 3
                    i
                           X                      -   + >         0                     *
                                 15
                                        1
                                                                      5°
                            x    15 40           34              6    4->
                                  Place of Average.
                            X    16 i+      -          3
                                                       +
                                                             1
                                                             1        3°
                            X    17     *         -    34        *J   30
                            X                     -           26
                                 17     39             34             30
                            6r   35     51
                                                  -   204.       57   55
                            X    ij     58        -    34        9    39 average
                                                                                        The

              Method     of adjusting Hadley's Sextant.                   125
    Having adjusted the back observation glass as for a fore
observation, draw a pencil line from its centre to the centre
of the hole in Z, and from the centre of the index glass let
fall a perpendicular LM : this line in my instrument is
6*33333 inches.
    Now GH being previously made equal to LM, and the
index set to zero on the limb, turn the back glass to' its
proper situation, and adjust it as nearly as you can.
    The line GH is now to be changed for the following ap
paratus : — In a scale of wood (fig. .¦>.) about five inches
broad, a foot long, and an inch thick, let there be a slit
made* two or three inches long, and not exceeding l-30th
of an inch in breadth : at 6*3333 inches from this slit let
a scale of inches divided into tenths begin both ways j let a
telescope, A, magnifying any number of times, from three
or four to thirty, be so contrived as to move nearer or
further from the slit by means of a screw, and also perpen
dicular to the plane of the scale ; let the telescope also carry
 an index corresponding to the centre of the cross hairs with
in it; opposite to the slit let there be a socket to hold a small
bit of candle. The whole will be easily comprehended by
inspecting fig. 5.
     Fix both instrument and apparatus on a plank, or in a
 box open at both ends, so that GM may, for a reason to
 be given below, be 176*88734 inches.
     If GK exceeds GH, the angle ACB is then more than
 a right angle, and the angle KBH is double the angle SCB,
 for SCA is drawn to represent a right angle.
     But if GK equals GH, the angle ACB is a right angle ;
 and K and H coinciding, the angle KBH vanishes of course ;
 SCB vanishes also, and coincides with the right angle
 SCA.
     But   if GK    is less than   GH,      so as that   K fall on P, then
 the angle    AGB       will fall within, or     be included in the right
 angle    ACS,      and   the  index    line  GB    will take an angular
 situation similar to that of the line C W, and the angle PB H
 will be double of the then angle S C W.
     The reason why KBH is double the angle SCB is : Sup
 pose a ray comes from G upon A, is thence reflected to B,
 the index glass B being set at more than a right angle to
 The   inference it, that by increasing the distance nf the two reflectors and
 the eye, and confining the observation to a square about one degree, or
 double the sun's diameter, in breadth, the accuracy is considerably in
  creased.
     * The slit falls behind the flame in the
                                                engraving.
                                                                         AC,

  126         Method   of adjusting Hadlcy's Sextant.
 AC, whatever excess in incidence A receives, the same
 excess in reflection also it transmits to G K ; of course,
 therefore,   KBH    is double  SCB.
    The    apparatus being thus explained, and the principles
 established, let us now apply them practically to measure
 the angle KBH.
    Let us first find the length of BH or GM.
    From the property of the circle it is evident, that if the
 radius be 57*29578 inches, the sine of one degre will be
one inch, and the sine and tangent of angles lesse than ten
minutes have no discernible difference : therefore the sine
 may be used for the tangent: therefore 343-77468 inches
 radius will give six inches for one degree.
    Now, six inches being divisible into sixty tenths, one-
tenth of an inch will correspond to one minute : but, as
has been already observed, the angle KBH. will measure
double the angle    SBC;     therefore half the radius with the
same six inches sine, will measure out the minutes of the
angle SBC at one-tenth of an inch for each minute.
    Then 176-88734 inches must be the length of         BH   or
GM.
    If this length be doubled, then each tenth will measure
 thirty seconds.
    If tripled, the divisions will be twenty seconds each,
&c. &c.
    Having placed the instrument, and directed the telescope
along the line GM to A, light the candle and look for its
 reflection through the slit, and you will find three, five, or
seven lines of light, but the middle one the brightest ; bring
that into the centre of the telescope by screwing the tele
scope nearer to or further from the slit, as occasion may re
quire : then note at what division the index on the telescope
stands : suppose it at 4£ of the divisions to the right, the
instrument will measure all angles by back observation
4' 15" too much, yet subject to the laws of the back obser
vation in the common way: thus an angle of 42° 52' 30" so
taken, must be diminished to 42° 48' 15", and this taken
from 180° leaves 137° 11' 45", the true angle : and so in
other cases.
    If this mode be not approved of, another, perhaps as ac
curate, may be tried. Set the index of the telescope to O
on the scale of the apparatus, and the index of the instru
ment at 0 on the limb; then move the index of the instru
ment along the limb till the middle bright light occupies
the centre of the telescope as before; and the angle of devia-
           3                                              lion.

     Utility of Oxygenated Muriatic Acid in Scarlet Fever.          127
tion, if to the left, must be subtracted, if to the right, added :
thus 4' 15" in the example just given being to the right,
must be added.
   Many more, and perhaps useful observations, might be
given, and a mode of setting both glasses perpendicular to
the plane of the instrument Dy the use of the above appa
ratus ; but I fear 1 have already exceeded the limits allowed
to communications in a monthly publication, and shall
therefore add no more —except to say, it will give me much
pleasure to find the present communication considered as
useful.
      February,   14., 1804.
XIX.       On the Utility of the Oxygenated Muriatic Acid in
      the Cure of Scarlet Fever ; with an easy Mode
                                                     of pre
      paring it for Medical Purposes.  By Mr. John Ayrey
      Brathwaite, Member of the Royal College of Sur-
.     geons in London, and Surgeon to the Lancaster Di
      spensary    *.
    .Having     frequently experienced the inefficacy of the com
    mon mode of medical practice in the Scarlatina anginosa,
    I have been induced to make some inquiries into theiiature,
    cause, and treatment of that disease, which has been pre
    valent in this town and neighbourhood for three years last
    past.   The result of my observations has been the disco
    very of a remedy in this disease, which is as much entitled
    to infallibility, as mercury in the lues, or bark in the ague :
    it is easily prepared, by any apothecary, of materials with
    which his shop       is,
                         or ought to be, always supplied and re ;
    quires no complex pharmaceutical apparatus with which
    those unaccustomed to practical chemistry are often liable,
    even from proper materials, to prepare chemical prepara
    tions totally different in their properties from those in
    tended.
       As have no doubt but the contagion of the scarlet fever
        I
    produces an extraordinary degree of disoxygenation of the
    system, with great debility, and exhaustion of the sensorial
    power;    was led to suppose that oxygen, exhibited in some
              1
    easy and pleasant manner, might not only destroy the con
    tagious matter adhering to the tonsils, uvula, &c, but, by
    penetrating the fine moist membrane of the lungs, and by
    chemical attraction uniting with the blood, excite the action
                        *
                            Communicated   by   t^e   Author.
                                                                     of

 158             Utility of the Oxygenated Muriatic Acid
  of the arterial system, warming the extremities, increasing
  insensible perspiration, exhilarating the spirits, and, invi
 gorating the vital principle without exhausting               it,
                                                               would
 prove    an  efficacious  remedy   in this but  too  fatal  disease.
 This have experienced in the oxygenated muriatic acid,
       I
 whose known property of destroying putrid miasms, and
               infection, in    gaseous state, has totally abo-
                                  a
 fireventing
   ished the absurd farragos of antient practice.
     Variolous and vaccine virus, exposed but for           moment
                                                               a
 to the vapour of oxygenated muriatic, acid, lose their con
 tagious properties      and the latter, rubbed with one-eighth
                          ;
 of grain of oxide of iron (rubigo Jerri), will rarely com
     a
 municate the disease       what then may we not expect from
                              :
 this active    and  elegant preparation    elegant
                                                 !      may justly
                                                          I
 entitle     as, when properly prepared and sufficiently diluted,
           it,
it   may be administered to patients of all ages, being          safea
 and efficacious remedy, possessed of slight degree of grate
                                                 a
 ful acidity.
     When called to patient,
                          a          whatever stage of the scarlet
                                       in
 fever, my practice for two years last past has uniformly
 been as follows — One dram of oxvgenatcd muriatic acid
                     ;                                                         is
mixed with eight ounces of distilled water in vial, and    a
 shaken together this quantity should be taken every twelve
                      :
hours     by   patient from fourteen to twenty years of age
               a                                                               ;
but  it    preferable to administer
          is                            in draughts divided from
                                            it
the quantity above mentioned into §ij, Jiss, 3j, and 3ss
 bottles, as the patient's age and situation require, ordering
them to be taken at such periods as for an adult to consume
the quantity in the time mentioned, and to younger pa
tients smaller doses, as half      dram or two scruples of the
                                       a
acid to eight ounces of water. By this method the oxygen,
gas  is  not separated and lost each time the vial      opened, as
                                                          is
may easily be perceived           by
                               its smell in the apartment.               T.t   is
also absolutely necessary the medicine be placed in             dark
                                                                   a
situation, wrapped in paper, to prevent the disoxygenating
influence of light.
     Since the use of this medicine     have never had recourse
                                            I
to emetics, purgatives, blisters, or diaphoretics         ; regular
                                                               a
perseverance in the oxygenant remedy has universally suc
ceeded, my patients rapidly recovering, and being seldom
afflicted with those complaints succeeding the scarlet fever,
such as pain of the joints, paucity of urine, and universal
anasarcous swellings.      Even should these follow,        recom
                                                               I
mend     a continuance of the medicine until these symptoms
entirely disappear, which will be found much earlier than
by   the usual mode of treatment. Indeed,            if
                                                  the oxygenated
                                                      preparation

                     in the Cure        of Scarlet Fever.                             1 29
preparation is duly persevered in, I am of opinion those pain
ful and distressing affections will rarely occur.              It is also
possessed    of  this   desirable   property,   that  it may be easily
taken by children, who generally are the most numerous
patients in this disease, and to whom all medicines are ad
ministered with difficulty ; I have frequently heard them cry
for that stuff which mended their throat, as they expressed
it : indeed in that respect its effects are truly admirable, far
iurpassing the disagreeable practice of gargling and syrin
ging, which in numerous instances, even if possible to do                              it,
is productive of mischief.        How far superior then must be
a   remedy    which,        bypassing over the infected and fre
quently   ulcerated    part immediately, not only gives instan
taneous relief, but entirely removes that fetid smell origi
nating in severe cases from these parts            Patients often wish
                                                        !
to be frequently sipping           little of the oxygenant liquid
                                    a                                                   :
which    is  not improper; but           must always be done out of
                                            it
a  wine glass, as admeasurement with              spoon a    dangerous,is
the oxygen rapidly oxidating the metal of which                     com     it   is
posed, and     by   that means conveying into the stomach                               a
poisonous fluid, from which death might ensue.
    The muriatic acid has long been used as medicine, and sira
William Fordyce strongly recommended in the ulcerated        it
sore throat and putrid fever            but the oxygenated muriatic
                                        ;
acid has, I    believe, been rarely employed.          Dr. Crawford *
once took twenty drops of               it,
                                       diluted with water but soon      ;
afterwards found an obtuse pain, with               sensation of con
                                                         a
striction in the stomach ana bowels this uneasiness, not
                                                    :
withstanding the use of emetics and purgatives, lasted for
several days, and was at last removed             drinking water im
                                                        by
pregnated with sulphureous hepatic air             this effect he attri
                                                        :
butes to the manganese, which had been used in the distilla
tion of the acid, containing         portion of lead.
                                        a                  should rather
                                                                 I
suppose   it  proceeded from the dose of twenty drops being
taken. Oxygenated muriatic acid readily gives to living ani
mal bodies its superoxygen, and the remains                     common  is
muriatic acid   ;   a dose of which similar to the above would
undoubtedly, in delicate constitutions, produce similar ef
fects.   In no case whatever have found          I          necessary to
                                                                  it
exceed the quantity before mentioned, but                has sometimes
                                                             it
been done      by  my patients through an anxious desire to get
well :  the same uneasiness         has, however, been produced
which Dr. Crawford experienced, though the preparation
               •
                    Philosophical   Transactions,       vol. Ixxx.
    Vol. XVIII.       No.   70.          I                                            was

1 30   Utility of Oxygenated Muriatic Acid in Scarlet Fever.
was made       so as not possibly to contain either lead or any
other metallic substance.
    To prepare the oxygenated muriatic acid in a perfect state
of purity, put two ounces, by measure, of dist.lled water
into a narrow tubulated bottle with a ground glass stopple;
into this gradually pour, by measure also, as much muriatic
acid, the specific gravity or which is as 1 1 70 to 1000 of di
stilled water, frequently shaking the vial ; add then to it
two drams of Qxymuriate of potash *, which in a little time
will ia.ll to the bottom, the acid seizing the small portion of
alkali, and liberating beautiful globules of vital air, which
slowly rise towards the surface, diminishing as they ascend,
supcroxvgenating the acid : a little agitation now and then
facilitates the process, but it will be three or four days be
fore the acid becomes hyperoxygenated : the stopple should
be put loosely into the vial and tied over with a piece
rjf bladder, but not too tight, allowing it to move when
the gas is rapidly extricated. This process should be per
formed in a dark situation, and the oxygenant medicine
be after preserved, by putting over the bottle a circular piece
of pasteboard, to prevent it from being injured by the de-
oxvgcnating power of light.
    It is not in scarlet fever only that this preparation pro
mises to be of advantage ; I have found it useful in angina
maligna and other diseases proceeding from or producing a
deoxygenation of the blood : in many lingering cases of the
late influenza it was exhibited with evident advantage, in
the doses above mentioned.
    From the trials made by Guyton Morveau and others,
it appears that the oxygenated muriatic acid in a gaseous
form possesses the power of neutralizing and destroying
 contagious miasmata, even in rooms where the sick are
present, without the slightest inconvenience.                  Possessed of
 amazing     expansibility,    this  gaseous     oxygenant    diffuses  itself
 over the most extensive apartments, leaving nothing un
 touched, and touching nothing it does not appropriate;
rapidly oxidating metallic bodies, particularly iron and steel,
 (which should be removed,) and radically destroying the
most offensive odours, thereby rendering innocuous perhaps
 deadly contagious poisons.
    To completely purify any apartment, where a patient suf
 fers in the scarlet fever or any other contagious disease, so
   * The   best oxyirmriate of  potash   f ever had, was made by Mr. Hoyle,
an ingenious chemist in Manchester     ;  loo grains yielding nearly 74. cubic
inches of oxygen gas.
                                                                            as

            Galvanic Experiments on Men and Animals.           131
 as to  render it perfectly safe not only to the attendants but
 to the rest of the. family, take a cnina teacup and saucer,
 put into the cup two ounces of common salt and half an
 ounce of the black oxide of manganese, previously pow
 dered, with one ounce of water ; then take an ounce and
 half of sulphuric acid, and pour a little of it now and then
 into the teacup among the other ingredients : immediately
 an amazing quantity of oxygenated muriatic acid gas will
 be disengaged,      and diffused through the apartment : this
 should be suffered to remain only a few minutes, removing
it out of the room into the staircase ; by which means the
whole house will become impregnated with this gaseous
 oxygenant : it will be proper to take it into the room fre
 quently during the day, adding to it a little fresh sulphuric
acid, and then replacing it in its former situation.
    It was my intention to have transmitted a more minute
account of the scarlet fever, and its mode of treatment by
 this oxygenant remedy, illustrated with cases; but suffering
 at present under an arthritic complaint, I found myself in
adequate to the undertaking : perhaps at some future period
I may again take up the pen to corroborate what I have as
serted : should this, however, be the means of rescuing one
individual from a premature grave, the intention of the writer
will in some degree be accomplished.
    Lancaster,
March    i, 104.
XX.     Report   of Galvanic Experiments made on Men and
    Animals.      Read to the Glass of the Exact Sciences of
    the Academy of Turin by C. Rossi *.
        I.  Experiments on Rabbits suffocated in Water.
   Thermometer 7°tj barometer 27 inches; pile 25 disks.
.Having        cut off the hair from the nape of the neck and
the stomach of a rabbit, I suffocated it in a pail of water,
and, as it gave no apparent signs of life, I galvanized it for
twenty minutes : but in vain, as it was really dead.        I did
the same thing to another, which I drew sooner from the
water, that is to say, while it still exhibited signs of life;
but I was not able to save it by means of galvanism.
      * From the
                  Journal de Physique, Vend. an. 11.
      + Wc suppose Reaumur's is meant := 44/6 Fahr.— Edit.
                                  I 2                    A third,

J32                      Galvanic Experiments
    A third, being taken sooner from the water, was saved;
though it had already experienced a convulsive cough, and
in all probability would have died without the assistance of
the pile. This convulsive cough gave me reason to suspect
that a small quantity of water had penetrated through the
larynx and the trachea into the bronchiae and pulmonary
vesicles, which prevented inspiration and expiration, like
an organic defect, or as an obstacle to these functions,
while it causes the glottis also to remain shut in asphyxias
of this kind *. It is for this reason that the application of
galvanism is in general ineffectual in such cases, if an arti
ficial aperture be not previously made in the trachea to admit
air, which, as a stimulant proper to the lungs, by exciting
a cough, may cause the small quantity of water lodged in
these cavities to be thrown up.          If the animal be then gal
vanized as above, it may be recalled to life with greater cer
tainty, provided the excitability of the heart and lungs be
not absolutely destroyed, as I have mentioned in the article
of Bronchotomy, in my Treatise of Chirurgical Operations.
    To satisfy myself on this point, I suffocated a fourth rab
bit in the same medium, and, having examined the state of
the aerian passages, I discovered that the glottis was shut
by a spasmodic falling down of the epiglottis; the trachea
and the bronchiae were empty; but in the pulmonary vesi
cles I found a small quantity of water, sufficient in this case
to oppose the return of the pulmonary functions, unless an
artificial passage be opened as already remarked : this quan
tity of water was indeed so small that it would not have
been capable to produce any derangement in the above ve
sicles, had the atmospheric air been at liberty to exercise an
action on the exterior surface of the breast.
    To assure myself of these principles I suffocated a fifth
rabbit, prepared like the rest, immersing in the water the
head and shoulders only.            After struggling some time, it
suddenly ceased to move; on which I galvanized it for ten
minutes ; when it recovered.
    It is my duty to state, that in the first the water had pe
netrated the pulmonary vesicles ; and when this is the case
it is needless to turn down the animal's head, as some have
proposed : in the last, the small quantity of water which
entered by incomplete inspiration had not gone beyond the
commencement of the bronchiae.
   *  I  am not ignorant of what has been done by Troja and other phy
sicians.
                                                          II.  Expe-

                 made on    Men and Animals.                           133
 II.   Experiments on Rabbits suffocated in Sulphurated
             Hydrogen and Carbonic Acid Gas.
 Thermometer     8°*; barometer          27 inches;    pile 25 disks.
    It is much easier to recall animal lifei in these cases of
asphyxia, because there is no mechanical obstacle to the
functions of the respiratory organs, and as the glottis gene
rally remains open. Having prepared a rabbit, and suffo
cated it in sulphurated hydrogen gas, (a mode which occa
sions no agitation in the animal as water does, because it
first renders the nervous system torpid, and then extin
guishes the property of transmitting the animal fluid ca
pable of exciting the animal and of preserving it in life,) in
three minutes after apparent death I galvanized             it,
                                                           forming
the circle as before mentioned during three minutes, and
observed movements either in the feet or at the stomach.
These movements increasing          by the continued action of the
                                                                             '
fluid of the pile for eight minutes more, effected        return of
                                                            a
respiration   and  of life at the same    time   but
                                                  ;  the animal re
mained apoplectic.        To bring the animal from this state,         I
applied galvanism, with great precaution, to the external
part of the nostrils, and at the same time made               drink
                                                                  it
vinegar.     By these means the functions of the external
senses returned twenty-three minutes after suffocation, but
it  remained stupid for four hours.
 I    must here observe, that       I   had before suffocated two
others on which galvanism produced no effect, probably
because  it  was too late.
     Another rabbit, prepared and suffocated          carbonic acid
                                                       in
gas as the preceding, was subjected to galvanism for eigh
 teen minutes, but without success.             Finding that there
were no hopes of recalling     it  to life, I formed the resolution
 of opening the cavity of the breast and the pericardium.              I
 then galvanized the diaphragm, forming the circle between
it   and the spinal marrow; and though the contractions of
 that muscle were sufficient to excite some movement in
 the heart, they were not able to maintain           for any length
                                                      it
 of time. I    then applied the galvanic circle to the nerves of
 the heart, and to the heart itself:         itwas now twenty-six
 minutes after suffocation, contractions were manifested in
 the above organ, and in consequence of the galvanism were
  repeated at intervals, and continued to forty-six minutes.
I   then directed the action of the galvanism to the muscles
                    *               =
                        8° Reaum.        46-4 Fahr.
                              I     3                                   of

134                 .   Galvanic Experiments
of   the extremities, which gave contractions till fifty-eight
minutes ; when all motion ceased.
    I repeated the same experiment on a similar animal,
taking care not to bei^in till eighteen minutes after : it was
preserved from death, but remained apoplectic for nine
 hours.     At this period it was completely restored'by swal
lowing a little vinegar. I then suffocated a third in the-
 same gas ; and after galvanizing it for sixteen minutes
 without hopes of reviving          it,
                                      I   electrified     positively, and
                                                         it
 also applied galvanism.        I   immediately observed, with sur
prise, distinct pulsations of the heart, and at the same time
some respiration, for about eleven minutes; but these move
ments ceased at the end of eighteen minutes, after which              it
was really dead.         From this tact        would appear that some
                                               it
doubts might be entertained in regard to the different nature
of these two fluids that;       is    to say, vitreous electricity, and
that of the pile.   I     do not, however, see that their nature       is
essentially different.      I   rather observe      difference of condi
                                                     a
tion between them, and particularly in their manner of
acting on animals       ;  for an animal electrified positively when
    still retains      certain power to animalize the electricity,
is it
                   a
    put into  a   stale capable of supporting            astronger exci
tant, such as the fluid of the pile, which                   also electric
                                                               is
but differently modified, which being applied to animals
the organs of which are already deprived in               a
                                                           great measure
'f  the property of feeling the stimulant, on which they can
not, as we niav sav, re-act, must be considered as capable
of speedilv annihilating the little vitality still existing in the
same organs, unless applied with great circumspection.                It
inav therefore be laid down as general principle, that when
                                          a
excitability  is  accumulated       it may always be employed with
advantage;      that   when   real   indirect  debility exists, recourse
must be had to     it   with caution, and          must be applied only
                                                    it
 by  degrees ;   and,   lastly,  that     if
                                           the  patient     asthenic, the
                                                              is
use of  it  may   become     fatal.
    To throw more light on this difficult point in regard tp
the application of galvanism,             I shall resume other experi
ments, which will form the subject of another memoir,
containing   a   detail of several cures obtained             by
                                                            means of the
above fluid, and among others of partial palsies, and of               a
case of hvdrophobia, which C. Vassalli-Eandi has already
announced in his letter to C. Rossi.              You will observe that
the above-mentioned experiments, as far as concerns the
duration of vitality in regard to galvanism, do not exactly
correspond    in   all animals which proves that the vitality of
                                ;
                                                                 animals,

                 mtide on   Men and Animals.                   135
animals, whether warm or cold blooded, is not equal in all,
though in general the products are equal.
III.  Experiments    made   on a   Man decapitated   on the   \8th
                           of January.
Thermometer     6i0*; barometer     27 inches;   pile 50 disks:
                  solution, muriate of soda.
   A robust man, aged thirty, was decapitated at forty-six
minutes after eleven, on the 18th of January. -The body
was immediately conveyed to the hospital of St. John,
where it arrived at fifty-nine minutes after eleven.          The
thermometer was at 7°, and the barometer at 27 inches :
the pile was composed of fifty pairs of disks, and the paste
board was moistened with a solution of muriate of soda.
The series of experiments were immediately begun.
   The first was to excite the diaphragm without applying
an armature to the spinal marrow, as is generally done.
Having applied the conductor of the positive part to the
spinal marrow, and that of the negative to the pit of the
stomach, previously moistened with the solution of muriate
of soda, the movements excited in the diaphragm were very
strong, and those of the heart were no less so.       The lungs
performed several expirations, charged with vapours which
at each expiration covered with aqueous drops the surface
of a glass plate even when the conductors were no longer
applied. The movements of the heart, which had been ex
cited by those of the diaphragm, continued for three mi
nutes, and were distinctly felt on applying the hand to that
region.
   Eighteen minutes after decapitation the cavity of the
thorax was opened, and the diaphragm was then irritated
with the point of a scalpel : the movements were sufficiently
strong to excite also the heart ; but the movements of the
latter could not be preserved by that stimulus as they
were by the pile, even when the conductors were no
longer in contact with the before-mentioned parts. I then
applied, as before, the conductors to the spinal marrow and
the diaphragm, and the contractions excited were so strong
that the heart was put in motion for five minutes.
   Having removed the left lung to uncover the thoracic
aorta, 1 applied the conductor or the positive part to the
heart, and that of the negative to the aorta.        The move
ments of the former were very brisk, and were exceedingly
                  *
                    6-5 ofkeamn. =43-7 Fahr.
                               I 4                       striking

 1 36                     Galvanic Experiments
 striking in the aorta.     At twenty-three minutes after deca
 pitation I cut the thoracic aorta near its passage into the
 diaphragm, and it was taken from the thorax, with the
 heart, and insulated on a plate of glass.          1 insulated also a
 portion of the anterior straight muscle of the left leg, and
 at thirty minutes alter decapitation I began to irritate the
 heart with the scalpel ; but the contractions were very
 feeble : those of the straight muscle, excited with the same
 stimulant, were much stronger; but it was not possible to
 produce the least effect on the aorta.
    Thirty-four minutes after decapitation I made use of the
 pile : it excited pretty strong contractions in the heart, still
stronger in the straight muscle, and a few faint contractions
in the aorta, which soon ceased entirely.             I continued the
experiment,      sometimes   irritating the   heart   and the muscle
with the scalpel, and sometimes with the fluid of the pile,
till fifty minutes, when the movements of the heart disap-
  eared altogether, while those of the muscle were still visi
E le bv means of the scalpel, and very strong by means of
the pile.
    I opened the cavities of the heart, that is to say, the ven
tricles and auricles : the scalpel produced no effect, the pile
alone w.is capable of exciting some faint movements in the
ventricle and right auricle. At this period, that          is,at fifty-
six minutes after decapitation, the scalpel still produced
some effects   in   the insulated straight muscle; but the pile
excited         very strong contractions, which continued till
          in
          it
an hour and eighteen minutes           ;after which they entirely
ceased.
  I    then turned my observations to the muscles of the ex
 tremities left in  their place   :in these the scalpel occasioned
 sensible contractions, which increased very much in strength
 by   means of the pile       they still continued one hour and
                              :
 fifty-three minutes, at which time         I left off my experi
ments.
     These results are perfectly analogous to those which          I
communicated to the class              regard to dogs which had
                                      in
been decapitated     ;   is therefore needless to repeat the con
                         it
sequences which ought to be deduced from them. Besides,
they will be found in the memoirs, which,             by decree of
                                                           a
the academv, will be inserted in the volume now in the
press.    I shall only observe, that       the theory of Crawford
                                           if
and Lavoisier on animal heat          the most correct of any yet
                                      is
formed on that subject, and           the assertion of Humboldt
                                      if
on the property which he ascribes to oxvgen, of nourishing
vitality, be true; these experiments will oblige us to con
                                                            clude

                        made on   Men and jdnimals.                         137
elude that the blood of the vena: cava: deposited in the right
auricle, though surcharged with carbon, has not power to
destroy vitality, like the blood in the pulmonary veins,
which, according to the received doctrine of animal heat,
is charged with the recent product ol respiration, and which
is afterwards deposited in the left auricle.       In this case,
Haller, and all those who believe that carbon is the de
stroyer of vitality, would be wrong, or the said theory
must be defective. For the left auricle, which during the
life of animals that respire, and which have the heart di
vided into four cavities, is in contact with the blood, charged
with the products resulting from respiration, is of all the
cavities of the heart that which loses vitality soonest, —
though, according to Humboldt, oxygen is the nourish
ment of vitality ; while the right auricle, which is the last
to lose     it,   is,
               during the life of these animals, forced to re
ceive the blood surcharged with carbon.
 IV.    Galvanic Experiments made on                    a   Man    decapitated
                              January       tiie 22^.
Thermometer G\°     barometer 27 inches                          pile 50 disks:
                         *   ;                               ;
               solution, muriate of soda.
  A   young man, thirty years of age, stout and robust, was
decapitated on the 22d of January at noon.      The body was
transported to the anatomical theatre of the hospital of St.
John, where arrived at six minutes after noon. The per
                   it
sons present were, Vassalli-Eandi       and mvself, professor
Anselmi, Geri, Giorcelli, and Massi, members of the col
lege of surgery, the chief of the gendarmerie of the 27th
division, and several others.      As soon as      arrived, the  it
experiments were begun.
    The object of the first experiment was to excite the dia
phragm.      The conductor ol the positive part was applied to
the spinal marrow, where        was cut, and that of the ne
                                       it
gative to the pit of the stomach very strong expirations
                                                 :
were immediately produced, and the glass plate was co
vered with vapour.       The heart was put in motion, and
was still     that state when the cavity of the thorax was
             in
opened to excite        the mechanical stimulus of t,he scalpel
                        it   by                                                  $
and    bythese means also    experienced contractions. Those
                                  it
excited at the commencement of the experiment, and which
had already decreased, were renewed.        The pile was then
employed as before, and the diaphragm exhibited contrac
 tions so strong, that they made those of the heart four times
                         *
                             6-5 Rcaum.     =   43*7 Fahr.
                                                                                 M

 138                   Galvanic Experiments
as   strong as they had been when excited by the Stimulus
of  the pile: thev continued till fourteen minutes, though
those of the diaphragm had ceased.
   I then removed the left lung to uncover the thoracic aorta,
and at seventeen minutes we applied the conductors to the
heart and the aorta near the diaphragm : the contractions
of the former were very strong, while those of the aorta
were such that they approached the heart, where the con
ductor of the negative part was applied.  Vassalli-Eandi,
who measured       them with his decimetre, found that the
 shortening of the aorta was a millimetre.            Immediately
 after, I cut the aorta transversely near its insertion in the
 diaphragm ; and, having repeated the experiment as above,
 the shortening at twenty-one minutes after decapitation was
 about two millimetres.       At twenty-four minutes the heart
 was insulated with a part of the aorta on a glass plate.         A
 portion of the aorta a decimetre in length was also insulated
 on the same plate with a part of the same length of the sar
 torius muscle, while an assistant uncovered the muscular
 tunic in a determinate place of the small intestines. Every
 thing was ready at the twenty-sixth minute, and the expe
 riments were begun by irritating all these parts with the
 point of the scalpel.
    The. results were as follow: — I st, The heart, with the
 small part of the aorta still attached to     it, gave moderate
 contractions, while the separated portion made only some
 faint movements  ;    but those in the sartorius muscle were
 very strong.    2d,   The conductor of the positive part being
 applied  to the small  portion of the aorta still attached to the
 heart, and that of the negative to the apex of the heart,
 produced movements of systole and diastole much stronger
m all the four cavities, and even in the continued part of
the aorta, which shortened about a millimetre.          The sepa
rated portion of this aorta, the two conductors being applied
to the two ends, gave contractions, or rather became short
ened about    a   millimetre.     The portion of the sartorius
muscle exhibited   a   shortening of fifteen millimetres.
 I    then applied the conductor of the positive part to the
spinal marrow of the neck, and that of the negative to the
place of the muscular tunic, which had been freed from its
peritoneal covering, on which the movement of the intes
tines was peristaltic  ; and when the conductor of the nega
tive part was introduced into the anus, the contrary motion
took place. Thirty-four minutes alter decapitaiion the parts
were left at rest till the thirty-sixth minute, and   in  that in
terval I uncovered the anterior straight muscle of the left leg ;
                                                              after

                     made on   Men and Animals.    •
                                                                139
after which we repeated, with the stimulus of the scalpel, the
experiment before described.        The results were : 1st, Some
visible movements in the ventricles of the heart and the left
auricle, more visible in the right, but none in the separated
portion of the aorta.        In the portion of the sartorius muscle
we observed very strong contractions, as well as in the in
testines, and very strong contractions in the straight muscle
of the leg. 2d, With the pile we excited movements of
systole and diastole very sensible in the four cavities of the
heart, but still more sensible in the right auricle, and with
out any appearance in the portion ot the aorta.              We re
marked a shortening of twelve millimetres in the portion of
the sartorius muscle : the movements of the intestines were
pretty strong, and those of the Straight muscle of the leg
very strong.        At forty minutes the experiment was sus
pended     till the forty-fifth. After this term, having resumed
it as before, the results we obtained were as follow : —The
scalpel exercised scarcely any action on the left ventricle,
and none in the left auricle. There were pretty apparent
movements in the right ventricle, and still more apparent
in the right auricle : we found that those of the portion
of the sartorius muscle were two millimetres: none were
excited in the intestines, but there were very strong move
ments in the straight muscle.          2d, On the other hand, we
 obtained by the pile very faint movements in the left ven
 tricle and auricle, more apparent in the right ventricle, and
 still stronger in the right auricle.        Those observed in the
 portion of the sartorius muscle were ten millimetres, and
very visible ones were perceived           in the intestines; very
strong in the before-mentioned anterior straight muscle. At
 fifty minutes af'er decapitation all the parts were left at rest
 till fifty-three minutes. During this interval I uncovered
 and cut transversely        the sartorius muscle, and we then
 repeated the experiment as before. The results we had with
the scalpel were as follow :
     1st, The left ventricle and auricle gave no marks of sen
 sibility ; those exhibited by the right ventricle were scarcely
 perceptible, while the right auricle gave very strong move
 ments : those of the portion of the sartorius muscle were
three millimetres. The intestines were not irritated, but the
 straight muscle and the two parts of the left sartorius gave
 very strong contractions.        2d, By making use of the pile,
 the left ventricle exhibited only very slight movements, and
 none were produced in the auricle of the same side.           The
 movements in the right ventricle were more apparent, and
 still greater in the auricle of the same side.      In the portion
                                                                  of

  140               Stale of His Majesty's Flock
  of   the sartorius they were six millimetres.         The contrac
  tions of the straight muscle were very strong, and they were
  nine millimetres in the two portions of the straight sartorius,
  which was attached to the respective points. Fifty-nine
 minutes had elapsed after decapitation, and the experiments
  were continued on the same parts ; and it was not till an
  hour and twenty-three minutes that they were abandoned.
  I shall not give any detail respecting them, because they
 were made in the same manner as the preceding. The re
 sults, however, were as follow : — The aorta first ceased to
 exhibit contractions which were excited by means of the
 two stimuli before mentioned ; the other parts ceased their
 movements in this order : the intestines, then the left cavi
 ties of the heart ; the right ventricle and the right auricle
 the last : after the right auricle, the insulated portion of the
 sartorius muscle, while the muscles in their places still ex
 hibited very strong contractions.        It was then thought use
 less to   continue the experiments,    since    it was proved that
 the voluntary    muscles were  the  last  to lose  their movement.
 XXI. A Report of the     State of His Majesty's Flock of Fine-
     woolled Spanish Slwep during llie Years 1800 ana 1801 ;
    with some Account of the Progress that has been made
     towards the Introduction of that valuable Breed into those
     Parts of the United Kingdom urfiere fine Clothing IFbols
    are grown with Advantage.
 On      the 9th of June 1800, when his majesty's Spanish
flock was shorn, it consisted of 100 ewes and wethers,
which produced as follows :
        Wool washed on the sheeps' back            -     398 lb.
        Loss in scouring         -          -      -     104
        Amount of scoured wool              -      -     294
    Which produced, when sorted,
             Prime    234lb. at 5s. per lb. ~\
             Choice 34,                         V 651.11s.
                                              J
                              at 3s.
             Fribbs 26,      at Is. 6d.
    Eight rams and nine ewes were this year disposed of,
which were all that could be spared from the flock.              Two
of the rams went into Dorsetshire, where the breed is much
approved by some skilful judges of sheep, and seems likely
to produce considerable advantage by crossing with the
common sheep of the country.
                                                                 Mr.

             of Flne-woolled Spanish Sheep.                 141
  Mr. Bridge, of Winford Eagle, communicated this           year
the result of an experiment he liad made on three kinds of
sheep ; viz. Dorset, half Spanish and half Dorset, and half
Spanish and half Mendip.
   He kept these sheep from the year 1 798, when they were
lambed, till February 1 800, when they were butchered as
fat sheep; and having valued them in June 1798, he found
the carcases of each sort, with two years wool which had
been shorn from them, to yield at that time the following
increase in value :
       Real Dorset    -     -             -   4l. 5s. 6d.
       Half Spanish half Dorset               4    3   8
       Half Spanish half Mendip           -   3   19   2
   In these experiments Mr. Bridge's woolstapler values the
Dorset wool at Is. 2id. a pound, and the half Spanish
wool at is. 4id. only; but as theSpanish cross in both cases
increased the quantity of wool, and as half Spanish wool
has never, when its value was properly known, been sold
for less than Is. 9d. and generally more than 2s. a pound,
there can be no doubt that the improvement in value, arising
from the cross, is in both cases considerable.
   Mr. J. Ridgeway, of Upperton, in the parish of Yazor,
in Herefordshire, communicated an experiment, in which
two sheep, the one a Ryeland and the other half Spanish
and half Ryeland, of equal weights, were fed by him toge
ther : the half Spanish sheep produced in a year 2 lb. 12oz.
more wool and 5 lb. more mutton than the Ryelander.
This gentleman, whom his majesty graciously permitted to
have rams from the Spanish flock some years ago, has' also
 shown by his accounts that the wool of his flock, of about
 16 score sheep, has been so much increased both in quan
tity and in value by the Spanish cross, as to have produced
nearly twice as much money for each clip after the Spanish
blood was established in  it, as itusually did before.
    In June 1801, the Spanish flock consisted of 108 ewes
and wethers,
Which produced in wool, washed on the sheeps' back, 397 lb.
 Loss in scouring         -          -        -        112
Amount of scoured wool               -        -        285
   Which produced, when sorted,
           Prime   237lb. at 5s. d. per lb. "\
                                  6
           Choice   31,     at 3s. 6d.           72l. Is. 9d.
                                                   >
           Fribbs    17,    at Is.  d.9       J
   The wool of   the rains and   fatting wethers, which had
          2                                                 been

  142              State   of His Majesty's Flock
 been kept separate, was prepared for sale at the same time,
  and produced in
          Wool on the sheeps' back           -     220lb.
          Loss in scouring                          82
          Amount of scoured wool             -     138
    Which produced, when         sorted,
               Prime    g.6lb. at 5s. per
                                            lb.")
                                                V 30l. 6s.
                                               J
               Choice 30,        at 3s. 6d.
               Fribbs 12,        at Is. 9<1-
    This year, eight rams and twenty-two ewes were sold.
 If the foot rot had not unfortunately damaged the rams very
 materially, more of them would have been disposed of.           It
 is however observable,       that although the rams that are
 kept at Windsor in rich land are occasionally attacked by
 this harassing disease, the ewes and wethers that feed on
the dry and hilly pastures of Oatlands have never been sub
ject to lameness of any kind.
    Eleven wethers that had been sent to the marshes in
order to try the effect of rich pasture in fattening sheep of
this breed, were slaughtered this year by Mr. King, of
Newgate Market, previous to the Smithfield meeting,
which usually takes place the week before Christmas.
Two of the carcases were given to persons who had been
useful in ascertaining the value of the Spanish breed ; the
 remaining nine were sold to Mr. Giblet, butcher, in Bond-
street, whose judgment in selecting, and liberality in pur
chasing, the best carcases is well known, both to those of
whom he buys and to those who buy of him.            The sale bill
is as follows :                                       £¦ s.   d.
      1 Sheep, 6 stone 6 lb. at 6 s. per stone         9   0  a
      1 Ditto  7         0        6s.                  2    2 0
      1 Ditto  6         1        6s.                  1 16   9
      l Ditto 7          2        6s.                  2    3 6
      l Ditto 5         6         6s.                  I  14  6
      1 Ditto  5         2        6s.                  1 11   6
      1 Ditto  5         7        r3s.                 1  )5  3
     1  Ditto  5        4         6 s.                 I  13  0
     1  Ditto  6        2         6s.                  1  17  6
    11  Heads and plucks, at l s.                      0  11  0
    10 Stone 4lb. fat, at 3s. lod.                     2   0  3
                                                     19    5  9
Respecting the goodness of the mutton, inquiry must be
made    of Mr. Giblet, at whose shop the carcases were shown
                                                               for

                  of Fine-woolled Spanish    Sheep.              143
for    several days,  and of his customers who purchased the
             Experience   has, however, demonstrated        already,
   ioth at Windsor and at W'eybridge, that Spanish mutton
t'oir.ts.
 is of the best quality for a gentleman's table.
     The pelt wool of these eleven sheep was taken off, in
order that its value might be ascertained.
              It weighed in the yoke         -      36 lb.
              Loss in scouring         -     -       8
              Amount of scoured wool         -      28
 It  was sold as skin   wool for 4 s. 6d. a pound, and of course
 produced     5l. 19s. or 10s. a sheep, all expenses deducted,
  fhe amount of this profit was quite unexpected, and holds
 forth a source of advantage in this breed, that has not pro
 bably hitherto been calculated upon.
     Of all who have laboured to render his majesty's patriotic
views in importing Spanish sheep permanently useful to his
 subjects, Dr. Parry, of Bath, deserves the highest com
 mendation.        Amidst the labours of a profession always
 toilsome when successful, and particularly so at Bath,
 where persons, whose diseases cannot be ascertained by
 the faculty elsewhere, continually resort, the doctor found
 leisure t» employ himself in the improvement of the British
 fleece, by crossing various breeds with Spanish rams pre
  sented by his majesty to the marquis of Bath and to the
 Bath Agricultural Society.
     The prizes the doctor has continually obtained from the
judicious and respectable body from whom he borrowed
  rams, for cloths made of his own wool, in the midst of a
  manufacturing country and amongst abundance of able
  competitors, prove to a demonstration that he has brought
  the fleeces of the mixed breed very nearly to the value of
  the original Spanish ; nor is this to be wondered at, when
  we recollect that the effect of a mixture of breeds operates
 in the following proportions :
     The first cross of a new breed gives to the
         lamb half of the ram's blood, or        -     50 per cent.
     The second    gives      -      -     -     -     75
     The third        -      -       -   '
                                           -     -     87*
     The fourth                                        93$
  At which period it is said, that if the ewes have been judi
  ciously selected, the difference of wool between the original
  stock and the mixed breed is scarcely to be discerned by the
  most able practitioners.
      More need not be said     of  the doctor's merit   : his book,
                                                              which

  144      Improvement      of Fine-woolled Spanish       Sheep.
 which    everv man who wishes to improve wool ought k>
 read,   will give  a more just idea of the acuteness of his dis
 crimination, the diligence with which he pursued his pur
 pose,   and the success that finally attended his judicious
 management, than can be stated in the brief form of a re
 port like th^s.
     Much, however, as Dr. Parry deserves the gratitude of
 all who honour the fleece, lord Somerville's merit stands at
 least as eminently conspicuous.         Emulating the example of
 his sovereign,   his  lordship,  whose   just discrimination of the
 value of different breeds of stock is admitted by the most
 experienced agriculturists-,     made a voyage to Portugal for
 the sole purpose of selecting, by his own judgment, from
 the best flocks in Spain, such sheep as joined in the greatest
 degree the merit of a good carcase to the superiority in wool
 which the Merino flocks are allowed to possess.
     His lordship succeeded, and brought home, more than
 two years ago, a flock of the first quality, which will pro
bably repav with advantage the costs of the undertaking, as
 some of his lordship's rams are said to have been already
 sold for 100 guineas each.
    As ten crops of wool have now been shorn from bis ma-
  csty's Spanish flock, and not a single sheep from Spain has
\trccn introduced into it during the whole of the ten years that
have produced them ; and as the tenth crop afforded nearly
five-sixths of prime wool and only one-fourteenth of fribbs;
 it is to be hoped that the deep-rooted prejudice which has
 for ages deceived the people of England into an opinion that
Spanish wool degenerates in this climate, will now be finally
lodged in that catalogue of vulgar errors which the increase
of human knowledge daily enlarges.              It is to be hoped also
that a bold assertion hazarded here, that the mutton of
Spanish fine-woolled sheep is coarse, tough, and little better
than carrion, will be contradicted by the evidence of Mr.
Giblet and his customers, to the satisfaction of those who
have unwarily iriven credit to it.
    His majesty having been pleased to permit the sale of such
sheep as can be spared from the Spanish flock to be conti
nued, the rams will be delivered at Windsor, and the ewes
at Oatlands, in the latter end of August.             As, however, it
has been suggested        io  his majesty   that  the   carcases of the
sheep are evidently improved,         and  that  the  wool   has rather
gained than     lost  in  value,  six guineas    will in  future be the
        of a ram, and two that of an ewe. And as his majesty
   as been graciously pleased to continue to intrust the ma
Crice
                                                              nagement

          On the Virtues and Principles              of Cantharides.              14.5
nagement of the flock to Sir Joseph Banks, all letters on
the subject of   addressed to him in Soho-square, will he
                    it,
answered, and the utmost endeavours used to consult the
convenience of those who wish to become purchasers.
  July 1801.                             Joseph Banks.
XXII.       Medico-chemical Researches on the                          Virtues    and
     Principles    Cantharides extracted from
                   of'                 :                              a   Memoir    of
     C. Beaupoil          by   C. Deveux*.
J.   hough the animal kingdom affords only small number           a
of  substances which can be employed in medicine,   must                    it
still be allowed that among those to which  has recourse,         it
there are some the effect of which       so certain, so constant,
                                                is
and so striking, that      theyif
                                were wanting       would be im it
possible to find others to  supply their  places.
   Cantharides in particular are of this number.           Every
body knows the manner in which they act, and the re
 sources they afford in    variety of diseases.
                                   a                 needs there  It
fore excite no surprise, that an examination of these insects
should at all times have engaged the attention of the most
celebrated physicians, and that chemists have often tried to
 subject them to analysis.
   The principal object of all those who have laboured on
cantharides has been to discover whether the vesicant pro
perty, which they possess in the highest degree, belongs in
general to all the parts of the animal, or whether           docs            it
not rather reside in     particular matter, which, independ
                               a
ently of those that accompany                 it,
                                        can act alone, and give
rise to the effects produced           by
                                   the whole cantharides.
     Itwould no doubt be superfluous to relate here every
thing which has been done or said on this subject but                       ;       it
is of importance to remark, that no one before Thouvenel
pursued the route which would lead to             solution of the
                                                              a
proposed problem         has
                          :   been
                              it     therefore  since  the period
when that physician published       the different experiments he
made on cantharides, that any hopes have existed of obtain
ing more accurate knowledge respecting the properties of
the immediate materials of these insects.
   However, in rendering justice to the efforts made                                by
Thouvenel,    it must be allowed also that he has not carried
to   asufficient length the labour which he commenced so
               * From the Annates          de Chim.e,   No.   14.1.
Vol.. XVIII. No.          70.          K                                         well,

 148              On the Virtues and Principles
 well, since he neglected some of the most important ques
 tions necessary to be treated, and particularly those which
 relate to the vesicant, diuretic, and aphrodisiac, properties
 of cantharides.
    To supply in some measure the silence he has observed
 on these three points, Beaupoil has thought proper to exa
 mine cantharides again. The dissertation in which he has
 published his experiments having appeared to nie worthy
 of being known, I shall give an extract from it.
    The author divides this dissertation into four parts.
    In the first he gives a cursory view of the specific cha-»
racters of cantharides; the processes employed to collect
 them ; and the preparations to which they are subjected be
 fore they are introduced into commerce for medicinal pur
 poses.
     In the second   he gives a short account of the use made
of these   insects since the days of Hippocrates to the present
period.
    The third contains a correct account of the attempts made
by chemists to analyse cantharides, as well as a view of his
own experiments, and of the results he obtained.
    The fourth contains every thing that relates to the phy
siological essays made with these animals; to the effects
produced by the external application and internal admini
stration of them ; and observations on the phaenomena ob
served on opening several dogs, which the author caused
to swallow either whole cantharides or their different im
mediate principles, which he was enabled to separate by
means of particular processes.
    As the first and second part contain nothing which may
not be found in various authors, I shall proceed to the third
part, which is merely chemical.
    It has already been observed that Thouvencl was the first
who examined cantharides in a manner likely to prove use
ful. Water and alcoholic fluids were, in particular, the
two agents which he thought proper to employ in prefe
rence tor separating from these insects the soluble parts
which he expected to obtain. The results by means of these
two fluids were :
    1st, A reddish yellow extractive matter of a pungent bit
terness, similar, he says, to that of ants, except its being less
acid.
    2d, A yellow matter less dark than the former, and al
most insipid.
    3d, A fat matter of a green colour, of an acrid savour,
and having the smell peculiar to whole cantharides.
           3                                             4th, A

                          of Cantharides.                    147
    4th,   A parenchymatous matter.
    Similar products   were ohtained by   C Beaupoil : but, in
stead or' being satisfied with ascertaining their existence, he
examined them separately ; and in this consists the chief
difference between his labour and that of Thouvenel.
    He first remarked, that the aqueous solution of the kind
of extractive matter furnished     by cantharides soon experi
enced a sort   of alteration when  exposed to the air ; that the
liquor, became turbid,     formed a yellow precipitate which
acquired a peculiar odour, became covered with a viscid
pellicle which emitted a foetid ammoniacal odour ; and that
when it arrived at this term the same liquor exhibited no
longer any sensible change. He then remarked that the
solution in question, before it experienced ail the changes
occasioned in it by exposure to the air, gave a strong red
colour to tincture of turnsole ; that when mixed with rec
tified alcohol, or with ether, it divided itself into two parts
nearly equal, one under the form of a black glutinous pre
cipitate insoluble in alcohol, and the other under that of a
yellowish brown matter exceedingly soluble in alcohol.
    He ascertained also that the black precipitate dried readily
in the air, became brittle and friable, and reddened tincture
of turnsole ; that it combined very well with potash, suffer
ing to be disengaged ammonia ; that when distilled over an
open fire it swelled up and gave an acid liquor, a thick oil,
and carbonate of ammonia, and that it left in the retort a
dry, brittle, and friable charcoal.
    Proceeding then to examine the yellow matter which re
mained in solution in the alcohol, C. Beaupoil asserts, that
when it is concentrated by the evaporation of its solvent,
 it retains the same odour and the same savour as the ex
 tract ; that it dissolves completely in water, and reddens
 tincture of turnsole ; that it combines wholly with potash
 without any disengagement of ammonia; and that this
 combination results from <a homogeneous and glutinous
 body soluble in water, and capable of being precipitated by
a weak acid ; and, in the Jast place, that when distilled over
an open lire it swells up very little, gives an acid liquor, a
 black fcetid oil, and carbonateof ammonia; but that all these
 products are in general less abundant than those obtained
 from the black precipitate.
    Of these different results the author thought it his duty
 to attend more particularly to the acid, which, as seen, is so
easily observed in the infusion of cantharides, or in the ex
 tract which they furnish.
    He at first supposed that this acid was analogous to that
                               K.2                             of

148                      On the Virtue1; and Principles
of vinegar   he even thought that the existence of it might
                :
be ascribed  to the practice adopted by those who collect
cantharides, of exposing them to the vapour of that acid;
but having subjected to experiment some of these insects,
collected without the aid of vinegar, he saw that they ex
hibited the same phacnomena as those of the shops. He
was therefore obliged to renounce his first idea, and to at
tempt to ascertain by experiments the nature of the acid
presented to him.    It, however, appears that all his efforts
in this respect were entirely fruitless ; for he at length con
cludes that he is not yet enabled to give a decisive opinion ;
and    that, though the acid in question has some analogy
with the phosphoric,       he thinks that it does not possess all
its properties, and therefore that it ought to be placed in a
particular class, until that which it ought to occupy shall be
fixed by new experiments.
    The third product of cantharides, called by Thouvenel and
Beaupoil the green matter, does not seem to experience any
alteration in the air, at least in its physical properties. It
is insoluble in cold water; it liquefies in hot water, on which
it floats in the manner of oil : alcohol and ether both dis
solve     it,
            and in these two menstrua            it   is
                                                   decomposed                by
water.      Oxygenated muriatic acid brought into contact
with this matter, and renewed from time to time, does not
at first appear to have any action on it; but small whitish
and shining scales, which fall to the bottom of the vessel,
are gradually seen to detach themselves from            in less than
                                                           it  :
eight days      loses its odour and colour, becomes thick and
                it
glutinous, and, notwithstanding several lotions,              always    it
retains the odour of the oxygenated muriatic acid.
    Diluted nitric acid assisted          by
                                      heat gives      russet colour,
                                                          it
                                                           a
a rancid and pungent odour, and even            pretty strong con
                                                  a
sistence.
    Caustic soda unites with         without the aid of heat, and
                                      it
without the disengagement of ammonia.             The product of
                                                      '
this union          is
                 decomposed          by
                                   acids.
    When exposed to the highest degree of heat            fuses andit
 forms liquid, as were, oily and slightly transparent, which
          a                it
by cooling soon resumes the solid state. In           stronger heat
                                                           a
it   isdecomposed,     its colour changes, and there passes over
 into the recipients        yellowish oil, very analogous to that
                                a
 furnished          by
                  yellow wax when distilled, an acid phlegm,
but not an atom of carbonate of ammonia.
    In regard to the parenchyme, which forms the residuum
 of the different macerations, infusions, and decoctions, in
 water, alcohol, and in ether, the author, after, ascertaining
                                                                 that

                          of Cantharides.                      14<*
  that these fluids could extract no more, subjected it to the
  action of caustic potash, which caused immediately to he
 disengaged a very sensible odour of ammonia.         When this
  odour was once dissipated the liquor was filtered, and im
  mediately mixed with muriatic acid. The mixture became
 turbid, and gradually produced a precipitate, which, when
 dried and put upon burning coals, exhaled an odour similar
 to that of animal matters in a state of combustion.
    Distilled in a retort this parenchyme gave a phlegm, thick
 empyreumatic oil, and a very large quantity of carbonate of
 ammonia. The residuum of the distillation presented a kind
 of charcoal, from which was obtained, by incineration in
 the open air, a kind of white ashes, in which were found
 carbonate of lime, phosphate of lime, sulphate and muriate
 of lime, and oxide of iron.
    Taking into account the quantity of each of the products
 obtained by means of the above experiments, the author
 asserts that an ounce of cantharides well dried contains
                                                Gros. Grains.
         Black matter          -                  1     2
          Yellow matter        -                  1     2
         Green matter           -                 1     8
         Parenchyme            -                  4   36
         Acid     -    an indefinite quantity.
         Phosphate of lime        -               0    12
          Carbonate of lime       -               0     2
         Sulphate   and  muriate    of lime -     0     4
         Oxide of iron         -                  0     2
    To complete the labour which C. Beaupoil had under
 taken, it still remained to determine the physiological pro
 perties of cantharides, as well as those of their most essential
 immc*diate properties.     This he appears to have performed
with considerable success in the fourth part of his disserta
 tion. Besides other results, he found the following from the
 experiments he made on this subject :
    1st, That cantharides which have been subjected to no
preparation almost always produce disagreeable effects when
taken internally ; but these effects are relative, according to
their intensity, the age, strength, and constitution of the
animals, and the dose administered to them : that the oeso
phagus, stomach, and small intestines, are the parts parti
cularly affected ; that such animals as do not fall a sacrifice
to their effects experience a desire to puke, very severe
pains, and various accidents, which seem to announce that
the parts touched by the cantharides have a tendency to be
come disorganized.
                                K   3                  2d,   That

130      On tlie Fir lues and Principles o/Cantharidei.
   2d, That aqueous extract of cantharides in less doses thad .
cantharides themselves, gradually produces the same effects j
but that its action on the urinary passages is more striking.
   3d, That the black matter is much more active than the
extract ; that animals to which it is given are subject to
pain and vomiting, but rarely any of them perish.
   4th, That the green matter given internally does not
seem to have deleterious       qualities, since all animals to
which it is administered, even in pretty strong doses, have
not seemed to experience any bad effects.
   5th, That the yellow matter does not appear to be more
active than the green matter.
   6th, That the extract, the yellow matter and the black
matter, applied all three separately to the surface of the
body, produce the vesicant effect nearly in the same time.
    7th, That the green matter applied externally seems not
to act when alone ; but that its action soon appears when
mixed with wax, and when reduced by these means to the
consistence of cerate.
    I must not forget to observe that C. Beaupoil was not
satisfied with trials made on animals, but had the courage
to repeat them on himself.         After acquiring all the infor
mation necessary, he thinks he is authorisca to assert that
the vesicant property resides essentially in the extractive
and green part of the cantharides, but that the extractive
part alone acts on the urinary and genital system.
    From these details it is seen that the author has carried
his examination of cantharides further than Thouvenel.
But though his labour is very extensive it is still far from
being complete, since many things remain to be done, par
ticularly in what relates to the green matter; for it is diffi
cult to conceive how, when administered internally, it has
no action on the animal ceconomy ; while applied exter
nally it produces the vesicant effect.     This objection which
 I made to the author, and of which he felt the importance,
will no doubt induce him to make new experiments, in
 order to ascertain what ought to be expected from the. use
 of the different parts of this substance, from which medicine
 derives so great benefit.
                                                    XXIII.    Ob-

                             [     131   ]
XXIII.      Observations   on the Prussic Acid, and the Pro
  duction   of   a Pyrophorus   by the Prussiate of Iron. By
  D.,H. Grindel*.
XT    is well known that Scheele, when distilling prussiate of
iron per se, found that a part of the colouring matter passed
over undecomposed, and was contained, in combination
with ammonia, in the water that first passed over, and also
in union with carbonic acid gas in the void of the receivert.
I had long intended to prosecute this experiment further,
and to examine whether it was not possible in this manner,
without further medium, to disengage the prussic acid in
the gaseous form from prussiate of iron, to combine it with
pure potash, and produce prussiate of potash free from iron.
Late observations on the prussic acid in bitter almonds, &c.
induced me to pay attention again to this circumstance,
and I made the following experiments :
    I. I put a small quantity of Prussian blue of the shops,
finely pulverized, into a small glass fitted with a pneumatic
tube, and heated the whole over a spirit lamp, after the
tube and the glass had been closely united.        As soon as a
strong    smell of bitter almonds was  disengaged,   I immersed
the tube in mercury, and received the gas in a solution of
pure potash.       The gas was continually absorbed by the
potash; but it at length displaced the fluid, and I ceased to
expose the Prussian blue to heat.
    II. The potash impregnated with gas smelt a little of
bitter almonds.      I then placed it in a sand bath, and suf
fered it to evaporate slowly to one half.          On cooling I
perceived at the bottom of the glass irregular crystals,
some of which were foliated, others tabular, and some
seemed to be cubic.        These crystals I separated from the
fluid. They exercised a complete reaction, like prussiate
of potash on sulphate and nitrate of iron, — only that the
              was greenish blue, and became of a beautiful
Erecipitate
  lue only by the addition of acid after a part of it had been
dissolved.
    III. The liquid separated from the salt was decomposed
with a little alcohol, and there was produced a white tender
precipitate, which I again separated- by the filter. The quan
tity, however, was so small that scarcely any trace of it
remained on the paper.
   • From
            Neucs AUgemeines "Journal da Cktrr.ic von Hermistajf,   fe' c.
vol. i. no. 6.
   t Scbcde's Schrtftcn, vol.ii.p. 341.
                                 K 4                        IV. The

 152           Observations on the Prussic   Acid, &c.
    IV.   The liquor which passed through had in the course
of a few hours,     and this perhaps would have been the case
 sooner had I left it at rest, deposited at the bottom an oil
which appeared yellowish, and which could not be mixed
by shaking it with the supernatant liquor.           I suffered it ta
stand till the next day, in order that I might make more
accurate observations in the day-time ; but saw with asto
 nishment that the oil had disappeared, and had left in its
 place a crystalline precipitate, which, though small, exhi
bited all the phenomena of prussiate of potash. I here
suspended all further research, as I was not able to repeat
the experiment with sufficient accuracy, and therefore re
 served it for further examination.       It was, however, esta
 blished by the first, and second experiments, that by this
process prussiate of potash, free from iron, can be pro-,
duced. But if carbonic acid was combined with the prussic
acid, an idea I was led to take up by the difference of the
crystals which were produced, and by the greenish blue
precipitate, it is natural to suppose that the latter expelled
the former in part, and mixed also with a part of the
 potash ; and, therefore, the prussiate of potash must have
been separated from the prussic acid.
    Bcrthollet's experiment, in which he treated prussic acid
with oxygenated nfuriatic acid, was here of importance*.
The prussic acid was decomposed, and an oil was pro
duced : the oil in water sank to the bottom : it no longer
reacted like the prussic acid on combinations of iron : it
was not inflammable : it evaporated in heat, and in course
of time was converted into small crystals. If I entertained
any doubts in regard to my own experiments, this coinci
dence in some manner removed them.               The same phasno-
mepon was confirmed by an experiment of a quite different
kind, where an oil was produced by the action of alcohol
on the prussic acid and carbonate of potash. The confir
mation of Bcrthollet's experiment affords cause for more
accurate research in regard to the fundamental mixture of
prussic acid, oil, and alcohol.
    It still remains to he examined, whether the oil produced
in this manner, according to my experiment, was prussic
acid. It was possible that the crystals produced might have
been again taken up by the fluid, and even by the air,
which in my experiments was quite filled with it. Whether
the oily fluid produced was really an oil, I was not further
able to determine ; but by shaking it with the watery fluid
                • CreH't Annalcn, 1790, vol. i. p. 186.
                                                           I divided

    Oil produced    from     the Leaves   of t lie Laurel Cherry.       153
I divided it like oil into small globules, which again soon
united.
    I must here mention another phenomenon, which I
cannot pass over with indifference.               Every time I heated,
tor a considerable time, the Prussian blue of the shops over
a spirit lamp, in order to prepare the gas, so that the Prus
sian blue was pretty well decomposed, and had become
brownish black, I observed, when the glass was broken,
still hot, that the Prussian blue here and there inflamed in
the same manner as pyrophorus prepared from alum and
charcoal, or like sulphate of potash and charcoal, but without
a blue flame.       The Prussian blue was always heated over a
spirit lamp,   so  that   it was impossible an inflammation could
arise. Three or four experiments, repeated for this purpose,
confirmed this observation, but I was obliged to break the
glass while hot.         The same thing did not take place with
prussiate   of iron,    but    I made the experiment only once.
   The production of pyrophorus by this process may be
explained in the following manner : — The Prussian blue of
the shops contains, as is well known, argillaceous earth
(potash) and a little sulphuric acid : now, as the prussic
acid and carbonic acid are disengaged, a decomposition of
the sulphuric acid may take place ; the sulphur which is
produced may unite with the free argillaceous earth ; and in
this manner we may be conducted to the well known theory
of pyrophorus. If this explanation be not agreeable to nature,
we have perhaps still obtained more.                 In my experiments
a partial decomposition only took place each time, as only
some particles, and those of the largest size, inflamed.
This observation might conduct us to the nature of the#-
substance which in this case is the agent, and these expe
riments may perhaps furnish abler chemists with matter for
future research.
                                                  1
XXIV.      Experiments on the Oil produced from the Leaves
   of the Laurel Clierry.          By C.   Roloff of Magdeburg*.
1 have      made some experiments with the distilled oil of
the leaves of the laurel cherry, the result of which I here
communicate, because they are different from that of the
experiments of M. Bucholz with distilled oil of bitter
almonds.
    As M. Bucholz employed potash with success for the
             •  From              work
                       the same        as the preceding article.
                                                                 separation

 154     Oil produced from    the Leaves  of the Laurel Cherry,
separation     of the radical of the prassic acid from the before
mentioned oil,      I  made choice of lime in order to examine
whether earths could be employed for the same purpose, as
I   believed, and I made the following experiments :
      I. 1 shook for some time half an ounce of fresh prepared
lime water, with three drops of the oil of the laurel cherry,
by which means a complete mixture of both was effected,
and no oil floated at the surface.      To this mixture I added
half a dram of clear liquid muriate of iron, by which a
greenish precipitate, inclining to blue, was produced.
When mixed with a sufficient quantity of the muriate, the
greater part of the precipitate was redissolved, and the
liquid assumed a green colour.         After a short time a small
             of a blue precipitate was deposited, which when
Quantity
   ltered, washed, and dried, amounted to nearly half a grain,
and exhibited all the appearances of prussiate of iron.
     II. I repeated the above experiment, only with this dif
ference, that I employed six drops of oil. The same phe
nomena were produced, and the blue precipitate at length
obtained corresponded perfectly in weight with that of the
first experiment, for it amounted to nearly a grain .
     By this experiment it is also proved that the distilled oil
of the leaves of the laurel cherry forms, by means of lime,
prussic acid. I must here remark that, for the greater
certainty, I repeated both experiments, as I did in regard
to all the rest, without shaking the oil of the laurel cherry,
with lime water, by which means I obtained a clear
fluid. This I mixed with a drop of the solution of prussiate
of potash, by which I produced the same shade of colour
an the fluid as in the preceding experiments, and after a
little rest a blue precipitate deposited itself at the bottom.
     As M. Bucholz did not succeed completely in producing
prussiate of iron, by treating the distilled oil of bitter al
monds with ammonia, I resolved to repeat the same expe
riment with the oil of the leaves of the laurel cherry.
     III. With this view I shook six drops of this oil with a
dram of pure fluid ammonia, and mixed with them half a
dram of clear deliquescent muriate of iron, which was still
diluted with two drams of distilled water. The result was
a green precipitate, mixed with a great deal of blue, which,
by the addition of pure muriatic acid, left a blue preci
pitate, which when washed and dried amounted to a grain,
and exhibited all the phenomena of prussiate of iron.
     By this also it is proved that ammonia is in no manner
     judicial to the formation of the prussiate of iron, as
S    . Bucholz concludes from his experiments.        The reason
                                                             why

    On the Ether suggested by Sir Isaac Newton,             &c.   14   J
why tliis accurate chemist obtained so few traces of prus-
siate of iron, no doubt was, that the oil of bitter almonds
contains less of the radical of the prussic acid than that of
the leaves of the laurel cherry*.
    I am also of opinion that the prussic acid does not exist
as such in a free state, and with alkalies and earths, can
form no prussic acid salts without a portion of the oxide
of iron.     To confirm this opinion 1 made the following
experiments :
    IV. Six drops of the oil of the laurel cherry being shaken
with half an ounce of lime water, ten grains of acetite of
copper dissolved in a dram of distilled water were mixed
with    it,which produced    a
                                 green precipitate.    This preci
pitate was again perfectly dissolved              by
                                               the addition of the
acetous acid.
    V.  I  repeated the same experiment, with this variation,
 that instead of lime water  I    employed ammonia,         bywhich
I  obtained the same result.
    These experiments, in my opinion, confirm in             acom
 plete  manner    that  the  prussic  acid   cannot exist  as  such
 without     portion
              a       of the  oxide  of iron  jotherwise    reddish
                                                            a
 brown precipitate, according to analogy, must in these ex
 periments have been produced. Want of oil prevented me
 from carrying my experiments further.
XXV.     On the Etfier suggested      Sir Isaac Newton,
                                             by
    compared with the supposed newly discovered Principle              of
    Galvanism.   By Governor PowNALLf.
Although        at an advanced period of life the mind doe9
 not possess strength sufficient for the pursuit of any new
 research, or for the study of any new branch      science, of
                                                       of
 which am conscious as ought to be yet feeling myself
        I                    I                     ;
 capable to follow the researches of others, and to judge of
 their theories when formed,     have in all humble diffidence
                                     I
 followed the experiments, and attended to the theories,
 which modern philosophers have made and formed respect
  ing the phaenomena of     supposed newly discovered prin-
                             a
   * In two experiments with ammonia and the oil of the leaves of the
laurel cherry, made by   aprocess different from that of M. Bucholz,   I
was not able to obtain prussiate of iron I
                                         ;   however hare no doubt that
this might be effected.
    t Communicated   by the author.
                                 •                                ciple,

    156     On the Ether suggested by Sir Isaac Newton
   ciplc, which, from the name of the first studying observer,
   has been called galvanism.
      Whilst thus following the phaenomena as exhibited in
   the experiments of these philosophers, by which this sup
   posed newly-discovered agent acts and operates impulsively
  and chemically in, on, and by various substances, metals,
  semimetals, minerals, mineralic and other solutions ; on
  water, glass, resins, animal motion and senses, fungic and
  vegetable substances ; I was rather disappointed to find,
  (under the present advanced state of science) that these ex
  perimentalists were at first so disposed to imagine, or so
  willing to have it imagined, that they had severally made
  discoveries of some hitherto secret principles in nature, or
  that they referred to unknown causes operating thereby.
  On further more scientific investigation, however, by such
  accurate philosophers as Volta, Dumas, and especially Dr.
  Wollaslon, they simplified the results of their experi
  ments, and have in general agreed to refer all the phaeno
  mena of this supposed newly discovered principle, to an
  agent long known by the name of electricity.      Yet I cannot
 but wish that philosophy had not stopped here ; for I own
 that I cannot conceive this electric agent to be a prime
 principle sui generis, but only a species of operation,
 classing with all the rest under a more simple and general
 principle, becoming, by its various modes of cooperation,
 under various circumstances, a formal or perhaps an effi
 cient cause common to all. Instead, therefore, of being led
 to a plurality of principles and causes, as superficial theolo-
 gists have been, by the various operations or divine agency,
 to a plurality of gods, where they ought to have found the true
 one, I keep an eye fixed on a one general principle, which
 I have been used to acknowledge, as investigated and an
 nounced by Sir Isaac Newton, so far as to substantiate its
 existence.    The principle I mean, as known to exist really,
but which requires further investigation to ascertain, by its
nature and operation, bow far it may be a general efficient      ¦
cause, is that elastic active medium which Newton named
ether —" iste aether (id enim ei nomen quid ni imponam,
quid sit non definio) quoddam medium longe longcque
rarius et subtilius quam aer vel lumen, longcque etiam ma-
gis elasticum et actuosum"—
                                  " quod corpora omnia facil-
time permeat, perque ccelos universos vi sua elastica diffu-
sum est."      The existence of this principle may be taken as
a datum, as a known fact; and so far as concerns the
phenomena of its operations, Sir Isaac Newton states,
                                                            that

           compared            with         the       Principle of Galvanism.                157
that by its compressed elasticity, and its vibrations, it ap
pears to attend and cooperate in all the known operations
of nature; in gravity; in attraction of aggregation, and in
all the chemical interchanges therein ; in repulsion ; in the
various movements of light, as its direction goes in right
lines ; in its inflections, its refractions, and reflections ; in
ks fits of easy transmission and reflexion ; in heat and light ;
in magnetism*; in electricity, and in that species of elec
tric attraction f,            "
                       quae tam angustis finibus contineatur ut
usque    ad  hue  omnem      observationem fugerit : et fortasse
attractio electrica ad istius modi exigua intervalla extendi
potest, etiamsi non excitetur frictione."         This appears spe
cifically  to  distinguish   that   electric operation which has
course given to                        by
                            the simple contact of metallic and
                              it,
other substances,      without being excited             friction, as         by
vitreous and resinous electricity is.           This ether,        its                   by
 compressed elasticity, or                        by
                                  its vibrations, appears to attend
 or cooperate in the sense of sight and hearing, and in ani
 mal motion         J.
  It  evidently appears that Sir Isaac Newton had investi
 gated the nature of this ether, so far as to substantiate long
 ago its existence, and its operations as       coopcrating/oraia*        a
 cause, so as to recommend             to investigation how far
                                                       it                                     it
 may be found to be an efficient cause, general to all the
 phenomena therein referred to                                  by
                                          him. Although he stated
 this his information, merely as matters of inquiry, to be
 pursued       by
               others, yet these phenomena, ana the opera
 tions whence they arise, have been but lately submitted to
 experiment      and that with
                    ;                view and in      line referring
                                                       a                      a
 to supposed newly      discovered    principles in nature, and to
 unknown causes therein.
    Here  I  would wish to recommend the opinion and the
 words of Professor Cotes to such of the late philosophers
                                                  "
  who have these views — ad vcram philosophiain pertinet
                                          §
    * There    ispeculiar phenomenon, different from ail others,
                   a                                                       which       t>y
this principle acts or     acted upon.
                                  is           appears   to lie conntcitd
                                                                It           \vi               h
some agent extein.il to         which
                                    it,   by
                                           acquires ami maintains
                                                           it           dir.ctiou  a
to the north pole of our globe     but yet, whatever be thi> cooprrsine
                                                  ;
agent, whose current givts this specilic tendency t" the magnet or mag
netic needle, this tendency, so far as relates to the magnetic body itself,
can be reversed in the body iisclf, as the current of the power which
actuates the voltaic pile can,                 by
                                    an alteration      the position of its parts,
                                                                      in
he reversed.        Itknown that the ni.tgnv.iic needle, on being stricken
                         is
 with lightning, h.is been reversed and the artificial magnet can have its
                                                      ;
 polt-s reversed   the same means
                        by               which      was first made magnet.
                                                          by         it            a
        Newtoni Opt. quxrc                  ji.
                                  at the time in which Newton speaks.
 \ t   Qu*rc       ijet 24..
  §    Prjefatio    ad Newtoni            Piinc/pi.i.
                                                                                         rcrum

 158         On the Preparation,    Culture, and Use
rerum natures ex vere existentibus causis derivare — in horc-
 logiis automatis idem indicis horarii motas vel ab appenso
pondere vel ab intiis concluso elatere oriri potest.         Quod
si oblatum horologium revera sit instructum pondere ;
videbitur qui fingit elaterem, et ex hypothesi sic praepro-
 per& conficta, motum indicis explicare suscipiet."
    In what I have stated above, I have, perhaps presump
tuously towards better philosophers and wiser men than
myself, perhaps from inexperience in the present advanced
state of science, ventured to express a wish that a course
of experiments were instituted to investigate the nature and
operations of this ether, a principle known to exist ; how
far and in what manner it acts ; how, if at all, it operates,
by its compressed elasticity, in becoming a cooperating or
an efficient cause to gravity and attraction ; how rar and in
what manner it may, by its active movement and its vibra
tions, cooperate with or be a cause to the phaenomena of
heat," light, electricity, and all the attractions of natural
or chemical affinity, and of the various interchanges therein ;
and how far, and in what manner, in animal sensations
and motion ; how far, and in company with what power,
it may give to magnetism a polar course. I have ventured,
perhaps hazarding my prudence, to recall the study of phi
losophy to these pursuits in the very line which Sir Isaac
Newton so long ago marked out — but which vet, from
some suspended doubts about this ether and its existence,
have been, as seems to me, neglected and passed by.
XXVI.      On the Preparation, Culture, and Use of the Orchis
               Root. By J. Percival, M. D.*
Oalep     is a preparation of the root of Orchis, or Dog-
stones,   of which many species are enumerated by botanical
writers. The Orchis masada Linn. Sp.pl. is the most valued,
although the roots of some of the palmated sorts, particu
larly of the Orchis latifolia, arc found to answer almost
ecually well.     This plant flourishes in various parts of
Europe and Asia, and grows in our country spontaneously,
and in great abundance.      It is assiduously cultivated in 11it-
East ; and the root of it forms a considerable part of the
diet of the inhabitants of Turkey, Persia, and Syria.           A
dry and not very fertile soil is best adapted to its growth.
An ingenious friend of mine, in order         to collect the seed,
                *  From Hunter's Gecrgical Fss.=ys.
                                                            trans*

                            of the Orchis Root.                           15fl
transplanted      a   number of the orchises intoa meadow, where
he had    prepared           well manured for their reception.
                          a bed
The next spring few of them appeared, and not one came
to maturity, their roots being black and half rotten.           The
same gentleman informed me that he had never been able to
raise any plants from the seed of the wild orchis j but he.
ascribes his want of success to the wetness of the situation
in which he resides.       I have now before me a seed pod of
the orchis, the contents of which, to the naked eye, seem
to be seed corrupted and turned to dust ; but, when viewed
through a microscope, appear evidently to be organized, and
would, I doubt not, with prdper culture, germinate, and
produce a thriving crop of plants. The properest time for
gathering the roots is when the seed is formed, and the
stalk is ready to fall, because the new bulb, of which the
salep is made, is then arrived to its full maturity, and may
be distinguished from the old one by a white bud rising from
the top of    it,
                which       the germ of the orchis of the suc»
                               is
ceeding year.
   Several methods of preparing salep have been proposed
and practised.    Geoffroy has delivered       very judicious pro
                                                       a
cess, for this purpose, in the Histoire de I'AcadSmie Royale
des Sciences, 1740; and Retzius, in the Swedish Transac
tions, 1764-, has improved Geoffroy's method.             But Mr.
Moult, of Rochdale, has lately favoured the public with                     a
new manner of curing the orchis root and as               have seen
                                                            if I
                                                       :
many specimens of his salep, at least equal,              not supe
rior, to any brought from the Levant, can recommend the
                                                   I
following, which        his process, from my own knowledge
                          is
of its success The new root to be washed in water, and
                  :                       is
the fine brown skin which covers               to be separated
                                                  it   is                   by
means of      small brush, or
              a                            by
                                       dipping the root in hot
water, and rubbing        with
                            it     coarse linen cloth.
                                      a                    When a
sufficient number of roots have been thus cleaned, they are
to be spread on     tin plate, and placed in an oven heated to
                      a
the usual degree, where they are to remain six or ten mi
nutes,    which time they will have lost their milky whiteness,
         in
and acquired      transparency like horn, without any dimi
                    a
nution of bulk.      Being arrived at this state, they are to be
                                              the air, which will
                                                   by in
removed, in order to dry and harden
require several days to effect        or, ;   using    very gentle
                                                            a
heat, they may be finished in        few hours*.
                                          a
   Salep, thus prepared, may be afforded, in this part of
                                              V
  • Vide  aLetter from Mr. John Mmiltto the author, containing        a   new
method of preparing salep,  Phil. Transact, vol. lis.
                                 in
                                                                   England

  1 60            On the Preparation, Culture, arid Use
 England,       where labour bears a high value, at about 8d. or
  10a. per lb.      And it might be sold still cheaper, if the
orchis were to be cured without separating from it the brown
skin which covers it ; a troublesome part of the process,
and which does not contribute to render the root either
more palatable or salutary. Whereas the foreign salep is
 now sold at 5s. or 6s. per lb.
      The culture of the orchis, therefore, is an object highly
deserving of encouragement from all the lovers of agricul
 ture. And as the root, if introduced into common use,
would furnish a cheap, wholesome, and most nutritious
article of diet, the growth of it would be sufficiently pro
 fitable to the farmer.
      Salep is said to contain the greatest quantity of vegetable
nourishment in the smallest bulk.                 Hence a very judicious
writer, to prevent the dreadful calamity of famine at sea,
has lately proposed that the powder of it should constitute
 part of the provisions of every ship's company. This pow
der and portable soup, dissolved in boiling water, form a
 rich thick jelly, capable of supporting life for a considerable
length of time. An ounce of each of these articles, with
two quarts of boiling water, will be sufficient subsistence
for a man a day*; and, as being a mixture of animal and
vegetable food, must prove more nourishing than double
the quantity of rice cake, made by boiling rice in water.
This last, however, sailors are often obliged solely to sub
sist upon for several months, especially in voyages to
Guinea, when the bread and flour are exhausted, and the
beef and pork, having been salted in hot countries, are be
come unfit for use f.
     But, as a wholesome nourishment, rice is much inferior
to salep. I digested several alimentary mixtures prepared of
mutton and water, beat up with bread, sea-biscuit, salep,
rice flour, sago powder, potatoc, old cheese, &c. in a heat
equal to that of the human body.                     In forty-eight hours
they had all acquired a vinous smell, and were in brisk fer
mentation, except the mixture with rice, which did not
emit many air bubbles, and was but little changed. The
third day several of the mixtures were sweet, and continued
to ferment ; others had lost their intestine motion, and were
sour; but the one which contained the rice was become
    *
       Portable soup is sold at as. fid. per lb. ; salep, if cultivated in our
own country, might be afforded at jod. per lb.: the day's subsistence
would therefore amount only to rtvopence-hilf penny.
    + Vide Dr. Lind's Appendix       to his Es»ay on the Diseases of Hot
Climates.
 .                                                                     putrid.

                            Of   the Orchis Root   »                      161
 Jjutrid.   From this experiment it appears that rice, as an
 aliment, is slow of fermentation, and a very weak corrector
 of putrefaction.      It is therefore an improper diet for hospi
 tal patients ; but more particularly for sailors in long
voyages, because it is incapable of preventing, and will not
contribute much to cheek the progress of that fatal disease,
the sea-scurvy *.       Under certain Circumstances rice seems
 disposed  of  itself,  without   mixture, to become putrid ; for
by long keeping it sometimes acquires an offensive fcetor ;
nor can it be considered as a very nutritive kind of food, on
account of its difficult solubility in the stomach. Expe
 rience confirms the truth of this conclusion : for it is ob
served by the planters in the West Indies, That the negroes
grow thin, and are less able to work whilst they subsist
upon rice.
    Salcp has the singular property of concealing the taste of
salt water      f
              ; a circumstance of the highest importance at
Sea, when there is a scarcity of fresh water.        I dissolved a
drachm and half of common Salt in a pint of the mucilage
of salep, so liquid as to be potable, and the same quantity
in a pint of spring water. The salep was by no means dis
agreeable to the taste, but the water was rendered ex»
tremely unpalatable.
    This experiment suggested to me the trial of the orchis
root as a corrector ot acidity 5 a properly which would
render it a very useful diet for children. But the solution of
it,  when mixed with vinegar, seemed only to dilute, like an
equal proportion of water, and not to cover its sharpness.
    Salep, however, appears               by
                                       my experiments, to retard
the acetous fermentation of milk, and consequently would
be    agood lithiiig for milk pottage, especially in large towns,
where the cattle, being fed upon sour draff, must yield aces
cent milk.
   Salep in   certain proportion, which
                    a                       have not yet been
                                                   I
able to ascertain, would be    very useful
                                     a     and  profitable ad
dition to bread.    directed one ounce of the powder to be
                        I
dissolved      quart of water, and the mucilage to be mixed
                in  a
  *
       Cheese   isnow become     a considerable article of ship provisions.
When mellowed       by aye, it ferments readily with flesh and water, but
separates  a r.mcid oil, which seems incapable of any further change, aud
must, as  a sepiic, be pernicious    intlie scurvy
                                                 ;    for rancidity appears to
bea   species «f putrefaction.    The same objection may be urged, with
still greater propriety, against the use of cheese     in   hospitals
                                                                   ;   because
convalescents «re so liable to relapses, that the slightest error of diet may
occasion them.     Vide 1'ercivaJ'i Letter to Mr. Aikin.— Thoughts on
Hospitals, p. 95.
 t    ViHe Or. i.md's Appendix.
VoL.XVIIl.No.ro.                           L                            with

162       On the Preparation,          Use,    &c. of   the Orchis Root.
with    a sufficient quantity of flour, salt, and yeast.                The
Hoar amounted to two pounds, the yeast to two ounces,
and the salt to eighty grains.                The loaf, when baked, was
remarkably well fermented, and weighed three pounds two
ounces. Another loaf, made with the same quantity of
flour, &c. weighed two pounds and twelve ounces : from
which it appears that the salep, though used in so small a
proportion, increased the gravity of the loaf six ounces, by
absorbing and retaining more water than the flour alone was
capable of.        Half a pound of flour and an ounce of salep
were mixed together, and the water added according to the
Usual method of preparing bread.                    The loaf, when baked,
weighed       thirteen    ounces     and     a   half; and would probably
 have been heavier if the salep had been previously dissolved
in about a pint of water. But it should be remarked, that
the quantity of flour used in this trial was not sufficient to
conceal the peculiar taste of the salep.
    The restorative, mucilaginous, and demulcent qualities of
the orchis root render it of considerable use in various dis
eases.       In the sea-scurvy it powerfully obtunds the acri-
mony of the fluids, and at the same time is easily assimu-
lated into a mild and nutricious chyle.                   In diarrhoeas and
the dysentery it is highly serviceable, by sheathing the inter
nal coat of the intestines, by abating irritation, and cently
correcting putrefaction.             In the symptomatic fever, which
arises from the absorption of pus, from ulcers in the lungs,
from wounds, or from amputation, salep, used plentifully,
is an admirable demulcent, and well adapted to resist that
dissolution of the crasis of the blood which is so evident
in these cases. And, by the same mucilaginous quality, it
is equally efficacious in the strangury and dysury ; especially
in the latter, when arising from a venereal cause ; because
the discharge of urine is then attended with the most exqui
site pain, from the ulcerations about the neck of the blad
der, and through the course of the urethra. 1 have found.
it also an useful aliment for patients who labour under the.
•tone or gravel*.
                                                                       From
   • The ancient chemists seem to have entertained a verv high opi
nion of tlic virtues of the orchis root, of which the following quotation,
from the SECRET A SECRETORUM of Raymund Lu!ly,»librds a di
verting proof.     The work     is dated   1565.
                              SEXTA HERBA.
                                      Sat 11ion.
   "  Satirion hcrl.a est pluribusnota, hujusradicis collects ad pondus lib.
4. die 10 mensis Januarii, contunde fortitcr ct massam lontusam pone in
                                                                        ollatn

 Plants     used by the      Antientsfor Poisoning their Arrows.           163
     From these observations, short and imperfect as they are,
 I  hope it    will sufficiently appear that the culture of the
 orchis root is an object of considerable importance to the
 public, and highly worthy of encouragement from all the
 patrons of agriculture.             That taste for experiment which
 characterizes the present age, and which has so amazingly
 enlarged the boundaries or science, now animates the ra
 tional farmer, who fears not to deviate from the beaten
 tract whenever improvements are suggested, or useful pro
jects pointed out to him.              Much has Ibeen already done for
 the advancement of agriculture ; but the earth still teems
 with treasures which remain to be explored. The bounties
 of nature are inexhaustible, and will for ever employ the
 art and reward the industry of man.
 XXVII.         On the Plants employed by tlie antient People of
   Europe for Poisoning tlieir Arrows. By C. Coquebert*.
 All       those nations who live by hunting have sought, in
the vegetable kingdom, for active poisons in which they
 might dip their arrows, in order to kill with the greater
 certainty the animals they employed as fo6d.
     Most historians have neglected to make known to us the
 plants used lor this purpose by our ancestors, the half sa
 vage inhabitants of Europe, in the most remote periods.
 Chance, however, put into my hands two Spanish works,
 in which I found some passages which throw light on this
 Interesting subject.
     The title of the first of these works is Synopsis Stirpium
indigenarum Arret gonice, published in 1779, the author of
which, a native of Saragossa, denotes himself by the initi
als C. A. R.          This author quotes a manuscript of Cien-
fuegos, his countryman, who wrote about 1518 on the bo
tany of Arragon, who relates that in his time the Spanish
hunters were still accustomed to poison their arrows, and
that the poison in which they dipped them was so power
ful, that if an animal was in the least wounded the hunter
was sure of his prey.             The vegetable from which they pre-
ollam dc auricholo habente in cooperculo 10 foramina minuta sicot
aihonii,    et pone inius     to pixdicta messa la.'tis vaccini calidi sicuc
mulgetur de vucca lb. 3. et mcllis libram 1. vini aromatki lb. 2. et repone
per dies 20. ad solcm et conserva tt mere.
    " Istius iiaq; dos^s au                              deciina exhibira rr.u.
                               |* ndus 3 4. et hora dici
lieri post ijjsius mer.r.trua cadem nocte concipict si vircum ea agat."
   * From
              HibliQlbtqne Pcysico-rrmomique, an vi.
                                      L2                                pared

1G4    Plants  ttsvd by the  Antientsfor Poisoning t/uir Arrow tt
pared it was the Veralrum album, white hellebore, a plant
Very common in the pasture lands of the alpine mountain*.
To prepare the poison, however, for this purpose required
some dexterity.         Cienfuegos adds, that in his time the
king of Spain        had  a huntsman    who understood it tho
roughly.
   The second work from which I have derived information
on this subject is the History of the War of Grenada under
Philip II., by Mendoza.          This author, so highly esteemed
by the Spaniards for the purity of his style, his impar
tiality, and the extent of his learning, says, that the
poison which the hunters of his country employed at the
time he wrote, that is at the beginning of the seventeenth
ccntifry, was prepared in the mountains of Bejar and
Guadarrama, and was called in that part of Spain El zimw
tie vedegambre.       It was formed into an extract of a reddish
brown colour. Another indigenous poisonous plant, which
the inhabitants called Ycrva, that is to say " the herb," by
way of excellence, was employed for the same purpose in
the high mountains of Grenada : it is the Aconitum lycoc-
tmiitm, or wolf's-banc, which, like the Veralrum, grows
on the high mountains.          The effects produced on the ani
mals wounded by poisoned arrows are, according to Men
doza, the same, whether hellebore or wolf's-bane be em
ployed.      They both consist in sudden and great debility,
coldness, numbness, and cecity : they foam at the mouth,
and are thrown into a slate of convulsion.        Mendoza says,
that two plants, which he indicates only by the Spanish
name's of Membrillo         and Retanifi, with the meaning of
which 1 am not acquainted, were employed as antidotes.
    After I had seen these passages, 1 waS desirous of exa
mining what Mailer says of the plants mentioned in his
Hittoritt Stirpium indigtnarum Helvetia?, or rather in the
French translation which Vicat has given of the part which
relates to the properties of plants.                         <
   "   If it happens," says he,' " that the poison of the T'c-
ratnini peuctrates to the blood, without having lost any of
its force, death immediately ensues, even though introduced
hv a slight wound : this ha* been observed when the an-
tient Portuguese were accustomed to poison their arrows
with the juice of that plant." This observation was con
firmed by the experiments of Matthioli. W hen death takes
place in this manner, putrefaction makes so rapid a pro
gress that the flesh of the animal becomes tender as soon as
it ceases to breathe.       Guilandinus speaks also of the poi
son which the Spaniards prepared from this plant.
                                                             Two

            On the Advantage  of Per'ncopic  Spectacles.     1GA
   Two drachms of a decoction of the root of the Vera t mm
injected into the veins of an animal, throw it immediately
into convulsions, and produce vomiting followed by death,
and almost at the same moment a state of rlaccidity.
    A spirituous infusion, accordinjr to Haller, has more
strength than an aqueous, and the latter more than a de
coction or an extract. There is reason to believe that the
activity of this plant resides in the volatile parts which the
boiling   disengages.
    Under the article black hellebore, llellehorus viridis of
Lihn.xus, Haller says also that this plant serves to poison
arrows ; and he quotes Monardus,           who relates that a
chicken died in consequence of a fibre of black hellebore
being made to pass through its crest.         So deleterious an
action, however, can hardlv be allowed to this hellebore,
since in the time of Columella the root of it was employed
to make sttons for cattle, which were made to pass through
the skin, and particularly of the neck, and thereby excited
suppuration.
    In regard to wolf's-bane, the following observation,
on that species called by Linnseus Aconitum cummarum,
occurs in the work of Haller : — The juice of this plant
bavins been accidentally introduced into a wound, in a very
small quantity, it produced cardialgia, syncope, swelling,
and at length gangrene of the arm.
    It appear* from these facts, that the three plants above
mentioned, but chiefly the Veralrum, were those employed
bv the antient inhabitants of Europe for poisoning their
arrows ; and that the introduction of fire-arms made them
gradually abandon the use of this poison, which was still
employed by the Spaniard.; in the seventeenth century.
XXVIII.       Experiment showing the Advantage     of Periscepic
    Spectacles.    By W. H. Wollaston, M. D. F. R. S.
       SIR,
                        To  Mr. Tilkch.
 J. he opinion given by Mr. Jones, in your last Magazine,
respecting the improved form of spectacle-glasses,            on
which I had delivered my (sentiments in the preceding
number (p. 327), induces me to trouble you once more
upon that subject.
   Jt is wholly unnecessary to make any reply to the van-
                              It 3                           ous

1 66      On the Advantage    of Periscopic Spectacles.
ous   observations of Mr. Jon^s, or to remark upon the
experiment by which he has deceived himself, because
all doubt of the'advantage of the periscopic glasses may be
removed by the following direct comparative trial, which
any person who chooses can repeat without difficulty.
   I have before me two glasses, each of 4 inches posi  "
tive focus," as proposed by Mr. Jones, the one double
convex, which in his judgment is pronounced to be " in
dubitably the best and most convenient that can be devised"
the other a concavo-convex, or meniscus, which he thinks
"  evidently tlie worst of the two for a spectacle-glass."
   When I fix the former at the distance for most distinct
vision opposite to a printed octavo page, and approach
my eye to the glass, I cannot without pain read quite 24
lines ; but upon substituting the periscopic glass, fixed in
the same position, I can discern every word in the page,
which contains 40 lines.
   The enlargement of the field of view observable in this
trial, is sufficient to evince the superior utility of the pe
riscopic glasses ; but were there occasion to compare more
nearly the circular surfaces that may be seen with equal
distinctness by each, they would be found to differ by a
ratio as great as that of three to one.
   The difference is of course more evident in glasses of so
high power, than in those used by most long-sighted per
sons for common purposes ; but it cannot be doubted
that in the latter al3o a' corresponding, though smaller,
inequality subsists, wherever there is the same dissimi
larity of construction, even when the focal distance is
longest.
   The advantage in question is, therefore, indisputably
proved by direct experiment; to the novelty also Mr. Jones
himself has unintentionally contributed very satisfactory
evidence j but as to its importance, those only who have
the misfortune to labour under any defect of vision must
ultimately decide.
                                I remain, Sir,
                        Your obliged humble servant,
March 30, 1804.                         W. H. WOLLASTON.
                                              XXIX.     Process

                                   [        167        ]
XXIX.       Process   for   extracting the Salt, with a Base of
    Lime,    contained     hi Yellow Cinchona. Communicated to
    M. Fourcrov           by   C. Deschamps, of Lyons*.
X     a k e twelve pounds of yellow cinchona, of a good quality,
              and sifted through a hair sieve f*   Put it into a
[munded,
  argc pitcher with a beak, and pour over it fifty French
pints of pure cokl water. Suffer it to macerate for twenty-
four hours, taking care to stir it several times in the course
of the day. Decant it next morning, pouring the liquor,
which has been left to form a deposit during the night,
through a close sieve made of goats' hair. Then pour this
and the following infusions into vessels, which must be
preserved in a cool place :
    Pour over the remaining matter, after the moisture has
been suffered to drain off, thirty French pints of cold water.
Leave it to infuse for twenty-four hours, stirring it as be
fore j then decant the liquor, and pour over the matter, when
well drained, twenty pints of cold water, which makes the
whole of the water to be 100 pints.
    At the end of twelve hours' maceration, squeeze the matter
in a press ; then filter all these infusions united, and put
them to evaporate in a large broad bason of silver, or of
tinned copper. Maintain the evaporation by a gentle heat,
that the liquor may not approach the degree of ebullition ;
and when reduced nearly to a half, pour it into a vessel and
leave it till it is perfectly cold ; then filter     and wash se it,
veral times by pouring water almost cold through the filter
the deposit which has been left upon it.
    Unite these lotions to the filtered liquor, and continue the
evaporation in       smaller vessel until
                      a                          be reduced six or
                                                           it
 Seven pints.    Then  leave    to  cool,
                                       it filter   again and wash
                                                                it
 the resino-mucous matter as before, until the last portions
 furnish very little precipitate       the addition of carbonate
                                                  by
 of potash.
  •   From the Annates de Cbimie, No. 141.
    +  The cinchona which have hitherto employed
                               I                                in
                                                         preference for ex
tracting this salt was the yellow kind.            It
                                           furnished        in more abun
                                                                     it
dance, and presented less difficulty in purification than the red and the
gray, which  I   treated also.  The quantity which       produced may be
                                                                it
estimated at an ounce and three gros per pound of the yellow cinchona
employed.     This result never varied in the specimens        used.   The
                                                                       I
weight of the cinchona    I employed was at least twelve pounds. The lost
 by this quantity was less than    I.had operated with
                                   if                     smaller quantity
                                                                 a              j
the crystals, besides, were larger and more distinct.
                                       L    4                              Continue

1 68                            Trocess   for extracting          the Salt
   Continue this evaporation, filtration, and washing, until
the liquor, by means of a gentle heat, has been brought to
half the consistence of syrup. Then pour the liquid uito a
vessel of earthen ware *, which must be deposited in a cool
place and left at rest for a fortnight.
   At the end of that time pour oft", by inclining the vessel,
the condensed    liquor, which will float over the crystals
that have been fonned. Wash them with a sufficient quan
tity of water, rubbing them gently with a small soft brush,
or the barb of a quill, in order to free them from the thick
extract which adheres to them.
   After this washing, detach the crystals, removing as little
as possible the resino-extractivc matter to which they are
often fixed in this first crystallization  Pound the salt and     f.
dissolve              it,
            triturating     several times itsufficient quantity   in   a
of cold water. Filter these solutions, including the liquor
which arises from the washing of the crystals, and evaporate
the whole to the consistence proper for crystallization                                     X-
     By this first purification you will obtain crystals very
little coloured, and much less mixed with substances foreign
to the salt. If you wish to obtain them of greater degree                  a
of purity, you must proceed to second purification in the
                                                        a
following manner                   ;
    After liaving washed and detached the crystals, dissolve
them qold as before     filter the liquid, wash the deposit,
                                          ;
and reduce the whole                           by
                              slow evaporation to the proper
degree.
     The         salt obtained      will        be exceedinely beautiful and per
fectly pure.                Its crystals        are formed of lamina; truncated
     •
           For ;hese crystallizations          I    prefer flat dishes to those    which         are
conical.
     •)•   If         been taken to filter the liquor several times, accord
                care has
ing as      it concentrated, and always after
                 is                                 has been suffered to cool,
                                                             it
itwill   be so much freed from the resino-gumrny            part, that after the
first crystallization, though the saline mass will still be of russet colour,  a
the base of the crystals will be free from that matter which            was my     it
chief object to remove.                                      •
    The small portion of salt which had the pleasure of sending to you
                                                    I
arose from the first crystallization alone. When the infusion was reduced
to six or seven pints,      took c.irc in the course of the subsequent evapora
                                  1
tion to fi(ter     cold at three different times. By pursuing this course, very
                       it
little matter adheres to the saline crust, and the supernatant extractive
matter can be separated with the greater facility.
J     The more advanced in the purification of my salt, the less thick*,
                            I                                                           T
encd the liquor: the degree of concentration must be proportioned to the
quantity of extractive or resino-rnucous matter         may have contained,
                                                                  it                              {t
is   nut easy to hit this point.
                                                                                                 at

                  contained   in Yellow Cinchona.                ] 69
at their extremity and applied obliquely to each       other     :   I
propose to call it cinchonute of lime.
   I have several times obtained in the crystallized mass a
different disposition ; which struck me the more, as it is not
often found, namelv, in groups, perfectly round and re
gular in the divergency oi the laminae of which they are
composed. They are in a manner insulated, and each of
them exhibits a summit which hangs over the plane surface
of the other crystals. This variation in the assemblage took
place only in the first crystallizations : I never observed it
m those which produced the purified salt.
   The process here indicated is not sufficient, as may rea
dily be conceived, to extract from cinchona the whole of
the salt it is capable of furnishing.    The thick liquor which
floated over the first crystallization, and which has been laid
aside, still contains a great deal of it. To obtain        it,the
extractive matter must De freed as much as possible from
the other two immediate materials of cinchona which op
pose most the separation of the saline substance, the resin
and the mucous matter, which are extracted separately or
combined.
   For this purpose, when wished to ascertain in the most
                               I
precise manner the quantity of this salt which yellow cin
chona might contain, confining myself always to water as
an agent, I    treated, cold, this compound extract, as indi
cated for the purification of the first product, and repeating
the dilution, filtration, and evaporation,   I   found means to
insulate, in  a  manner, the extract of cinchona, which when
thus treated retains scarcely any thing but the mucous part.
   When the saline liquor, thus purified, refused to furnish
crystals,
        I     united it to that which floated over the salt car
ried to the highest degree of purity, mentioned in the first
article of this process.      This mixture still furnished me
with abundance, and in the last result the liquor      I    aban
doned had still such saline appearance as to give me reason
                       a
to expect something more to add to my recapitulation of its
contents.     On examination       I found nothing but products
similar to those which     I obtained from the decomposition
of the crystallized salt. The matter which precipitated
                                                 I                   is
absolutely of the same nature           isonly more coloured in
                                   j
                                   it
proportion to the resino-extractive matter     it contains.
    The means which    I  have here described are attended with
considerable embarrassment, and require      a good deal of time
and expense, which no doubt might be avoided         by  treating
the bark differently.     I have several times thought, that         by
                                                      employing

 170                      On Galvanism.
employing fewer lotions, infusions, &c,         I should obtain a
less quantity of salt, but that, as this would change nothing
in the nature of the product, I should find it more advan
tageous.
   Having in     the first place proceeded to an analysis, and
wishing     that as little of the salt as possible should escape
me,    I conducted   the process in a rigorous manner ; and
since that time I have practised the same manipulation.
   There is reason, however, to think that the operation
might be much shortened by the help of alcohol : as this
fluid has no action on the calcareous salt of cinchona, it
might be employed two ways to remove the resin, which
forms the greatest obstacle to the extraction of this saline
substance, either by subjecting the cinchona in its natural
state to the alcohol before proceeding to aqueous infusion,
or by exposing to its action the extractive matter which
results from the concentration of the first infusions.
         XXX.     On Galvanism.     By   a Correspondent.
                          To Mr. Tilloch.
       SIR,
Not having       seen or heard any satisfactory hypothesis con
 cerning the increased effect produced by the Galvanic bat
tery upon animals by increasing the number of plates, and
upon metals by enlarging their surface, I beg, through your
valuable miscellany, to call the attention ot Mr. Daw and
other philosophers to the subject ; and shall be happy to re
ceive, through the same channel, an explanation of these
 apparently inconsistent phenomena.
    It is well known that the effect on animal bodies is pro
 portionate to the series or number of plates of which the
battery is composed, and that on metals it increases with
the area or surface of the plates employed.        The fact is at
tempted to be accounted for upon the supposition that the
 skin, from being an imperfect conductor, is capable of
transmitting only a certain portion of Galvanic fluid, and
that metals, being perfect conductors, can transmit any in
definitely larger quantity. But thus theory, although it may
be supported by experiment when equal numbers of 3mall
and large plates are employed, does not appear to me to
account for the phenomena when different numbers of
plates.of equal sizes are used.
                                                       I conceive

                           On Galvanism.                                \j\
   I conceive the following propositions will be admitted as-
axioms in this science:
   1st, The quantity of fluid evolved is proportionate to the
quantity of metal oxidated, whether the oxidation of the;
metal be the mediate or immediate cause of its evolution.
   2d, The quantity of metal oxidated is in proportion to
the extent or surface exposed to the action of a proportionate
quantity of acid. Thus four parts of acid will produce four
times as much oxide from an eight-inch plate, as one part
would from a plate of four inches.
   3d, The fluid evolved       is,from the equal attraction of
equal portions of the conducting body for equal portions of
the fluid, diffused equally over every equal portion of the
conducting substances of which the battery             iscomposed,
in proportion to the conducting powers of each respec
tively.
   4th, The quantity of fluid transmitted through metallic
arcs  ismeasured by the degree pi ignition produced.
   5th, The intensity of the shock received          is the measure
of the quantity of fluid transmitted through animals.
   Hence   it will follow, that from battery of 25 eight-inch
                                       a
plates, or of 100 of four inches, four times as much fluid
will be evolved as from one of 25 four-inch plates, sup
posing the distance between the plates equal, and the same
proportion of acid employed in both cases or, in other
                                                     ;
words, the fluid evolved will be as the area of all the plates
taken together, and   it  will be equally diffused over the whole
surface of each battery in proportion to the conducting power
of its several parts.
   Now suppose the skin, from its imperfect conducting
power, incapable of transmitting more fluid than              evolved-
                                                             is
from  a  battery of 25  four-inch   plates, and  that  this  supposi
tion will account for the intensity of the shock not being              in
creased when 25 eight-inch plates are used       ;   so far the fact-
and theory would agree.         But under other circumstances
this theory involves contradiction and absurdity.             For ex
ample, as no difference in the intensity of the shock             is
                                                                 per
ceived, whether 25 four-inch or 25 eight-inch plates be
used, the skin cannot transmit more fluid than              given out
                                                            is
 by 25 four-inch plates.
   But the skin will transmit from          100 four-inch         plates  a
greater quantity of fluid than from        25 plates      of the     same
size  ;
   Therefore the greater and lesser quantities are equal   for      :
the skin cannot at the same time have, and not have, the
           3                                             power

   17*        Geological Delineation     of South America.
  power of transmitting any excess of. fluid above a given
  quantity, suppose that produced by 25 four-inch plates.
      Some other theory must therefore, it appears to me, be
  necessarily resorted to.      I am, sir,
                                        Your obedient servant,
  March i», 1804.                                              B. E.
  XXXI.      Sketch  of  a Geological Delineation   of South Ame
                rica.    By F. A. Vox Humboldt.
                          [Concluded from p. 36.]
  JtIaVino already given a cursory view of the general ap
  pearance which the mountains of South America exhibit to
  the eye of the geologist, I shall now enumerate the different
  kinds of mountains which I have hitherto discovered in that
  country, beginning with       tins oldest.
                       I.  Primitive Mountains.
      Granite. —The whole cordilleraof Pariina, and particu
 larly the neighbourhood of the volcanoes of Duida and Mar-
 cielago, consist of granite, which docs not form a transition
 into gneiss. In the cordillera of the coast it is almost every
 where covered and mixed with gneiss and micaceous schist.
  I saw it disposed in strata of from two to three feet in thick
 ness, exceedingly regular, declining from three to four per
 league, towards the north-west between Valencia and Porto-
 cabcllo.     I found it on the Rincon del Diablo south-east
 from Portocabello, with large and beautiful crystals of feld
 spar an inch and a half in diameter, like the large grained
           on the high summits of the Sclmeegebirg and the
franite
   'ichtelberg,   those of Scotland and Chamouni.         It is here
split into regular prisms ; and I saw it on Calavera du Cerro
de Mariana beyond (Jura, and on the Silla de Caracas,
 in this prismatic form, which the learned mineralogist
M. Karstcn observed on the Schncekoppe in Silesia. The
northern part of Germany, and the lands on the Baltic in
Europe, but not the plain to the south of the Fichtelberg
in Swabia and Bavaria, are full of monstrous blocks of gra-.
nite which have rolled down from the heights.            In neither
of the llanos of South America, that of Orinoco, and that
of the Amazon river, did we find any such masses, and no
fragments of primitive mountains.            The granite mountains
of Los Marichcs near Caracas, and those of Torrito be
                                                              tween

           Geological Delineation  of South America,        1 73
tween Valencia and     St. Carlos, and that of Sierra Ncveda
de Merida, contain, like that of St. Gothard, fissures which
arc covered with very beautiful and large rock crystals.
    The granite is covered with gneiss and micaceous schist,
particularly on the cordillera of the coast of Venezuela.
Gneiss is abundant in particular from Cape Chichibocoa to
Cape Codera in the Tequez, Cocuiza, and the mountain
Guigne, as well as in the islands of the Lake of Valencia,
where I found (on Cape Blanc, opposite toGuacara,) blackish
quartz in the gneiss which passes into Lydian stone, or
rather into the schistous state of Werner. The Macanao
on Margaret's island, and the whole cordillera on the isth
mus of Cariaco, is nothing else than micaceous schist full
of red garnets; and at Maniquarez it is combined with a
little cyanitc. Green garnets are intermixed with the gneiss
of the mountain Avila. In the gneiss of the rock Cala-
micari in Cassiquiarc, and in the granite of Las Trincheras
near Valencia,     I saw round masses, from three to four
inches in diameter, interspersed, which consisted of finer
grained granite, yellow feldspar, a great deal of quartz, and
scarcely any mica.     Is this old granite contained in some
of later formation, or are these masses, which have the ap
pearance of accumulations, merely the effect of attraction,
which here and there made the particles to approach nearer
to each other, but at the same time that the whole moun
 tain was formed ? This phenomenon of one kind of gra
nite interspersed in the other is observed also in Silesia, at
Wunsiedel, on the Fichtelberg, in Chamounij on St. Ber
 nard, on the Escurial, and in Galicia.     Nature is uniform
 in her natural productions, even to the small variations in
proportions.
    The micaceous schist passes into talc schist in the cor
dillera of the coast, on the mountain Capaya, and on the
Ouebrada Sccca, in the valley del Tuy.        In the cordillera
 of Parima talc is found in very large shining masses, and
this has contributed so much to the celebrity of the Do
 rado, or Cerro Ucucuamo, between the river Esquivo and
 Mao, in the island Pumacena. The bright fiery appearance
 exhibited sometimes by the truncated pyramids of the large
 Cerro Calitamini, near Cunavami, at sun-setting, seems also
 to proceed from a stratum of talcy schist cut perpendicu
 larly towards the west.
     Small idols of nephrite, which I saw brought from Ero-
 vato, show that to the south of Randal de Mura there are
 nephrite rocks in gneiss like those I found at the bottom of
 St. Gothard, near Ursern.     This formation was repeated by,
                                                        nature

   174       Geological Delineation  of South America.
  nature in the land of the Tupihambaros Indians.       La Con-
  damine discovered this variation of the hard nephrite, which
  is known under the name of the Amazon stone.
     The granite, gneiss, and micaceous schist, contain here,
  as in Europe, strata of chlorite schist arranged under each
  other in the sea at Cape Blanc west from Guayra.         Very
  pure and beautiful hornblend schist is found in the streets of
   Guyana ; and, still more south, in the cordillera of Parima,
  feldspar effloresces into porcelain earth in the Silla de Ca
  racas ; strata of quartz, with magnetic iron-stone, is found
  at the sources of the Cutuche, near Caracas ; grained folia-
  ceous, primitive limestone, without tremolite, but with a
  great deal of sulphureous pyrites and sparry iron-stone, on
  the Quebrada dc Topo on, the road from Caracas to Guayra.
  This limestone is entirely wanting in the cordillera of Pa-
  rima, where it has been sought for many years. Zeichen
  schist, a kind of carbonaceous iron, and pretty pure gra
  phite, are found in the Quebrada de Tocume near Chacao,
  in the Quebrada Secca near Tuy, and north from the La
  cuna Chi'ca ; on the difficult road which leads across the
  isthmus of Cariaco to Chiparipara, there are found veins
  of quartz, which contain auriferous sulphureous pyrites
  and antimony, native gold, gray silver ore, mountain blue,
  malachite, &c.
     The copper ore of Aroa is the only kind here taken from
  the earth : sixty or seventy slaves obtain yearly 1500 quin
  tals at most of refined copper.       The quintal is sold for
  twelve piastres.    The valley in which this ore is dug up is
  less unhcalthful than the valleys near the sea where the
  Indians wash gold ; namely, Urama, Maron, and Alpago-
1 ton, where the air
                        appears to be poisonous, as is the case
  in the fertile valley of Cararinas between Nirgua and Rio
  Jaracuy.    The gold is dispersed throughout the whole pro
 vince, particularly in the strata of quartz at Baruta, Catia,
  Guigne, Quebrada del Oro near Tuy, and on the Cerro de
  Chacao, and Real de Santa Barbara near St. John, where
  I found barytic spar, the only instance I ever met with in
 this country.     All the rivers of the province of Characas,
 wash down gold.        It however does not thence follow that
 this province is rich, and contains veins of gold not yet
 discovered : the gold may be interspersed in whole masse*
 of granite ; and I am acquainted with no high granite cor
 dillera, either here or in Europe, the rivers of which do
 not wash down gold. The Cerro Duida of Esmeralda in
 Dorado, the Quebrada du Tigre near Encaramada, and the
  Cerros de Amoco,- the Real de S. Barbara near St. John,
                                                            the

         Geological Delineation      of South America.          175
the Quebrada dc Catia, the alum ore of Chuparuparu, some
traces of iron ore in the llano of St. Sebastian, and par
ticularly the Aroa abundant in copper, seem to call for the
industry of the miners.
   Argillaceous schist is very scarce : it covers the micace
ous schist on the southern declivity of Venezuela, in the
neighbourhood of the Llanos, in the Ouebradas deMalparo,
and Piedra Azul : there is blue argillaceous schist, with
veins of quartz, on the isthmus of Cariaco, near Chupa
ruparu, in the Distillador Arroyo du Robola, and also on
Macanao.      In the four last-mentioned places there are
found in the argillaceous schist alum and vitriolic schist, in
strata of two or three feet in thickness, which effloresce
sulphate of alumine, or natural alum, with which the Indi
ans of Guayqueries carry on a little trade.
   Serpentine is found on the cordillcra of Venezuela above
micaceous schist, on the surface of Villa de Cura, at the
height of 245 toises ; between the Cerro dc Piedras Negras
and the Rio Tucutimemo, here and there green olivin mixed
with glimmer, without garnets, schillerspath, or hornblend,
but with veins'of bluish lardstone.
   Grunstein (green rock), original trapp, an intimate union
of hornblend and feldspar, sometimes intermixed with sul
phureous pyrites and quartz, often confounded with ba-
saltes, and very little known in Europe, is found in strata
of two fathoms in thickness, or balls of from three to four
feet in diameter, composed of concentric strata united with
micaceous schist or original argillaceous schist, in several
places of the northern and southern declivity of the Cordil
lera of the mountain Avila, in the sea near Cape Blanc, in
a real vein which traverses the strata of gneiss, but inter
mixed with newer granite, which fills up the vein between
Antimano and Carapa near Caracas. The gray stone con
tains here red garnets which I have never seen in Europe^
 I have sent specimens of them to Madrid in the first box
 which I transmitted to the captain-general of Caracas.
II. Kind of     Mountains       which form    the Transition   from
   Primitive    to   Alluvial    Mountains.     Formation      of'   the
   Transition   of   IVcrner.
   This formation     found in particular to the north of the
                       is
 Parima cordillera, opposite to Caccara, and in large masses
 on the southern declivity of the Venezuela cordillera.   Be
 tween the llanos and Morros of S. Juan, between the Villa
 de Gura and Parapara, between longitude o° 33' and        j', 9°
                                                               j
 one seems to enter    land of basaltes, on descending from
                        a
                                                                     the

   176      Geological Delineation    of South America*
  the height   of  300  to 63 toises above the level    of the sc*<
  Every thing reminds one here of the mountains of Bilin
  in Bohemia, or of Vienza in Italy.           The primitive ser-
  pentin on the banks of the Tucutunemo, which like that of
  Silesia contains copper veins, becomes gradually mixed
  with feldspar and hornblcnd, and makes the transition into
  trapp or grunstein.      Thistrapp is found in stratified masses
  declining 70° towards the north, or in balls with concen
  tric strata, which, interspersed in calcareous clay, form
  pyramidal hills ; sometimes the transition argillaceous
  schist of Werner is interspersed in green and very heavy
  argillaceous schist, which consists of hornblcnd and argil
  laceous schist intimately mixed together.       The same argil
  laceous schist makes a transition near the Quebrada de
  Piedras Azules into the primitive argillaceous schist above;
  which it lies. The trapp or grunstein contains also foliace-
  ous olivin, crystallized in pyramids of four faces, a fossil
  which M. Friesleben discovered on our tour into Bohemia,
  and described in the Mineralogical       Journal of Freyberg,
  augite   with   a shelly  fracture, leucite  in dodecaedra, the
  sides of the holes and cavities of which are covered with
  green earth like that of Verona, and a substance which
  has the splendour of mother-of-pearl,       and which I consi
  der as zeolite.    All these interspersed fossils increase to
  wards Parapara, and the trapp there forms real amygdalite.
  Above this amygdalite, near the hill Florez, at the entrance
  into the large valley of Orinoco, lies that remarkable stone
  which is scarce in Europe, and which Werner describes
  under the name of poq>hvry schist.            The hornschist of
  Charpentier, a kind of rock which accompanies basalte.*,
  forms groups of irregular columns, and by the impression
  of the ferns which it contains in the middle of the moun
  tains, as discovered by M. Ucuss, proves that it is not of
  volcanic origin. The porphyry schist of Parapara is a green
  mass of sonorous stone, which is very hard, acute angled,
  and has transparent fragments on the edges : it strikes fire
  with steel, and contains vitreous feldspar. I did not ex
  pect to find this stone again in South America ; it however
  does not form here such groups of grotesque appearance as
  in Bohemia, and on mount Eugoneidc in the Venetian ter
  ritories, where I have seen it.
                      III.  Alluvial Mountains.
     These secondary formations, which are of later origin
  than the organic bodies of the earth, follow each other in
  the order ot ihe'u relative age, as in the plains of Europe,
      *                                                        and
^

            Geological Delineation of South America.         177
and    as has been  mentioned by that excellent geologist    M.
Von Buch, in his Mineralogical Description of the County
of Glatz in Silesia, a small work, which contains valuable
ideas and interesting observations.
    I found here two formations of compact limestone. The
one makes a transition into the small grained and imper
ceptibly foliaceous limestone, and is identic with the lime
stone of the high Alps ; the other is compact, exceedingly
homogeneous, with several petrifactions of shells, and ana
logous to the limestone of Jura, Pappenheim, Gibraltar,
Verona, Dalmatia, and Suez ; a formation of foliaceous
gypsum, and another mixed with clay, containing common
salt and rock oil.     The saline clay which I always found
accompanied     with  rock salt in the Tyrol, Steyermark, and
Salzbourg    in Swisserland   ; marl schist stratified in lime
stone of the Alps, and two formations of sandstone, one
of which is older and almost without petrifactions, some
times small and large-grained sandstone of the llanos, and
the other full of the remains of marine animals, which
forms the transition into the compact limestone.
    The blue limestone of the Alps, with white veins of cal
careous spar, is found on the micaceous schist lying upon
the Ouebrada Secca near Tuy to the east from the Punta
Delgada, on the road from Cumana, on the Impossible
towards Bordones, on the island of Trinidad, and on the
mountain Paria. This limestone contains here, as in Swis
serland, three formations arranged under each other :—
 1st, Repeated strata of black marl schist; marl schist, or
cupreous schist of Thuringia, mixed with pyrites, and earth
pitch on the Cuchivana near Cumanacoa.           This clay con
tains carbon, and absorbs the oxygen of the atmospheric
air.    2d, Saline clay mixed with rock salt and crystallized
gypsum, in which the salt pits of Araga, Pozuelas, and
Margaret's Island are placed.         3d, Small-grained sand
stone, with a calcareous base, almost without petrifactions
of shells, always penetrated by water, and sometimes with
brown strata of ferruginous earth on the Cocollard, Tamir-
quiri. I am not certain whether the last-mentioned stone
 lies on the limestone, or is not sometimes covered by it.
    This limestone serves as the base for a newer one. It is
 exceedingly white and compact, full of holes (Cueva del
 Guacharo, in which thousands of birds reside, and among
 which is a new genus of Caprimulgus, from which a kind
 of fat much used in the country is obtained, Cueva del
 S. Juan, Cueva del Cuchivano) ; sometimes porous like
 the Franconian, and forms grotesque rocks (Morros de
    Vol. XVIII. No. 70.           M                     S. Juan

1 "8       Geological Delineation      of South America.
S. Juan,    de S. Sebastian).        It contains strata of black
hornstone,     which passes into siliceous schist or       Lydian
stone   (Morro dc Barcelona) and Egyptian jasper            to the
south of Curataquiche.         Over this compact limestone is
placed, as on Jura, very beautiful alabaster in large masses
at Soro, in Golfo Triste. All this gypsum contains sulphur
as well as the gypsum of Bex and Krctzetzow,           and in the
Carpathians.       This formation of limestone, with black
hornstone and gypsum, seems also to occur in the valley
of the Amazon and Rio Negro, where they were found by
la Condamine near Cuenca, between Racam and Guyausi,
on the east side of the Andes.
   This limestone and gypsum (the latter in the llano of
Barcelona near Cachip6) are often covered in the valleys of
Orinoco, and the Amazon river, by a conglomeration or
sandstone, with large strata, in which the remains of lime
stone, quartz, Lydian stone, all of greater antiquity than
the sandstone itself, occur.        This conglomeration, breccia,
which has a similarity to that of Aranjuez, Salzburg, &c,
is extended over more than 18000 square miles in the
llanos.    It contains strata with small grains and traces of
brown and red iron ore. I have never seen petrifactions
in it.
   The   sandstone   full of shells  and coral, without any traces
of crocodiles in   a country    which unfortunately contains so
many, and which passes into limestone, but on closer ex
amination is intermixed with grains of quartz, is of newer
formation, and always nearer the coasts : P* Araya, Cabo
Blanco, Castillo, S. Antonio de Cumana.
   It may perhaps be expected that I should close this de
scription with an enumeration of the volcanic productions
of this country, which has been convulsed by the most
terrible earthquakes, the high summits of which (Duida),
and lately some of its caverns (Cueva du Cuchivano), vomit
forth flames, where boiling springs are thrown up from
Golfo Triste to the Sierra Nevada de Merida (the springs
of Triachevar I found to be 720,3 of Reaumur), where, on
the coast of Paria, near Cumacator, there is an air volcano,
the noise of which is heard at a great distance, and sul
phureous pits in several places as at Guadaloupc —a coun
try where, in the extent of several square miles, the whole
surface is undermined and hollow (Tierra Hueca de Cari-
aco), where, in the year 1766, the earth, after being agi
tated eleven months by violent shocks, opened on all sides,
and poured forth sulphureous water and bitumen ; and
where, in the midst of the driest plains in the Mera de
         3                                               Guanipa

 Condition of the Inhabitants    of the Cape   of Good Hope.      179
 Guanipa and du Cary, flames burst from the earth.                But
 nature discharges me from this task.                 The effects of
 the volcanoes in this part of the world are very different
 from those seen in Europe.        Great and melancholy in their
 consequences,     they  change  the rocks which are exposed to
 their action.    The immense revolution of Pelileo and Ton-
 guragua de Zuito has not only covered the earth with
lava, but with clayey mud, deposited by the sulphureous
 water which spouted from the earth. The sulphureous
 gypsum, the mixture of sulphureous pyrites in all the
 rocks, even in granite, the bituminous saline clay, the
 rock oil, or asphal turn , which every where floats on the water
 or lies on the ground, the immeasurable quantity of rain
 water, and the lakes which penetrate into the earth heated
 by the sun, the aqueous vapours and immense quantities of
 hydrogen gas every where disengaged, seem to be the prin
 cipal causes which contribute to produce these volcanic
 effects.
    The, sulphureous pits of Guadaloupe, of Montmisenc,
 St. Christopher de l'Oualiban, St. Lucia, and Montserrat,
 are in all probability connected with those on the coast of
 Paria. These volcanoes, however, belong rather to the pro
 vince of natural philosophy than of mineralogy 5 and I must
 visit other countries before I can venture to form any opi
 nion on so difficult a subject. May Heaven avert from the
 eastern side of New Andalusia such a catastrophe             as' that
 which has convulsed the plains of Pelileo !
 XXXII.      Observations on the Condition of the Inhabitants       of
                     the Cape of Good Hope *.
 If   the condition of mankind was to be estimated entirely
 by the means it possessed of supplying an abundance or
 preventing a scarcity of the necessary articles of life, and it
must be confessed they constitute a very essential part of its
comforts, the European colonists of the Cape of Good
Hope might be pronounced amongst the happiest of men.
 But as all the pleasures of this world are attended with evils,
like roses placed on stems that are surrounded with thorns,
 so these people, in the midst of plenty unknown in other
rountries, can scarcely be considered as objects of envy.
Debarred from every mental pleasure arising from the perusal
of books or the frequent conversation of friends, each sue
                    •
                      From Barrow's Travels, vol, ii.
                                M  2                         ceeding

ISO            On the Condition  of the Inhabitants
cecding day is a repetition of the past, whose irksome
sameness is varied only by the accidental call of a traveller,
the less welcome visits of the Bosjesmans, or the terror or
being put to death by their own slaves, or the Hottentots-
in their employ. Trie only counterpoise to this wearisome
and miserable state of existence, is a superfluity of the ne
cessaries of life, as far as regards the support of the animal
functions, which all, of every description among the colo
nists, have the means of acquiring with little exertion either
of body or mind.
    A short sketch of the circumstances and resources of the
several classes of the colonists will be sufficient to convey a
general idea of their respective conditions.        The twenty-
two thousand Christian inhabitants that compose the popu
lation of this colony maybe reduced into four classes:
               1 . People of the town.
               2. Vine-growers.
               3. Grain-farmers.
                                                       -
               4. Graziers.                              ¦
     1. The people of the town we have already observed tor
 be an idle, dissolute race of men, subsisting chiefly by the
 labour of their slaves.    In order to derive a fixed income,
 and to avoid any trouble, they require each slave to bring
 them a certain sum at the end of every week ; all that he
 can earn above this sum is for himself, and many are in
 dustrious enough to raise as much money in a few years as-
 is sufficient to purchase their freedom, and sometimes that
 of their children. The price of provisions, and the price of
 labour, bear no sort of proportion : Butchers' meat is only
 about twopence a pound, and good brown bread, such as
 all the slaves eat, one penny a pound.     A common labour
ing slave gets from two shillings to half-a-crown a day, and
 a mechanic or artificer five and six shillings a day. The
people of Cape Town are slmost all of them petty dealers,
 and they have a remarkable propensity for public vendues.
Not a Jay passes without several of these being held both
before and after dinner.      And it is no uncommon thing to
 see the same identical articles exposed at two different sales
 the same day.      In fact, a vendue is a kind of lottery. A
 man buys a set of goods in the morning which he acain
 exposes to sale in the evening, sometimes gaining, and
 sometimes losing.      Yet all moveable property on sale by
 public auction is liable to a duty of rive per cent, 3-J of
 which the auctioneer is accountable for to government ; the
 remainder is for himself.     I cannot give a stronger instance
 of the rage for vendues than by observing that, in four suc
                                                          cessive

                   of  tfie Cape of Good Hope.              181
cessive    months of the year 1901, the amount of pro
perty    sold  by public auction was 1,500,000 rix dollars,
a sum equal to the whole quantity of paper money in
circulation, which, indeed, may be considered as the only
money, of late years, that has circulated in the country. In
what manner, therefore, these articles were to be paid for is
a sort of mystery, which, however, the. declining state of
the colony may before this have explained.                •
   The better sort of people are those who are employed in
the different departments of government, but their salaries
were so small that most of them were petty merchants.
Others have estates in the country, and derive a revenue
from their produce. Others again are a sort of agents for
the country boors, and keep houses to lodge them when
they make their annual visit to the town.     These are a kind
of jew brokers, who live entirely by defrauding the simple
boors, in disposing of their produce and purchasing for
them necessaries in return.       A boor in the Cape can do
nothing for himself.        Unaccustomed to any society but
those of his family and his Hottentots,, he is the most auk-
ward and helpless being on earth when he gets into Cape
Town, and neither buys nor sells but through his agent.
The emancipated slaves and people of colour are generally
artificers; many of them support their families by fishing.
During the whole year there is great plenty and variety of
fish caught in Tabic Bay, and cheap enough for the very
poorest to make a daily use of.
    House-rent, fuel, and clothing arc all dear ; yet, I will
be bold to say, there is no town nor city in all Europe,
where the mass of the people arc better lodged or better
clothed ; and fire is less necessary here than in most parts
of Europe. The keep of a horse in Cape Town was never
less, under the English government, than 25l. sterling a
year, yet every butcher, baker, petty shopkeeper, and artifi
cer, had his team of four, six, or eight horses, and his chaise.
 It is true, his horses were lent out for hire one dav, and
 drew himself and his family another ; but still it seemed in
 explicable how they contrived to keep up an establishment
 so much beyond their apparent means.        Their creditors, I
 imagine, long before this, will best be abie to give a satis
 factory explanation, since British money has ceased to cir
 culate among them.
    It is true they are neither burthened with taxes nor assess
 ments. Except on public vendues and transfer of immov
 able property, government has been remarkably tender, in
 imposing on them burthens, which, however, they might
                                  M3                        very

182             On the Condition         of   the Inhabitants
very well afford to bear.   Their parochial assessments are
equally moderate,   At the first establishment of the colony,
a kind of capitation tax was levied under the name of lion
and tyger money.     The fund so raised was applied to the
encouragement of destroying beasts of prey, of which these
two were considered as the most formidable.             But as lions
and tygers have long been as scarce in the neighbourhood of
the cape, as wolves are in England, the name of the assess
ment has been changed, though the assessment itself re
mains, and is applied to the repairs of the roads, streets,
water-courses, and other public works.            The sum to be
raised is fixed by the police, and the quota assigned to each
is proportioned to the circumstances of the individual ; the
limits of the assessment being from half-a-crown to forty
shillings.    The persons liable must be burghers, or such as
arc above sixteen years of age, and enrolled among the.
burgher inhabitants. The ordinary amount is fixed at about
five thousand rix dollars a year.
   Another assessment, to which heads of families are liable,
is called chimney and hearth money.             This            is,
                                                            properly
speaking,  a   house  tax, fixed  at the rate of  eighteen pence      a
month, or 4.^ rix dollars aycar, for every house or fire-place.
This should seem to be an unfair assessment, as the richest
and the poorest inhabitant, the man with           large house and
                                                       a
he who possesses only        cottage, arc liable to the same con
                               a
tribution; as   it   presumed that every house has its kitchen
                     is
fire-place and no other. The amount of this assessment                is
about five thousand two hundred rix dollars, which, at the above
rate, corresponds very nearly with the number of houses in
the town.
    They are subject to no tvthes nor church-rates whatso
ever towards the maintenance of the clergy; these being
paid in the most liberal manner out of the treasury of go
vernment.       Nor     any demand made upon them for the
                          is
support of the poor.       The very few that, through age or
infirmities, are unable to maintain themselves, arc support
ed out of the superfluities of the church.              Where the
mere articles of eating and drinking are so reasonably pro
cured as   in  the Cape,       it no great degree of chanty for
                                    is
the rich to support their poor relations, and, accordingly,           it
is  the common practice of the country.          Those who come
under the denomination of poor are, for the most part,
 emancipated slaves, who may not have the benefit of such
relations. Nor does the church provide for such on uncer
 tain grounds.    Every person manumitting           slave must pay
                                                        a
to the church fifty rix dollars^ ortcn pounds, and at the same
                                                                time

                   of tlie Cape  of  Good Hope.                  183
  time give security that such slave shall not become burthen-
 come to the church for a certain number of years.
     The police of the town is committed to the management
 of a board consisting of six burghers, called the burgher
  senate.   The functions of this board arc various and im
 portant; but they are performed in that careless and slovenly
 manner which is ever the cass where men arc compelled to
 accept an office to which there is annexed neither pay nor
 emolument.      The only exception that I know of is in the
 situation of an English justice of peace.          In every public
 employment of a permanent nature,       like  that  of the burgher
 senate,  if the emoluments    are not such   as to  make it worth
 a man's while to keep his place, the odds are great that the
duties of. it will be neglected.      This was the rock upon
 which the Dutch, in all their East India settlements, split.
 The appointments of their servants were so small, that those
 who held them could not live without cheating their em
ployers ; and this was carried on to such an extent, as to
become a common observation, that in proportion as the
 Company's finances were impoverished, their servants were
 enriched.
    The business of the burgher senate consists in seeing that
 the streets be kept clean and in proper repair; that no nui
 sance be thrown into the public avenues leading to the townj
 that no encroachments be made on public property ; that no
 disorderly houses be suffered to remain; no impositions
 practised on the public ; no false weights normeasures used.
They are authorized to regulate the prices of bread ; to en
quire from time to time into the state of the harvest ; and to
take precautions against a scarcity of corn.        They are to de
vise measures and suggest plans to government that may
seem proper and effective for keeping up a constant succes
sion of coppice wood for fuel in the Cape district.           They
arc directed to take particular care that the tradesmen of the
town, and more especially the smiths and cartwrights, im
pose not on the country boors in the prices of utensih ne
cessary for carrying on the business of agriculture.          They
are to report such crimes, trespasses, and misdemeanors, as
come within their knowledge, to the Fiscal, who is the
chief magistrate of the police, and attorney-general of the
colony.
    It would be in vain to expect that such various and im
portant duties should be faithfully fulfilled for a number of
years without any consideration of profit or hope of reward ;
or that every advantage would not be taken which the situa
tion might offer. Some of the members of the burgher       ~
                                                                se-
                                M  4                           na.te

1S4            On tlie Condition of the Inhabitants
nate sent their old and infirm slaves to work at the public
roads, and received for them the same wages as were paid to
able-bodied men ; others had teams of horses and waggons
that never wanted employ.      These things are trifling in
themselves, but the public business suffered by it. When
the English took the place, the streets were in so ruinous a
condition as scarcely to be passable with safety.      A small
additional assessment was laid upon the inhabitants, and
in the course of five years they had nearly completed a
thorough repair of the streets, to the great improvement of
the town.     If they should be induced to light the streets
with lamps, it would not only add greatly to the embellish
ment of the town, but prevent a number of accidents that
happen in the night time among the slaves.       It would also
tend to the encouragement of the whale fisher)' there.     But
the greatest of all improvements, and one easily to be ac
complished, would be to conduct the water into the houses.
The head of the spring, wTiere it flows into the pipes which
conduct it to the present fountains, is higher than the roof
of the highest house in the town ; yet, by a strange piece of
ignorance or pcrverscness,   they have carried it down to the
lowest point on the plain leading to the castle, so that those
who live at the upper end of the town have half a mile to
fetch water, which is done by two slaves, who consume
many hours in the day       this employ, and are
                             iti                     great an^
                                                      a
noyance to the public fountain, where they are quarrelling
and fightine; from morning till night.
    The pleasures of the inhabitants are chieflv of the sen
sual kind, and those of eating, drinking, and smoking pre
dominate; principally the two latter, which, without much
intermission, occupv the whole dav. They have no relish
for public amusements. Thev have no exercise but that of
dancing.    A new theatre was erected, but plays were con
sidered to be the most stupid of all entertainments, whether
the performance was English, French, or German.             To
listen three hours to   conversation was of all punishments
                         a
the most dreadful.   I  remember, on one occasion only, to
have observed the audience highly entertained    ;  this was at
an old German soldier smoking his pipe; and the encourage
ment he met with in this part of his character was so great,
and his exertions proportioned to    it,that the whole house
was presently in cloud of tobacco smoke.
                 a
   There  is neither bookseller's shop in the whole town,
                     a
nor book society. A club called the Concordia has lately
      a
aspired to collection of books, but the pursuits of the prin
          a
cipal part of the members are drinking, smoking, and
                                                          gaming.

                   qf the Cape  of  Good Hope.                 186
  gaming.      Under the direction of the church is a library,
  which was left by an individual for the use of the public,
 but the public seldom trouble it. In this collection are some
  excellent books, particularly rare and valuable editions of
  the classics, books of travels and general history, acts of
  learned societies, dictionaries, and church history.      Books
  are rarely found in Cape Town to constitute any part of the
  furniture of a house. So little value do they set on educa
  tion, that neither government nor the church, nor their
  combined efforts, by persuasion or extortion, could raise a
  sum sufficient to establish a proper public school in the co
  lony ; and few of the natives are in circumstances to enable
  them to send their children for education to Europe.         But
  those few who have had this advantage generally, on their
  return, relapse into the common habits of the colonists.        I
  repeat, that if the measure of general prosperity was to be
  estimated according to the ease of procuring abundance of
   food, the people of the Cape may be considered as the most
   prosperous on earth ; for there is not a beggar in the whole
   colony, and no example of any person suffering for want of
  the common necessaries of life.
       2. The wine-growers,    or as they are usually called at the
   Cape the wine-boors, are a class of people who, to the bles
   sings of plenty, add a sort of comfort which is unknown to
- the rest of the peasantry.       They have not only the best
   houses and the most valuable estates, but, in general, their
   domestic economy is managed in a more comfortable man
   ner than is usually found among the country farmers. Most
   of them are descendants of the French families who first
   introduced the vine. Their estates are mostly freehold, in
   extent about one hundred and twenty English acres, and
   the greater part is employed in vineyards and garden-
   grounds.    Their corn they usually purchase for money or in
   exchange for wine. Their sheep also, for family use, they
   must purchase, though many of them hold loan farms on
   the other side of the mountains.        The produce of" their
    farms, however, is sufficient for keeping as many milch
   cows as are necessary for the family, and they have abun
   dance of poultry.     The season for bringing their wine to
   market is from September to the new vintage in March, but
    generally in the four concluding months of the year ; after
    which their draught oxen are sent away either to their own
    farms or others in the country till they are again wanted.
    The deep sandy roads over the Cape isthmus rc<iuire fourteen
    or sixteen oxen to draw two leggtrs of wine, whose weight
   is not 2L tons.
                                                               The

  186 Condition   of the Inhabitants oftJie  Cape  of Good Hope.
    The tax upon their produce is confined to that part of it
 which is brought to the Cape market, and is at the rate of
 three rix dollars for every icgger of wine, and the same
 sum for every legger of, brandy that passes the barrier. AM
 that is consumed at home, or sold in the country, is free of
 duty.    Neither are they subject to any parochial taxes or as
 sessments, except a small capitation tax towards the repair of
 the streets and avenues leading to the town, and the lion
 and tyger money for the exigencies of the district.          They
are equally exempt, with the people of the town, from
church and poor rates ; the former being liberally provided
for by government, and the other description of people not
being known in the country districts.          The wine-farmers
take their pleasure to Cape Town, or make frequent excur
sions into the country, in their tent waggons drawn by a
team of six or eight horses; an equipage from which the
boor derives a vast consequence over 'his neighbour, who
may- only possess a waggon drawn by oxen.
    The following rough sketch, which was given to me by
one of the most respectable wine-boors, of his outgoings
and returns, will serve to show the condition of this class
of colonists:
                            Outgoings.
The first cost of his   estate was      -       R. D.   1 5,000
15 slaves a 300 Rd.     each            -          -     4,500
80 wine leggevs a 1 2                   -          -        960
Implements     for  pressing, distilling, &c.      -        500
S team of oxen                          -          -        500
2 waggons                               -          -        800
Horse-waggon       and team             -          -        900
Furniture, utensils, &c.                -          -      2,000
                                            Amount      25, 1 60
                            Interest 6 percent. R. D. 1509       5
3 Sheep per week for family use, 156 per year,
   a 2£                                 -         R. D.     390  o
Clothmg 15 slaves a 15 Rd. each per year           -        225  o
Corn for bread 36 muids a 3 Rd. -                  -        108  O
Tea, coffee, and sugar                  -          -        1 50 0
Clothing for the family and contingencies          -        350  0
Duty at the barrier on 1 20 leggers of wine and brandy 360       O
Wear and tear 100 Rd. parochial assessments 20              120  O
                  Amount of outgoings carried      over   3212   5
                                                        Amount

                               Geology.                         187
          Amount of outgoings brought          over  R.D.   3212   5
                               Returns.
100 loggers of wine brought to market a 30            3000
20 ditto of brandy ditto a 50                -        1000
The wine and brandy sold to the country
   boors, with the fruit and poultry brought
    to the Cape market, are more than suffi
    cient to balance every other contingent
    and extraordinary expense.
                             Amount of returns        4000 4000
              Balance in favour     of  the farmer   R. D.    787 3
                                                     or£.  157 8 3
which sum maybe considered as a net annual profit, after
every charge on the farm and on housekeeping has been de
frayed.
    The payment of an estate purchased is made easy to the
purchaser. The customary conditions are to pay by three
instalments, one-third ready money, one-third in one year,
and the remaining third at the end of the second year ; and
ihe latter two-thirds bear no interest.           And even the first
instalment he can borrow of government, through the loan
bank, by giving the estate as a mortgage and two sufficient
securities. So that verv large estates may be purchased at
the Cape with very little money, which is the chief reason
of    the  multiplicity of  vendues.
                           [To  be continued.]
        XXXIII.    Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                               GEOLOGY,
  J. he block of gypsum found        at Pantin two or three months
 ago, containing      a considerable    portion of the skeleton of a
 quadruped,     has  been  purchased by the prefect of La Seine,
 and given by him, in the name of the commune of Paris,
 to the Museum of Natural History,                The administrators
 have entrusted the examination of it to M. Cuvier, one of
 their members.
     This quadruped is not a ram, as supposed, and as men
                                                              tioned

 188                            Geology.
tioned in the last number of the Philosophical Magazine,
but one of those unknown species the bones of which are
found dispersed throughout the plaster quarries in France,
and which constitute an intermediate genus between the
rhinoceros and the tapir : only detached parts of this ani
mal have hitherto been found, such as fragments of the
head, feet, &c. ; and it was by comparing these scattered
portions that Cuvier was able to form a complete skeleton.
    The block of Pan tin has the advantage of containing
more parts than, ever were before seen together, and con
sequently of confirming the results obtained, by uniting the
fragments previously found.
    It contains a lower jaw, an upper and a lower molar
tooth, the vertebras of the neck, those of the back and
loins, the ribs, the omoplala, the humerus, the bones of
the fore-arm, a portion of the pelvis, one of the femur and
one of the bones of the leg; but the head and feet are
wanting.
    As the head and feet, however, had been before found in
other blocks, the parts lately obtained complete the know
ledge of the species ; and arc the more valuable as it will
be difficult to find tliem united in an order so near to that
of life.
   This quadruped is one of the eleven species already deter
mined by M. Cuvier, from bones found in the plaster pits
of France, and of which no living specimen has yet been
found on the surface of the globe by any traveller or natu
ralist. Its height is superior to that of the fox, and less than
that of the sheep.         The block of Pantin shows that it had
at least sixteen ribs.       All the species of the genus to which
it belongs, and which Cuvier distinguishes by the name of
paltBOtherium, had, like the one in question, molar teeth
very like that of the rhinoceros, with canine teeth and in
cisors like those of the tapir, and the form of the bones
of the head render it probable that, Jike ttte latter, they had
a trunk *.
   As the remains of these animals now lost are of great
importance to the history of the globe, the administrators
of the French Museum of Natural History wish very much
to obt.iin a complete collection of those found in the neigh
bourhood of Paris.          They have therefore requested all the
proprietors of plaster pits, or persons residing in the neigh
bourhood of them, to collect and transmit to them such
   * See a history of thct: animals in the Annalcs du Museum d'Histoire
Naturdle.
                                                               blocks

               Humboldt's Travels. — Curing    of Meat .         189
  Mocks as contain bones in a state of good preservation, with
  a promise of returning them, if desired, after they have been
  examined.       The names of the persons who choose to pre
  sent articles of this kind will be inscribed on them when
              exhibited, and rewards have been offered to those
  Eublicly
     ibourers who succeed in preserving bones entire.
       A work by Mr. Parkinson, of Hoxton, on the organic
  remains of the former world, is in considerable forward
  ness.     The first part, on the fossils of the vegetable king
  dom, illustrated with coloured plates, in quarto, will, we
  understand, be published on the 1 st of June next.
                       humboldt's travels.
       M. Humboldt, the Prussian minister at Rome, received,
  in the beginning of February, letters from his brother, dated
  ValladolidjinMechoacaii, September 24, 1803.            This cele
   brated traveller had descended     into the crater of the volcano
   of Torcello, which still burns,   to the depth of seventy toises,
   being only about fifteen toises from the bottom.        He states
   that the examination of this volcano, which has existed only
   since the 29th of September 1 759, will enable him to throw
   considerable light on the. nature of these terrible pheno
   mena. His letters do not give so positive hope of his speedy
   return as that of the llth of August.         He says he waits,
   before he embarks, for a good vessel, and the total cessation
   of that malady known by the name of the vomito negro,
   which at that time occasioned great ravage at La Vera-Cruz.
   These two circumstances, he adds, may retard his departure
   till the spring. He and his fellow-travellers were in perfect
   health.
                           CURING OF MEAT.
       The following curious receipt for curing fresh provisions
   to carry abroad,* has been tried by a gentleman who has
   twice made the experiment on a voyage to Archangel, and
   once to the West Indies :— Lei the meat, whether beef or
   mutton, be fresh killed, and when hung to be perfectly
    cold, let it be cut up in quarters : lay each on a block, and
    sprinkle it over with ingredients prepared in the following
    manner : Lignum vita fine chips one pound, common salt
    four ounces, coarse sugar four ounces, salt prunella half an
    ounce : when it has been well sprinkled in, close the whole
    in sheet lead ; which done, lay it in a chest, and, as each
    lot is laid in, cover it with fresh sawdust; ram it well down
.   and cover the whole close. Meat, particularly fine fat beef,
                                                                   has

 190                        Medicine.    — Chemistry.
has been eaten fresh, so prepared, six weeks or two months^
after sailing from England ; the beef must be in fine order,
and when taken out for dressing         roasts best)
                                                  (itshould                  it
be wiped and          scraped       clean, and put down to the fire as
quick   as   possible.
                                    MEDICINE.
   Dr. Keutsch,                           who practises in the
                           an able physician,
Danish West Indian islands St. Croix and St. Thomas, has
 established   a new method, which has hitherto proved suc
 cessful, in the treatment of the fevers peculiar to these
islands, and which are fatal to the Europeans. He employs
friction with oil. The first idea of this process was sug
gested to him         by
                     the theory of Scheele, of Copenhagen, in
regard   to  the use of oil in the plague     theory which has
                                                      ;    a
been published in Baldwin's Recollections respecting Egypt.
Of eight soldiers under the care of Dr. Keutsch, six were
cured of the fever in the course of twenty-four hours by
means of such friction.                 It
                                 produced strong perspiration,
and checked the vomiting.       The doctor in some cases ren
dered the effect of the friction more efficacious       adding               by
camphor to the oil.      This discovery     no doubt valuable
                                                      is                              :
the fever cured by this process        the same as that which
                                             is
occasioned so much ravage at St. Domingo.
                                   CHEMISTRY.
  It  appears      the following letter from C. F. Bucholz to
                   by
 the editors of the Neim Allgemeines Journal der Chimie,
 dated Erfurt, October 11,1 803, that there     no such simple is
 earth as that called agust earth —" The. agust earth dis
                                             :
 covered some years ago             by
                               professor Tromsdorff     and afr          *,
 terwards confirmed by the experiments of Richter to be                               a
 peculiar kind of earth, no longer exists.   About fortnight             a
 ago
   I    procured some of this earth for the purpose of sub
jecting it  to examination, and had proceeded so far that                            it
 was ready for being washed and dried when, in consequence
                                                  ;
of large quantity of lime which in presence of my friend
  a
 HaberleI   precipitated     pure carbonate of potash from the
                                   by
muriatic fluid from which this earth, several times treated
with ammonia, had been precipitated,         began to doubt of
                                                      I
the simplicity of the agust earth. My friend Tromsdorff,
to whom      Icommunicated my experiments, now informs
me that he has found that the agust earth          not simple       is               ;
he considers     as
                 it   combination of lime and an acid, pro
                        a
bably the phosphoric. As he had too smJI            quantity of     a
                                    Magazine, vol. vi. p. 287.
              *
                   Philosophical
                                                                                  agust

                   Improvement in Geography.              lgi
agust earth to confirm this suspicion by experiments, he
requested me to pay attention during my researches to the
acid.   I made experiments for the purpose, and was so for
tunate as to produce phosphorus and phosphoric acid, and
to find that the so called agust earth is actually phosphate
of lime. M. Haberlc and myself made some experiments
on the phosphorescence of pulverized crystals of agustite,
which when thrown on a hot plate of iron give a very lively
bright green light : a crystal of agustite rubbed on a piece
of woollen cloth exhibited a very strong attraction for small
bodies. All these circumstances assign to the fossil hitherto
called agustite a place near to apatite. The phosphate of
lime, therefore, has been three times given out as a simple
earth ; as ivory earth, bone earth, and agust earth.     It is
therefore probable that chemists in future will not be so
easily led into this kind of error.
              IMPROVEMENT      IN GEOGRAPHY.
   Mr. Churchman, author of the magnetical charts, has
proposed an improvement in the construction of maps, by
which the altitude, declivity, and perpendicular height of
the hills and mountains throughout any country or any par
ticular district can be indicated.     This plan consists in
tracing certain lines over the surfaces of the parts intended
to be so marked, and is applicable to maps already pub
lished ; thatis, to such as have been constructed by a  proper
survey, as the map of Kent, which has been performed at
the public expense, and published under the direction of the
Board of Ordnance, and other maps now executing in       a
                                                         si
milar manner. The lines are rendered efficient for the pur
pose proposed,       employing with them an universal pro
                    by
portion to ascertain their respective indications. Such maps
would probably be useful for military purposes as well as
for matters respecting canal navigation.
                                                    METSOR

i&«                              Meteorologyi
                    METEOROLOGICAL             TABLE*
                            For March       1804.
                       Thermom eter.
   Days of the
    Month.
                    j*
                    9
                        ti,
                        6
                               c
                               o
                               o
                                   ii
                                   ^2
                                   *j be
                                          Height of
                                         the Barom.
                                           Inches.
                                                            Weatlief.
                     CO "     "A
1804.   Feb, 25       30°    36°    30°   29-84       Fair
                26    28.    39     39    30-01       Fair
                27    40     47     38    29-92       Cloudy-
                28    36     36     29        •85     Rain and hail
                                                         showers
                29 29        36     29        •90     Fair
     March        I 28       34     28        •86     Fair
                  2   27     34     29        •84     Fair
              -   3   30     38     34        •60     Cloudy
                  4   34     34     36        •40     Snow
                  5   37     46     38        •35     Cloudy
                  C   39     47     39        •32     Showery
                  7   38     49     38        •66     Fair
                  8   37     51     45        •73     Fair
                  9   45     52     46        •51     Rain          v
                10    43     53     46        •69     Foggy
                11    47     55     45        •72     FaiT
                12    42     57     46        •72     Fair
                13    46     58     49        •82     Fair
                 14   46     59     48        •86     Fair
                 15   48     59     49        •79     Fair
                16    44     55     48        •75     Foggy
                 17   43     56     44        •72     Fair
                18    42     39     35        •59     Rain
                19    34     35     32        •51     Snow
                20    32     33     32        •62     Cloudy
                21    32     35     31        •86     Fair
                22    31     38     30        •70     Fair
                '23   30     41     38        •60     Cloudy
                24    32     47     37        •79     Fair
                25    42     47     43        •50     Cloudy
                20    43     48     38        •25     Showery
                       •By Mr.    Carey, of the Strand.
                            J
                                 ERRATUM.
Page 12 j 1. 35,  for " Table of Parallaxes" read   " Table of Refraction}."

                              [   193     ]
XXXTV. Experiments           to ascertain whether tliere exists any
   Affinity  betwixt   Carbon     and Clay, Lime and Silex, se
   parately  or as  Compounds united with the Oxide of Iron
  forming Iron Ores and Iron Stones. By David Mushet,
   Esq. of the Calder Iron-Works*.
 X he subject of     the present inquiry, which has long en
gaged my     attention,   is of considerable importance in the
ceconomy     of  the  manufacture      of iron, and is a necessary
key to the development of many facts connected with that
truly philosophical process. To the chemist and the philo
sopher it will most probably be more acceptable than to the
manufacturer.       A long continued train of Success and ex
perience frequently exalts the latter in his own opinion be
yond the confines of elementary science.            Conscious of his
attainments by practice both in the quality and quantity of
his results, he seldom acknowledges the existence of che
mical and philosophical principles; or, if he does, it is
merely to shade them with that ridicule which is often the
bane of useful inquiry.
   If we were certain    that wc had reached the ultimate pro
gress of discovery in   the   properties and affinities of the most
useful metal hitherto discovered, then the injury done to
science and the arts, by avoiding all inquiries to explain
upon simple principles the agency employed in the manu
facturing of iron, would be of less importance.           But if the
matter is impartially investigated, there will be found suffi
cient reason to apprehend that our knowledge and general
progress in the iron trade arc more applicable to quantity
than quality.     The successful exertions of individuals have
increased the manufacture of cast and malleable iron beyond
all precedent in this country ; nor have we been without
sonic enlightened individuals who have laudably endea
voured to form a superior quality along with the extension
of their manufactures. Success has so far crowned their
praise-worthy exertions, aided bv the operation of knowledge
in removing the prejudices of the artisan, that bar iron of
our own manufacturing has been substituted to a great ex
tent, in place of that formerly used of the Swedish and
 Russian marks.      But hitherto all attempts have failed to
 make bars of a proper quality to form steel in any degree
                   * Communicated     bv the Author.
   Vol. XVIII. No.       71.          N                  comparable
        April   1804.

194                      On the Affinities     of
comparable to that we daily manufacture in great quantities
from foreign iron.
    Here we remain at an immense distance behind ; and
while our manufacture of iron goods exceeds the collective
exertions of all Europe, we humbly feel our dependence
upon two foreign markets for the supply of that steel iron,
without which the beauty, the utility, and extent of our
hardware manufactures would be essentially injured and
abridged.
    The policy of the foreign holders of this article commu
nicates many undue advantages to the favourite few to whom
the steel iron is consigned in this country.            The rapid pro
gressive rise in value of this iron for ten years pa9t, has al
ready nearly doubled the price of steel to the workman, and
given the trade in general a melancholy foretaste of the evils
 of dependence and monopoly*. This is not all ; the im
porters of steel iron avail themselves of their advantageous
connection, and generally annex, as. a condition of pur
chasing, that the steel manufacturer shall buy a proportion
of inferior or common marks. This he is frequently obliged
to do, and take his chance of the market in disposing
either of all or of part of this obligatory purchase. The con
sequences are obvious; only large capitalists can in general
 enter the trade, and these most naturally will cover their
 probable risk of loss upon the sale of a superfluous stock
 of bar iron by an additional tonnage upon the price of blis
 tered and manufactured steel.
    There are few but are convinced that there exists some
 material difference betwixt us, the Swedes, and Russians, in
 the form or minutiae of our processes for making bar iron
 respectively, in the nature of our fuel, or in the construc
 tion of our ores.      If the most faithful imitation of the fo
 reign processes for the making of bar iron has completely
 failed in forming quality, then the difference must lay be
 twixt the nature of pit coal fuel and that of wood ; or the
 fossil construction and combination of an endless variety
 of secondary ores, contrasted with the richer, the magnetic,
 and more metallic ores of the Swedish and Siberian mines.
     If the analysis of pit coal furnish us with data sufficient
    * It was reported some years -Agp, that the mine of Danamora in Sw e»
 den, from the ore of which 4 to 5000 tons of >xxt\ iron or the best marks
 are yearly made, had been inundated by the overflowing or bursting of a
 neighbouting   lake.  The holders of iron in this country immediately
 ipeculated upon an unheard-of rise in the price of this article, which
 was fortunately soon after counteracted by a certainty of the mischief not
 being nearly so extensive as was first apprehended.
                               1                                         to

                      different Earths     for Carl/on.                  195
   to assert, that after proper distillation, or coaking, the resi
   duum coke is equally purely compounded, at least in many
   instances, as the charcoal obtained from the combustion
   of wood, then the chief weight will hinge upon the different
   qualities of the ores introduced into the smelting furnace
   here and abroad     *.
      If  this supposition is well founded, the constituent parts
   of our ores, and the effects of their mixtures respectively,
   surely become an object of the highest consideration.
      There are now nearly 150 blast-furnaces at work in Bri
   tain, the produce of many of which, as to quantity, may
  be alike, but each of which will most likely possess some
  distinguishing characteristic mark as to quality.               It is also
  very generally understood, that the native impression or pe
  culiarity of quality adheres to the metal in every subsequent
  stage of operation.        Weak or fusible pig iron requires not
  only a greater quantity to waste to form a ton of bars, but
  is afterwards found possessing an inferior degree of mallea
  bility and tenacity. On the contrary, strong or refractory
  pig iron forms malleable iron with greater facility, of course
 with a less loss of metallic matter, and constitutes what is
  well understood by the term a strong body of iron.
      The means employed to render each of them malleable
 being alike in both cases, though an investigation of this
 subject might not be immediately productive of any advan
 tage to the mere manufacturer of pig iron ; yet, as it might
 tend to unfold the causes of several admitted effects in the
 operations of the blast-furnace, and tend to develop some
 affinities not hitherto suspected of being brought into play,
 it would ultimately throw light upon the fabrication of bar
 iron and steel : a desideratum of much importance to the
 community.
     Arrangement and classification seem in all systems and
 theories the grand primary steps towards knowledge and
 perfection.      Impressed with this truth, I ventured several
     * I mean that this assertion fhould be confined to some pit coals only,
 and to the quantities of carbon and aUics which enter into their composi
 tion.   In many instances 1 have found the coke of pit coal more free
 from ashts, and containing of course a larger proportion of carbon than
 the general run of woods.      What difference may result in the manu
 facturing of iron with such coals, arising from the residuum or ash being
 chiefly an earthy mixture, and wood, the residuum of which is chiefly
alkaline, I never have determined hy direct experiment.         This import
 ant and extensive field of investigation still lies open and unexplored to
 the manufacturer and the chemist, or both.          I have alluded 10 it in
one of the subsequent paragraphs of this paj'cr, as forming a part of an
irnpurtanc and national branih of inquiry.
                                     N =2                             years
                                                         i

    1 9(5                   On the Affinities  of
   years ago, through the medium of this publication, to ar
   range our iron-stones, generally denominated
                                                          " secondary
   argillaceous ores of' iron," into four classes, viz. calcareous,
   argillaceous, siliceous, and class of equal mixtures.        I have
   since added to these, three new classes, not hitherto, I be
   lieve, acknowledged as iron-stones, viz. carbonaceous, bi
  tuminous, and granulated : the two former classes, if ever
  examined or suspected as belonging to the varieties of se
   condary ores, were cither considered as coal or rejected as
  ¦whin stone.       Analysis, however, bv the separation of a
  large portion     of metal from each, taught me to value them
  accordingly,     and  to rank them as real secondary ores of iron
  possessed    of  new   and interesting features.
       Of the first four classes, the varieties chiefly used at iron
  works are those of the class I have styled       " equal mixtures."
  But as the combination of lime, clay, silex, iron, and oxy
  gen, is susceptible of an almost endless variety of modifica
  tion before any one earth exclusively predominate, even the
  same class of ores may in their results afford a similar va
  riety in the peculiar or native properties of the metal which
  it contains.      Under this class we find numerous modifica
  tions of calcareous earth crystallized, in the state of spar,
  on marine remains, disseminated, or in chalkv lines parallel
  or intersecting each other throughout the fracture of the.
  ore.
       The next supply in point of quantity is derived from the
  argillaceous ore ; but there are but few varieties of this class
 that approach to any great degree of purity.
       Calcareous iron-stone in its purest state is extremely          ¦
 scarce, and is as yet no where found in quantity excepting
 upon the Whitby and Scarborough coast.               Its appearance
 being very different in point of colour from common iron->
 stones renders it an object of suspicion to the iron-master
 in general ; and there are but few varieties hitherto that
 have, been permitted to enter iue precincts of the furnace-
 yard. The union of lime, however, in the common quali
 ties of iron-stone forms a striking and interesting character,
which is frequently beneficially felt by admitting a reduc
tion of that quantity of lime-stone in the furnace which
ore highly argillaceous would require.
      The siliceous class of iron-stones seldom or ever form
any part of the supply of the manufacturer, and I believe
their existence in a state comparatively pure is equally un
known to him and the mineralogist.             In general it may be
remarked, that at all iron-works iron-stones containing a
larger proportion of sand than common are carefully re
                                                              jected,

                    different Earllis   for    Carbon.                     i 97
jetted, for containing
                              " bad iron." This prejudice, without
 stopping     to   inquire   into   the correctness of the deduction,
has tended to lock up from general examination numerous
 strata of iron-stones which unfortunately were impressed
with the usual external characteristics of the siliceous genus
of stones. Many of these equally rich in iron, with some
of those used in the blast-furnace, arc buried in the rubbish
 of quarries, or contumeliously branded as a mischievous va
 riety of sand-stone.
      The general theory founded on practice, and which is
 commonly admitted at iron -works,              is, that that iron-stone
     best which fluxes itself, or that, in other words, contains
a is
     considerable proportion of lime              the state of crystal,
 spar, or otherwise.          The assertion   is, in
                                                   and   believe    to be
                                                                     it
                                                   to make " sulphury
                                                       I
just, that such iron-stones tend            more
 iron," i.    p. iron richly carbonated,      than any other variety         :
 hence these are always in great request.              Again, those va
 rieties of iron-stones that present smooth fractures of a
 dull blackish or grayish black, or gray or grayish white co
 lour, and uniform throughout, are held next in estimation
 at iron-works.          These, with the same justness of remark,
 make " good iron;" but their tendency to form " sulphury
 iron"  is   inferior.     The fracture of pig iron made from such
 iron-stones   is     generally less brilliant than from the former,
  seldom presents    a     carbureted surface, but       by many      is
                                                                      pre
  ferred for excellent melting iron.          These varieties generally
  arrange themselves under the argillaceous class of ores.              In
  these the manufacturer adds another, which                     merely
                                                                is            a
  modification of the same class, but united to an evidently
  larire proportion of sand.         The theory which      ishere applied
  is, that such iron-stones make      a     coarser quality of iron than
  the former, and that, when the quantity on the furnace                     is
  increased beyond     a      certain proportion, the quality of the
  metal becomes hard or less carbonated.
       These facts, which seem to result from general practice,
  may be thus shortly arranged, every circumstance being
  alike to all
             :
       1st, Calcareous iron-stone has     a     direct tendency to ma
  nifesta    larger proportion       of carburet    than any other elas3
  in the blast-furnace, and of course enhances at the same
  time the absolute value of the metal.
       2d, Argillaceous iron-stones form iron of an equal qua
   lity in the estimation of some, but         in  manufacturing exhi
   bit always a      less apparent existence of carbon and an in
   ferior tendency to carburate.
       3d, Siliceous iron-stones have uniformly            a  tendency to
                                      N
                                      3                   -        destroy

  198                     Chi the Affinities of
 destroy or secrete the existing carbon in the. furnace ; reduce
  its absolute quantity in the pig, and lower its value to the
 manufacturer.        From this arrangement it will be easy to
 explain   the  full meaning of the manufacturer when he de
 signates,   the  product of any ore " bad iron."        The phrase
 is merely relative, and only implies a want of saturation of
  the coaly principle, and does not extend to the after results
 of the metal, supposing it underwent the manipulations of
 the forge.      The contrary is the fact ; for the " bad iron" of
 the pig iron maker is the most suitable to the purposes of
  the forge, whether its intrinsic value in the market is con
 sidered, or its facility in forming bar iron with much less
 loss than when carbonated metal is operated upon.
     With this fact before us, are we justifiable in condemning
 to perpetual oblivion, without trial and without examina
 tion, every ore of iron that is not as profitable as another in
 the blast-furnace for the manufacturing of gray or melt
 ing pig iron? May not the converse of the above proposi
 tions hold good ? and may it not ultimately be discovered,
 that argillaceous and siliceous iron-stones, which yield in
 ferior qualities of melting pig iron, form a quality best cal
  culated lor the purposes of the bar iron forge?
     The universal run in favour of easily carbonated iron, and
 the general result of the quality of bar iron at most of the
 forges in the kingdom, give a shade of probability to this
 supposition.
     To prosecute an inquiry into the fact itself would open
 an extensive field of rich investigation.        The subject di
 vides itself into three principal tranches.           The first, to
 which this paper is meant as introductory, is an inquiry
 into the affinities exerted by the different earths, which
 commonly enter into the composition of iron-stones, upon
 the carbon of the furnace, and to ascertain how far and to
what extent these retard or promote the carbonation of the
metal.
    The second and most laborious branch would be, by di
rect experiment to form portions of cast iron, malleable
iron, and steel, from one particular oxide of iron, (or from
any iron ore whose properties were nicely ascertained, to serve
as a general standard,) mixed and fused with different earths,
and In various proportions.        Thus a rigorous scale of com
parison   would    be  easily  formed   from the results thus ob
tained, as to every possible shade of quality which most pro
bably results from certain affinities existing betwixt the me
tal and earths.      Chemical analyses would finally close this
division of useful labour, by enabling us to compare with
                                                           foreign

                    different Earths jor  Cation:             199
  foreign irons the residua afforded by our various qualities in
  the different stages of manufacture.
      The third and not the least interesting province of na
  tional inquiry, and which would form an essential epoch in
  the history of iron making, would be a practical analysis of
  the numerous qualities of pit coal ; not merely to ascertain
  the quantities of bitumen, carbon, and ashes which they
  contain, but by forming real metallic products by means of
 each quality, and subjecting the^.e to positive and compa
  rative trials, enable us to pronounce which are best calcu
 lated to promote the general interest of the manufacture.
     In the pursuit of knowledge in this laborious, sable, but
  very interesting field, science might ere long, and without
 any visionary effects of a fanciful imagination, establish her
 empire over" the regions of the foundry, and by her enlight
 ened steps exhibit to us, even in the most remote and inglo
 rious manipulation of this art, the unerring operation of
 principle and the general harmony of established causes.
 Then, perhaps, our labours might be productive of a classi
 fication descriptive of the natural product of our ores and
 fuel.    The Germans have long had their steel ore and the
 Swedes their steel iron ; and mav not analysis point out, ac
 cording to the various combinations of our oVes, however
 inferior in many respects, what particular mixture would
 form the best bar iron, and which the best steel ? Already
 the manufacture of melting cast iron, so far as it relates to
 a judicious choice of ores, seems thoroughly understood.
    The first of these divisions now pointed, out being the
 task I have assigned to myself, I shall proceed to state the
 train of reasoning which was the foundation of the extensive
scries   of experiments   meant to be detailed.
     Every day, convinced of the correctness of the practical
deductions formerly stated, relative to ores combined with
different earths, I was anxious to form an explanation of
the causes which would in every particular prove satisfac
tory of the facts. At one time I attributed the effects of
the calcareous iron-stone to the decomposition of carbonic
acid in burning the iron-stone, and part of the carbon either
uniting to the particles of metal, or, which in effect would
nearly De the same thing, carrying off" a portion of its oxy
gen.     I again supposed that this effect might be produced
by a stronger affinity existing betwixt the iron-stone and
the raw limestone added as a flux, the carbonic acid of
which might be decomposed, and the carbon attracted by
the iron.     Having satisfied myself, by direct experiment, •
that carbonic acid (even admitting' it as ikeomposed) never
                               N4                       affords

200          On tlie Affinities  of Earths for  Carbon.
affords   any carbon to iron in fusion, I was forced to seek a
new theory.
    I had often remarked that, in forming crucibles, a mix
ture of plumbago, charcoal, or coke-dust, while it conferred
a degree of toughness to the clay in the act of heating, and
presented what is by workmen called clinking, uniformly
created a degree of fusibility beyond the natural tendency of
the clay when unmixed.          It occurred to me that this fusi
bility might proceed      from   a chemical affinity being excited
by    the clay upon   the   carbonaceous  matter of the addition
in very high temperatures, and that something similar taking
place betwixt the earths and the carbon in the blast-furnace,
might tend to explain, in a satisfactory manner, the pheno
mena of the different iron-stones.
     I immediately considered lime, clay, and silex, in some
respects in the same state as the metallic oxides, and parti
 cularly similar to the one with which they were united in
 their earthy state ; each of them separating from the com
 mon mass, according to their affinities, portions of the car
 bonaceous matter of the fuel, and cither with it becoming
 a binary compound, or by discharging it in the state of an
 elastic vapour.
     From this theory it seemed consonant with the practical
 remarks formerly made to deduce, that the fact of calca
 reous matter in the blast-furnace, and particularly in union
 with iron-stones, forming iron more carbonated than argil
 laceous or siliceous ores, might arise from a less degree of
 affinity subsisting betwixt calcareous earth and carbon, than
 between the others and that substance : or that, in other
 words, lime not absorbing at all, or in very small quantities,
 the carbon of the fuel, a larger portion was left to be united
 with the iron ; and hence followed an easy explanation of
 its tendency to form carburated or " sulphury' iron."
     As the products of carbonation diminish by the increase
 of clay, I immediately inferred that clay absorbed a larger
  portion of carbon than lime, and this robbed the iron .of a
  portion of its coaly principle.      The same reasoning I ap
  plied to siliceous iron-stones, but in an extent proportioned
  to the excessive deearbonation of the metal when these
  iron-stones are used in quantity.
      As aii theory, however, seemed objectionable that was
  not founded upon direct experiment, particularly when the
  elementary principles could be subjected with ease to their
  supposed respective affinities, I determined to engage in an
  undertaking, which, though it at first sight appeared labo
  rious, promised a rich and an abundant harvest.
                                                                The

        Manner in which Natural Bodies exhibit Colours.             201
    The experiments        arrange themselves     under the following
heads     :
    1st, On the affinities which exist betwixt lime, clay, and
silex, and carbon, in temperatures             from 150° to 170° of
Wedge wood.
    2d, On the affinities which exist betwixt carbon and ores
variously compounded, judging comparatively from their
metallic results in fusion.
    3d, On the affinities which exist betwixt carbon and pri
mary and secondary ores of iron, arranged according to their
former classification, judging also comparatively from their
metallic results.
                              [To be continued.]
XXXV.         Researches in regard to the Manner in which Na
     tural Bodies exhibit Colours, and Experiments on a new
     Theory of that Phamomenon. By S. F. Hermbstadt*.
First Part — which           contains an Examination of the Ques
            tion, Whether Light       be a simple Substance?
  _L he colour of any object considered as a phenomenon is
the result of the sensation impressed on the organ of sight
bv the effect of the object, and can no further he explained.
 If   the result of this effect is to be defined from physical
causes, it is then necessary to follow its producing causes
 to discover them if possible, and to deduce from them a
 rational explanation consistent with natural principles.
      If we s'.-t out from any other principle, the effective causes
 are considered as accessory things ; and no other result can
 be obtained from our researches than hypothesis susceptible
 of any modification, and for that reason insufficient.
      It was from this principle that the antient philosopher*
  proceeded when they wished to give a proper idea of the
  production of colours ; and therefore it was natural that the
 hypothesis they formed should be subject to any modifica
 tion, and readily give place to other hypotheses.
      Newton himself, who without doubt is the greatest among
  the modern philosophers, did not render his hypothesis in
  regard to light ana colours perfectly free from this objec
  tion. The experiments which he first made in the year
   1666 on the refraction of light, gave hiin reason to observe
     •
         From Ncuc; AHgemeinn Journal     da Cbemie, by Hermbstadt, KIjp-
  rotli, &c. vol. ii. no. 1. Berlin 105.
                                                                       its

    502          Researches in regard to the Marnier
   its close connection with the colours of bodies, and to form
   from it a system which, as a monument of human inge
   nuity, is worthy of admiration.
      Sonne of the supports of this system of colours, which at
   present is made the ground of the explanation given of the
   phenomena of colours, have been shaken by Euler's hypo
   thesis ; but it can by no means be entirely overturned.
      Newton's experiments on the refraction of the rays of
   light, have undoubtcdly.proved that light must be considered
  is the first and only cause of all colours, and be made the
  principle on which they are explained.
      But when we found on it the hypothesis, that white light
  is a mixture of the seven simple coloured rays, which can
  no longer be decomposed, and when this hypothesis is made
  the foundation of another, to show how the natural bodies
  exhibit their colours according as they reflect this or that
  ray of light and absorb the rest, — this to me appears to be
  merely an auxiliary hypothesis, capable of explaining the
  consequence in part, but by no means entirely.
      Had Newton, the celebrated author of this system, been
  as good a chemist as he was a geometrician and philosopher;
  and had the knowledge of chemistry been as widely extended
 in his time as it is at present ; that great man, as modest as
 lie was free from prejudice, would in the prosecution of his
 discoveries have proceeded to the first causes ; and these re
 searches would have exhibited to so philosophical and accu
 rate an experimenter the object of' his inquiries in a diffe
 rent point of view.
     This, however, was not the case. Newton, and most of
 his followers who employed themselves with researches on
 this subject, examined rather the refrangibility and reflexi-
bility of light than its intimate nature ; and therefore it was
unavoidable that phsenomena should either escape or be con
cealed from them, which are every moment produced, by
the action of light, and which in its effects act a distin
guished part as the means of producing colours.
     Some new experiments which I made on light, and a re
petition of those of others, have exhibited to me phseno
mena which seem to merit attention, as they may serve to
enable us to form some opinion in regard to the object in
question.
     That I may pursue these experiments in systematic order,
I shall here mention the ideas which gave birth to them :
they were as follows :
     1st, Is the white colourless light a simple and not a com
pound substance ?                                              ,
                                                          2d, Is

             in which Natural Bodies exhibit Colours.        203
    2d, Is it the product of a mixture of two heterogeneous
substances     ? and in this case, what are the compounding
parts   ?
    3d, Does light consist or not in a mixture of seven dif
ferently coloured rays ? and, if the latter be the case, how
and under what circumstances does light act as a medium
for the production of colours ?
    4th, What influence have the matters which in contact
with light produce colours on the change of its mixture ?
    In regard to answering the first question, it will be ne
cessary to determine in general, if possible, whether any
thing can exist actually perceptible to the senses in the
simple state.
    As far as our experience in the knowledge of nature per
mits us to judge, we must admit among material objects in
general, and among the more subtle matters in particular,
an incessant and mutual action, which is so powerful, that,
in the moment when we endeavour to disengage simple sub
stances from their mixtures, they again enter into new com
binations, and exercise on each other a productive power
which never ceases.
    It hence follows, that the impression by which these
matters affect our senses must be considered either as the
result of new mixtures ; or it must be admitted that these
 matters, by their mixing and productive power, are capable
 of exciting ideas of their specific and individual existence. ¦
     If this mode of considering the subject be applied to light,
 it follows, that it must be considered as the result of the
 mixture of two different component parts.           But here a
 question naturally arises, What are the principles which
 produce light, considered as the product of their mixture ?
     As the answer to this question cannot be founded on any
 question « priori, it must be explained by experiment; for
 it is the result of a research respecting light that can pave
 the wav to a solution of it. With this view the following
 experiments were made :
                           Experiment 4.
     On   a bright summer day, when the horizon was obscured
 by   no  cloud, a bundle of rays was introduced into a darkened
 room in such a manner as to cover the bulbs of two ther
 mometers suspended in a perpendicular direction : one of
 these thermometers, which I shall call A, was at the di
 stance of 1 2 inches, and the other, B, at the distance of 24,
 reckoning from the point where the light flowed in.
     Observation.  — In the course  of ten minutes the mercury
                                                               in

  204             Researches in regard to the Manner
  in the thermometer A stood at 1 5° of Reaumur, and that
 in B at 14°. The former, therefore, was the temperature of
  the light itself.
                            Experiment   II.
      I let the above apparatus remain without any change, but
 suspended near the thermometer B another, C, the bulb of
 which was covered with a mixture of chalk and clear gum
 water, and completely dried.
       Observation. — At the end of ten minutes the temperature
 of the thermometers A and B was the same : in C the mer
 cury stood only at 12 degrees.
                           Experiment III.
      T again left the apparatus in the same state, but in place
 of the thermometer C substituted a new one, D, the bulb
 of which was covered with a mixture of gum water and ver
 milion completely dried.
      Observation. — At the end of ten minutes the mercury in
 A and B was in the same state as before ; but in the ther
 mometer D, the bulb of which had been covered with ver
 milion, it stood at 1 1 degrees.
                           Experiment   IV.
     In the like manner I suspended near the thermometer B
 another, E, the bulb of which was painted black, with a
 mixture of lamp-black and gum water.
      Obicrvation. — At the end of ten minutes the temperature
 of the thermometers A and B was as before ; but the one E,
 painted with lamp-black, exhibited the temperature of 20°.
     The results of these experiments were striking, but I was
uncertain on what principle I could explain them. Two
explanations only were possible.         1st, Either the colours
which I employed act as conductors of heat : or, 2d, They
have different degrees of power to extricate heat from light.
To ascertain these points I made the following experiments:
                           Experiment   V.
     I  took three cylindric glasses of equal thickness, and
filled one with dry pounded chalk, another with dry pounded
cinnabar, and the third with burnt lamp-black.          In each
of these glasses I placed the bulb of a thermometer, in such
a manner that it was every where- covered by the pulve
rized substance.       The three glasses were then deposited in
a small wooden box, and hot sand being poured over them,
thev were left at rest for ten minutes.
     Observation. — The temperature of the sand was now 50
                                                         degrees

               tn which NatUrat Bodies exhibit Colours.                   205
  degrees of Reaumur, the thermometer in the chalk indi
  cated the temperature of 35 degrees, that in the cinnabar 40,
  and that in the lamp-black 35.
      It hence follows, therefore, that the conducting power of
  these substances for heat is as little proportioned as their
  capacities for it to that heat which the light excites in them :
  otherwise the lamp-black must have acquired the greatest
 temperature ; whereas it exhibited the lowest, and conse
 quently showed the least power for conducting heat *. -
     These results, therefore, are a sufficient proof that the
 light, when it acts on substances of different colours, is
 capable    of producing different degrees of heat, if in their
 former state they were free from heat.
     But it is worthy of remark, that the thermometer painted
 with chalk exhibited a lower temperature than that of the
 light which fell upon it; and this shows that white light
              rather the property of extracting heat from colour-
   ess bodies than producing in them heat : which agrees with
 [lossesses
 some other experiments.
     If the results of these experiments, therefore, be employed
 to determine whether light be a simple substance, or a pro
 duct of the mixture of two different component parts, we
 are naturally led to adopt the latter idea, namely, that light
 is not a simple but a compound substance.
     We are thus conducted to the answering of the second
 question, What are the component parts of Tight ? We are
 taught by the above experiments, that chalk, when it comes
 into contact writh a colourless ray of light, not only produces
 no heat, but even lessens the absolute heat of the light ;
 and on the other hand, that lamp-black in contact with
 light is capable of producing the greatest degree of heat.
     The latter is the case also when other black objects are
subjected to the action of the light, and is confirmed in a
 striking manner by the well-known experiment, that snow
Under a piece of black cloth melts much sooner than under
white.
     It hence follows also, and this is agreeable to Newton's
    • The author's inference is in some respects incorrect.       The experi
ment was instituted to determine whether the colours he employed acted
a-, conduriors of heat, or hid different degrees of power to extricate hest
from light.     The result only proves a certain tiuth respecting the con
ducting power of the snbstar.rts employed.      The power of all bodies to
transmit heat is, in some degree at least, as their densities.      Their co
lours also may affect the result; but fnmi (1's.imil ir substances we appre
hend no accu.ate inference can be drawn icspccting the point in question.
—Edit.
                                                                 principles,

*06      Marnier in which Natural Bodies exhibit Colours.
principles, that black objects must be considered as those
which absorb the light, and capable of depriving it of its
luminous property :. on the other hand, those must be con
sidered as white or colourless objects which reflect the light
that falls upon them, and for this reason appear white.
    But here arises another question — If dark objects destroy
the action of the light which falls upon them, while white
objects do not, what is the efficient cause of this difference ?
This question may be easily answered on the principles of
Newton by this observation, that black objects absorb the
light, and white reflect it.
    This explanation, however, is merely an auxiliary hypo
thesis to attempt to explain something, but it by no means
explains the result.     Should it be explained on satisfactory
grounds, a second question will arise, namely, Why is light
absorbed by black objects, and not by white ? Is this effect
accompanied by particular phxnomena, or not ? And if this
be the case, What are the phenomena which are exhibited
for our observation ?
    If the above experiments be made the ground for an ex
planation of this point, it thence follows, that in the mo
ment when light is deranged in its luminous action by a
black object, an exaltation of its temperature takes place.
    But the exaltation of the temperature of a body supposes
the existence of free heat.       If bodies, however, in a state
of rest, exposed to the action, of light, can on no good
grounds be considered as capable of themselves to extricate
neat ; and if heat is produced by their contact with the rays
of light which are not hot of themselves, light must be con
sidered as that object which contains the principles sufficient
 for the disengagement of heat.
    But if the heat combined with light cannot exercise an
action till the light is brought into contact with another
object, it must be combined with it in a different form.
This union or mixture of two heterogeneous bodies in a
new product supposes an affinity between them ; and this
is a sufficient proof that light must be considered as the
 product of the mixture of caloric and another substance,
which unite by the power of affinity.
    We hence sec by what means light, in consequence of
its action on some bodies, can produce heat, and why this
is not the case with others.      If an object, therefore, is ca
pable    of exciting heat by  its contact with light, its attrac
tive power for the matter that produces light must be greater
than the attractive power of this matter for caloric. Hence
 it follows, that the productive matter of light is miscible with
                                                            other

        Fourteenth Communication from Dr. Thornton.               207
other matters, and consequently subject to the general law*
of chemical or mixing affinity, which places its materiality
beyond all doubt. It follows likewise that colourless bodies
for this reason when they come into contact with light can
produce no heat, because their attraction for the producing
matter of light is less than the attraction of this matter for
caloric.
    Since we are thus naturally induced to consider light a*
a product or mixture of the producing matter of light and
caloric, it will be necessary also to introduce this matter
under a characteristic name into the nomenclature of na
tural elements.      But the producing matter of light is not
of itself luminous ; it assumes this quality in the product
of its mixture with caloric, and consequently it must be
distinguished by the name of photoaen from the Greek
words tpwro; and ysivofxai, which signify to produce light.
    Light, and the matter that produces light, must also be
as different from each other as cause and effect.          The pro
ducing     matter   of light may     be   a component part of many
objects    in the world,    and  be distinguished  by different qua
lities.    It may also exist in the concrete form, mixed with
other bodies ; but it can never exist pure without mixture
with other elements, because, as already observed, all ele
ments in nature are in a continual state of mutual reaction,
and exercise on each other an incessant power of attraction.
    If the producing matter of light and caloric enter into
 mixture, the result is fight ; consequently caloric is that ele
ment which converts the producing matter of light into
moveable or radiant light.
                            [To  be continued.]
 XXXVI.        Fourteenth Communication from Dr.         Thornton
                  relative to Pneumatic Medicine.
                                                     March 10, 1804.
                         To   Mr. Tilloch.         No. 1, Hinde-street,
        jjjj                                        Manchester-square.
 A feel happy when I           can T&late to the philosophic world
 cures long ago accomplished, which show also the perma
 nency of the benefits received ; and the present early case
 is, I think, a very striking example of the efficacy of the
aerial remedy.
                            Case  of  Spasms.
    Mrs. Gillespie,    oet.  35, a  marriedMady, for near a twelve
                                                                month

   SOS     Fourteenth Communication from    Dr. Thornton.
  month was affected with a stomach complaint, as indiges
  tion, flatulence, heartburn, a loathing of animal food, dis
  turbed sleep, great emaciation, a dry cough, and frequent
  excruciating spasms, with frequent hysteric affections in the
  throat : her debility was great, and her breathing extremely
  short upon using the least exertion. Having taken a great
  deal of medicine to no manner of permanent good, she re
  solved to try the vital air; and this was as far back as the
  year 1793, and with the approbation of her apothecary
  Mr. Bateson, of Gun Dock, a very old practitioner, whose
  name accordingly deserves to be remembered here.          The
  same plan of medicine was pursued as before : a gallon of
  vital air, mixed with three gallons of atmospheric, inhaled,
  and in six weeks this lady was restored to the blessing of
 health. Being called, a few days ago, into consultation by
 Dr. Hamilton, respecting this lady's niece, No. 3, Brixtony
 I was pleased to find Mrs. Gillespie looking extremely well,
 and she felt more anxious than I might be to have her case
  generally known to the world.
            Observations on this Case by Dr. Tlwrnton.
     I. The connection of the oxygenated blood on the sto
 mach is found from the greater degree of appetite experi
 enced by those in the country than when in a confined
 place, and from the effect of inhaling the superoxygenated
 air as increasing the appetite in this and other patients.
     II. That the spasms should cease is not to be wondered
 at, as undigested food in the stomach not only makes un-
 concocted or ill-formed blood, but acts as a local stimulus,
 ferments, and occasions the extrication of fixed and inflam
 mable airs, and, distending lively parts excessively, throws
 them into inordinate action ; — but once get the stomach
 right, the main spring of the animated machine, and all
 then goes on well.
     III. This lady at first was so weak, that with difficulty
 she could get out of the coach up stairs, and the artificial
mode of drawing into the lungs the superoxygenated aif was
accomplished with extreme difficulty.
    IV. Warmth, spirits, appetite, gradually increased ; de
bility, so productive of spasm in the language of the old
school, soon disappeared : and this case, with others, tends
to prove, " that the combined powers of medicine and air mat/
produce a good, when either, perhaps, would fail singly."
    Mr. Roberts, oilman, No.     5, Blandford-street, whom 1
saw to-day,     makes the following report relative to the vilal
                                                            air.

            History of Astronomy for       the Year 1803.         209
 air.    His dyspepsia had existed two years : —
                                                         "  From the
 first day inhaling the vital air, found every thing stay on
 my stomach: before      I vomited every thing up; before, ani
mal food took such an effect upon me, that I was obliged
to leave the room where any joint was : now I eat every
thing with an appetite, and, after returning from inhaling
the vital air, am disposed to devour even the victuals in the
street." —This patient has left off the vital air, as consider
ing himself cured.
                  I have the honour to remain, yours, &c.
                                     Robert John Thornton
XXXVII.       History of Astronomy for the Year \S03. Read
     at the College de France by Jerome de Lalande*.
 JL his year will not appear so remarkable as the two pre
ceding ones, in which new planets and comets were disco
vered ; but it presents a series of important labours under
taken for the improvement of the science, either terminated
or begun.
    M. Piazzi has published at Palermo a very valuable work ;
a catalogue of nearly 7000 stars, each observed several times
with excellent instruments calculated and reduced to the
year 1800.     It was at the College de France that the author,
fifteen years ago, made preparations         for this immense la
bour.     We have received the catalogue of 500 stars by
M. Cagnoli, with their right ascensions and declinations,
which are very correct : on this work he has been employed
twenty years.
    Lalande my nephew, with his new aids and an immense
number of his own observations, has entirely reconstructed
the catalogue of 600 new stars, which for many years he
has inserted in the Connoissance des Temps, and wluch
serves as a foundation for the calculations of the greater,
part of our astronomers.
    As the stars are the foundation of all our astronomical
determinations, Dr. Maskelyne has carefully revised the
thirty-four stavs which he announced as having the utmost
degree of precision, and which we have all employed, as
being entitled to full confidence : he found in them an error
of 4*
    The interruption of our      correspondence       with   England
during the war has induced me to undertake             a very consi
derable labour.
       * From the Magazin Encythf>iti:que, do. is, Nivose, an iz
Vol. XVIII.      No.  71.          O                      -    I have

 210        History of Astronomy for     the Year 1803.
     I have calculated some hundreds of the sun's altitude!*
 observed in England and France, for several years back, be
 fore and after the equinox, and have deduced from them
 the sun's right ascension, and consequently that of the stars
which had Been compared with him.            I have found that it
                           '
is necessary to add 5 to the positions of the stars which
Dr. Maskelyne gave us as being certain to a second, and
 which all astronomers employed with the greatest security :
 but perceiving that observations made at the distance of 40°
 from the zenith and at 60° gave right ascensions which
 differed sometimes 15", I concluded that there were errors
 of division of b" in the interval of 20 degrees : it will there
 fore be necessary to recur to the whole circle, to verify the
 mural quadrants employed at Paris and at Greenwich.
     1 was at first surprised to find errors of 10" and then of
 CO" in the right ascensions ; but I thought them of less
 consequence     when I saw that from 42 to 45 degrees they
were 10", and that from 54 to 56 they amounted to 20".
 The medium, therefore, between results very different is
 found to be the same, because the altitudes correspond at
the two seasons, and the sum of the small errors compen
 sates for that of the great.
    To remedy this inconvenience in the divisions of the
mural quadrant, M. Delambrc this year observed the sun
for two months, partly before and partly after the autumnal
equinox, with a multiplying circle, and by 300 observations
he had places of the sun independent         of the stars.  But a
second in the refraction, or in the height of the pole, may
occasion all the uncertainty : it will, however, be removed at
the next equinox.
    Picard and La Hire in the seventeenth century made the
first correct observations for accomplishing this end, and
the French in the present century will have made the last
to attain it completely.
    Herschel asserts that the stars called Castor y of the
Lion, and several other double stars very near to each
other, turn round in periods of some centuries. M. Trics-
neeker is not of opinion with M. Flauguergucs, that in the
double star <?of the Great Bear the two parts have changed :
there are 14" distance between the two? stars of which it is
composed.
    M. Vidal has observed at Mirepois zones of the circum-
polar stars which were wanting.
    M. Delambre at the summer solstice made an observation
of the obliquity of the ecliptic with a multiplying circle'.
The mean of four years observations, and of two years made
                                                               by

            History of Astronomy for   the Year 1803.       211
by my nephew Lalande, gave as the mean for 1 800 23° 28' :
this is the result of more than 1 500 observations ; but it
supposes the height of the pole to be 48° 50' 13" instead of
14", and the latter supposes the refraction of Bradley in
creased by l".     By these means he makes the winter to
agree with the summer solstice, between which there was a
difference of 7 or 8".    The bad weather did not permit him
to observe the winter solstice with the circle which I caused
to be constructed by Lenoir for the observatory of Palermo.
The astronomers Bradley, Lacaille, and Mayer, found for
1"50 23° 28' 18- 5"; the secular decrease, therefore, would
be 42" per century ; and I prefer this result to that of the
equation of the sun produced by Venus, which would give
50".
   Dr. Maskelyne found with a mural quadrant at Green
wich 23° 27' 57"; but the English have not yet adopted
our repeating circles, with which one may be certain to a
second, and with which no errors in the divisions are to be
apprehended.
    Piazzi, at Palermo, found 23° 27' 56-6" with an excel
lent circle by Ramsden, but not a repeating circle.
    The Academy of Berlin has still proposed, for 1806, the
determination of the obliquity of the ecliptic, both by theory
and observation. The details are contained in the Moniteur
of November the first. But little remains to be done in that
respect.
    The refraction still contains a doubtful element ; it is the
correction required by the density of the atmosphere.
    M. Gay has presented to the Institute an interesting me
moir on this subject, and there is one in the Transactions
of the Society of Manchester : an extract of it has been
inserted in the Bibliothcque Britannique published at Ge
neva.
    The  measure  of a degree of the earth in Lapland, which
 M. Melanderhielm     has procured for us, and the calculations
it required, were transmitted to us in the month of April
by Messrs. Svanberg, Overborn, Holmquist, and Palander:
they have found the degree to be 57197 toises.      That found
by Maupertuis,    Clairaut,  Camus,   Lemonnier,  Outhier,  and
 Celsius, in 1 736, was 57405, which is greater by 208 toises^
This enormous difference was suspected.          The degree of
Lapland was at variance with all theory and with every
 other measurement : it gave to the earth too great a flatten
 ing ; whereas the new degree gives -j-^j-, whith is not much
 different from the  ^    given by the new meridian of France,
                               O  2       .           compared

    212        History of Astronomy for       the Year 1&03.
    compared with the degree measured in Peru.            It   is,
                                                                how
    ever, so difficult to admit an error of such magnitude, that
    we have requested information from Sweden on this subject;
       M. Mechain set out on the 26th of April 1803 for Spain,
    to continue the meridian of France to the 39th degree of
    latitude, that     to sav, as far as the Balcarian islands.
                        is                                        He
    was accompanied   Mechain junior, Dczauchc junior, and
                              by by
    they were joined  M. Chaix, an able Spanish astronomer.
        gave him an excellent circle of 19 inches radius, made
    by 1
          Lenoir;  telescope of
                    a            large aperture was added to
                                      a                              it
                                                                      :
    there arc twelve large reverberators, and .he will be able to
    continue his triangles to Majorca and Ivica, though at the
    distance of 93000 toiscs from the coast of Catalonia, in the
    months of January, February, and March, which are those
    most favourable for such observations. In the mean time
    he has formed six subsidiary triangles between Barcelona
    and Tortosa, as detailed in the Moniteur of November JS.
    But in the midst of storms and tempests, surrounded by
    thunder, and sleeping under tent upon straw, he has been
                                          a
    obliged, for the purpose of completing his operations, to
    cause wooden huts to be constructed on summits the cli
    mate of which      dreadful.
                         is       On the 27th of Octoberhe was
    on the highest peaks of Montserrat for his last triangle. On
    the 23d of November the whole were finished but the brig
                                                        ;
    destined to carrv him to the Balcarian islands, having lost
    twenty men       the yellow fever which broke out at Malaga,
                        by
    was obliged to perform quarantine, and Mechain could not
    proceed thither, though the court of Spain had given the
    necessary orders.    Atlength on the bth of January he set
'   out for Ivica, where he will commence his operations. It
    seems to be determined that the war shall not prevent this
    useful labour. By these means we shall have an exact mea
    surement of 12 degrees, the mean of which will be the 45th
    degree, the one we are most interested to know, to verify
    still better our universal measure and the magnitude of the
    earth.
        C. Chaptal, our learned minister, to whom all the arts
    and sciences are under daily obligations, and by whom the
     Col/i'ge de France has been revived, wished also to dispense
     to astronomy the favours of an enlightened government of
     which he     the organ.
                   is
        The observatory has received some new acquisitions. On
     the 7th of August
           1                meridian telescope eight feet Jong and
                                 a
    of four inches aperture, and an axis of 46 inches, made at
     London bv the celebrated Kanisden, was erected, and on
                                                               the

                    of Astronomy for
               History                                the   Ytar   1803.         213
the 6th    of September M. Bouvard   observed the moon : he
observed the equinox ; and these operations will not be in
terrupted.
   The minister has purchased a dividing machine for 1 2,000
francs, made by Samuel Rche : it is 43 inches, and was
bought by M. Andreossi after the death of that artist. It
has the same form as that of Ramsden, the description of
which I translated : it will probably be of use to our artists.
   The large telescope of Caroche, which is 22 feet, and
equal to that of Hcrschel of the same length, has hitherto
been useless, because it wanted a stand to support           and           it,
a terrace to be placed on.   M. Tremel, an able mechanist
who made the stand, died on the 13th of February, before
he could finish it. Caroche had      terrible fall in attempting
                                                  a
to use    it
           ; so that, notwithstanding the great expense we
have been at, our enjoyment      still retarded.
                                             is
   M. de Narcy has made prisms of rock crystal placed over
each other in such     manner, that the diameters of the sun
                              a
and moon can be measured bv the double refraction of
Rochon     :   father Boscovieh made use of                 it   to measure small
angles.
   M. Lenoir has made circle of 20 inches for M. Piazzi
                                    a
of Palermo, who proposes to measure             degree   he has
                                                             a         :
added to   it  powerful telescope.
                a
   Government,         decree of Vendemiaire 1st, determined
                          by   a
that the standards of the metre and of the kilogramme, and
of all the rules whieh have served for the different measures
of the earth         by
                  the French astronomers, shall be deposited
at the national observatory, under the inspection of the
Board of Longitude.
   The minister Chaptal has given         gratuity to M. Flau-
                                                      a
guergues, whose zeal for astronomy          still maintained at
                                                        is
Viviers in an exemplary manner.
   The minister, at my solicitation, caused also to be pur
chased, and deposited at the observatory, in the month
of August, the observations of M. Lemonnier, which                               I
have not had an opportunity of seeing.          They consist of
fourteen large volumes the observations, which terminate
                                   :
at the 30th"of October 1791, have been printed up to the
6th of June 745  1   but  :   only since the 8th of April 755
                                   it   is                                  1
that they were made with the mural of 7| feet.         As those
of Bradlev are printed only for "50 — 755, and as those of
                                              1         1
Dr. Maskelyne do not begin till the month of May 765,                      1
there is   gap of nearly ten years; to supply which we have
           a
recourse to the observations of M. Lemonnier,        though not
                                         0   3               su

214        History  of Astronomy for   the Year 1803.
so correct as those of Greenwich.     But Leinonnier observed
more stars.     I propose to unite to thi? deposit the observa
tions of Picard, Louville, Lacaille, Bouguer, Bailly, and
d'Agelet, which are in my hands.
    M. Bouvard has made at the Luxembourg, or palace
of the senate, an excellent meridian of mean time, which
it is much to be wished the public would use, as is done in
England and even at Geneva, and as those do who have
good time-keepers by Berthoud and Breguet. Our small
annuary gives the difference for each day, which amounts
at most to a quarter of an hour. On the 27th of September
 I renewed, at the Institute, the proposal of setting the ex
 ample by adopting mean time, which alone is regular, and
 can form a real measure.
    It has been apprehended that this might be a restraint
on the public, who make use of sun-diaFs ; arid the Insti
tute has thought that government in this measure ought to
take the lead by causing the clocks in the national buildings
 to be regulated by mean time. I do not despair of seeing
 adopted this new kind of exactness, which is necessary on
 account of the present improved state of the arts and the
 sciences.    M. Henry Lepaute, on the 26th of December,
 erected in the Institute a beautiful clock, which will serve
 as a regulator ; it indicates both mean and true time.
    The astronomy of the planets has this year made some
 progress.     M. Delambre has reconstructed tables of the
 sun, by introducing fourteen new equations furnished him
 by the theory of Laplace, and calculating 500 observations
 of Bradley and Maskelyne.        He has increased the mass of
 Venus, wnich he employed in 1 792, in the ratio of 92 to 104^
 and diminished that of Mars in the ratio of 100 to 72.
     The tables of the moon of M. Burg have been corrected
 by introducing new positions of the stars, and the equation
 of 180 years, found by Laplace. M. Burg has found the
  longitude of the moon for 1801 to be 3s 15° l' 17-3" +
  10-2" + 0-8", and the secular motion 10s 7° 52^ 43-5".
     On the 1st of November M. Burckhardt presented the
  result of his calculations, in which he found 4,6" less than
  the longitude given by M. Burg, whose tables come down
  only to the 1 7th of November.
  L. andanom. 1801 - 3" 15° l' 12-7" 0' 18° 56' 55-6"
  Secular mot. - - - 10          7  52 45-5     6 18 49 17*8
     The difference arises from the new equation of M. La
  place, which M. Burg, perhaps, made too small.
     The eclipse of the sun which took place on the 1 6th of
                                                         August

           His tori/ of Astronomy   for  t/ie Year 1S03.        215
August was observed almost every where ; it furnished us
with the verification of several longitudes, aud gave us a ri
gorous agreement in the tables.
   JVi. Burg, who refused to come to France with an advan
tageous appointment, has been indemnified by a pension
from the emperor.
   M. Leupold, who was employed with me in observations
and calculations, made preparations for observing the eclipse
at £ourdeaux with M. Lcscan, professor of hydrography;
M. Ducom, professor of navigation; and M. Thibaut, a
captain in the navy : but the weather was not favourable.
   I have made new tables of Mercury and Venus, by em
ploying the perturbations or inequalities produced by the
attraction of the other planets.       M. de Laplace had given
the equations estimated by M. Bouvard.
   M. Burckhardt calculated the tables.           I corrected the
elements according to the latest observations, and I have
had the satisfaction to see that the new ones arc so exact
that no errors of any consequence can be found in the most
correct observations of Mercury and Venus.
   M. Flauguergues has calculated the equation of Mercury
in tenths and seconds, and the logarithms to eight places.
   The following is the last inferior conjunction of Venus,
observed at Paris by Burckhardt and Lalande my nephew:
   Mean time of the true conjunction December 31st, 3I<»
 15' 3"; and the true longitude, counted from the mean
equinox, 9' 9° 19/ 5".
   It gives for the correction of the present tables, — 13" in
longitude, and — \" in latitude; but by means of the cor
rection which I made in the epochs and mean motions
there remains only l" of error for the longitude.         I find in
 1795, 1";  in  1796, 2";   in  1798, l";   in 1799, l";  in 1801,
zero : which proves that there is no change to be made in
the new elements.
   In the digression of March 13, 1803, M. Flauguergues
found + 21* and + 4".
   In the month of May 1 804 Venus will astonish the public
by her great splendour ; and we shall be obliged to announce
in our journals, that she is not a new star, nor an extraor
dinary comet.
   The opposition of Mars A the end of 1802 — 6" in
longitude, + 2" in latitude, for the tables which Lalande
my nephew published in the Connoissance des Temps for
the year 12, 1804.
   M. Bouvard has reconstructed the tables of Jupiter ac
cording to observations        made for ten years, employing
                                O 4                      equations

 216         History of Astronomy     for tlte   Year 1803.
 equations of conditions which give the means of verifying
 all the elements.        He has brought them to such perfection
 that the errors amount only to 10"; but the mass of Saturn,
 reduced to tsVs* is more exact than that deduced from the
 satellites.
    The opposition of Jupiter gives — 2" in longitude.
     The opposition of Saturn in the month of March gave
 for the correction of the tables in longitude — ] )", and in
 latitude zero. But M. Bouvard will undertake the same
 labour in regard to Saturn as that which he has announced
 on Jupiter.
    The disappearance of Saturn's ring, according to the cal
 culations of Dusejour, will not take place till the end of
 June.
     For  the end of December he found only an almost disap
pearance, or an instantaneous disappearance
                                                        * ; a tendency
to disappear f. But the disappearance was complete from
 the 20th of December to the 10th of January, according to
 M. Mechain and M. Flauguergues, at Viviers. I have
thence deduced the place of the node of Saturn's ring in
the ecliptic 5s 1 78 1 1'; the observations of 1774 gave 5' 1 7°
 291 : the difference is small, and makes only 1 8' in twenty-
nine years for the motion of the node of the ring.               I found
 still less for the anterior disappearances      J.
    The reappearance took place on the 14th of June, accord
ing to M. Flauguergues.
    On the 16th, according to M. Vidal j and the result was
nearly the same.
    Among the rare observations which M. Vidal has sent
us, there is one very extraordinary.         On the 11 th of Octo
 ber he observed Jupiter and Venus at the same time as the
limb of the sun : they differed only 10' in declination : he
saw them together in the field of the telescope.                 He ob*
served Saturn in the meridian 207 before, the sun.
    Olbers's planet, discovered on the 28th of March 1 802,
has this year afforded occupation to all the astronomers.              It
had been lost since the 16th of October 1802 ; we were all
impatient to see it again : M. Harding, of Lilienthal, first
enjoyed this satisfaction ; on the 19th of February he saw
it like a star of the twelfth magnitude.
    M. Messier followed it till the month of September, not
withstanding the extreme difficulty of seeing it with the best
telescopes.
    Messrs. Burckhardt        and Lalande my nephew observed
       * Vol. ii.
                  p. 114,    f  Page 155.      J  Astron.  art. 3355.
                                                                       it

            History  of Astronomy for tlie Year 1603.      21 7
it  at the   Military School, or Maison du Champ de Mars,
as  long as it could be seen on the meridian. They found
the opposition on the 29th of June 1803 at 23h 57' 10"
mean time in 9' 7° 39',. with 46° 26' 36" of latitude.
    On the 1 1th of July M. Burckhardt gave us the new ele
ments, by which we can find it again in the month of March
next.
    The sidereal revolution, 1681 days -fifo; tropical revolu
tion 1680-97, or 4 years 7 months 11 days.
          Semi-axis       -     -   -     2-767123
          Aphelion         -      -    4s   1° 6' 46"
          Node        -      -    -    5 22 27 35
          Inclination        -    -    0 34 38 50
          Anomaly,    June   30   -   10   19   9  0
Which gives for the mean longitude the 1st of January
 1804, 9s 29° 52/ 58"; eccentricity the same as in the pre
 ceding elements, 0-2463 ; diurnal motion, 12' 50-933''; an
nual motion, 78° 10" 9".
    M. Burckhardt has been employed in calculating the per
 turbations experienced by the planets of Fiazzi and Olbers.
 In consequence of the attraction of Jupiter these calcula
 tions are exceedingly complex, because the higher powers
 of the eccentricity and inclination produce a great number
 of terms.                                                      .
    He    has given formulae of the perturbations to the 5th
 power; and he even believes that the eleventh power might
 furnish sensible terms for that of Olbers. He is engaged
 in these researches.
     On the 1 6th of Thermidor of the year 1 1 , according to
 the senatus consultum of the 26th of Vendemiaire preced
 ing, government admitted M. Burckhardt to the privileges
 of a French citizen. Want of this admission prevented
 him from being a member of the Institute at the last elec
 tion.    Government wished to indemnify him by a flattering
 distinction due to exalted merit. This is a new encourage
 ment to the labours with which he daily enriches astro
 nomy,
     On the 4th of April the Institute decreed, for the first
 time, the prize of astronomy which I founded the preced
 ing year.     It was adjudged to Dr. Olbers for his discovery
 of a tenth planet.
     I see with regret, that the Germans have no more respect
  for Dr. Olbers than they have for Dr. Herschel. The name
 of Pallas has no foundation : jealousy, perhaps, is the cause
  of this injustice.
     I have had the satisfaction to find that astronomy is ex-
                                                       tending

 91 a       History of Astronomy far   the Year 1803.
 tending even in America.       Don Antonio de Robredo has
 sent nie from the Havannah minute calculations of the
 eclipse of the sun, on the 1 Oth of February 1 804, made by
 the analytical methods of M. Dusejour, for every country of
 the earth, with all the dimensions of the curves of illumi
 nation.    These calculations, more extensive and more exact
 than those in the Connoissance des Temps for the year 1 2,
 arrived too late to be inserted in that work } which I much
 regretted.
    The French government has resolved to re-establish the
 mission to China, which is equally useful to the sciences
and to political relations. One of our ablest astronomers
has formed the project of going thither ; and however great
his utility may be here, I did not oppose this plan of going
to a distance from us, in order that he may still be of more
service to us.
   The duke of Brunswick has resolved to cause an observa
tory to be constructed. Baron von Zach has been at Bruns
wick for that purpose ; and I have thanked, in the name of
all astronomers, the prince who increases the number of
heroes, protectors of astronomy, whom I have mentioned
in the preface to my work on that subject.
   The Italian republic has requested an astronomer to co
operate with M. Ciccolini in the observations made in the
Institute of Bologna.
    M. Vassalli-Eandi has requested that the observatory of
Turin may be put into a state of activity.
   The margrave of Baden, having taken possession of Man-
heim on the 23d of November 1802, preserved the instru
ments of the observatory; and M. Bary has announced to
me a new series of observations.
   My Bibliographie Astronomique appeared on the 5th of
June in a quarto volume of 900 pages. It contains as large
a catalogue, as I was able to make, in the course of thirtv
years, of all the astronomers and all the works on astronomy
which have appeared for two thousand years.
   Bailly's large History of Astronomy terminated at 1781 :
I have continued it to the end of 1 802.
   M. Goudin has given a new edition of his Astronomical
Memoirs.
   On the 17th of March the Board of Longitude published
the Connoissance des Temps for the year 13, which contains
every thing relating to astronomy that has been done in the
countries where it is cultivated : -the history and observa
tions of the new planets and of the last comets; a new ca
talogue, which makes the number of the stars known to be
                                                      13,000 j

           History  of Astronomy for   the Year 1803.       41 §
1 3,000  ; memoirs and observations     by baron von Zach and
M. Ciccolini, Delambre, Mechain, Vidal, Flauguergues,
Goudin, Sorlin, Lalande uncle and nephew, Burckhardt,
Nouet, Chabrol de Murol, and Thulis ; with the History
of Astronomy for     the years 8 and 9, to serve as a continua
tion of that given for the preceding years since 1 782.
    The Connoissance des Temps for the year 14 is on the point
of appearing : it contains all the calculations of the moon
made from our new tables for the use of the navy, with
a great number of observations, tables, and memoirs, by
Laplace, Delambre, Vidal, Herschel, Messier, Burckhardt,
Laiande uncle and nephew, Olbers, Thulis, Flauguergues,
and Duc-la-Chapelle ; the history of astronomy for 1802 ;
 supplements to my Bibliographic; tables of aberration for
 140 stars, a twelfth catalogue of new stars, a table of the
 changes in longitude and latitude for 600 principal stars,
 the measurement      of the degree in Lapland, and a table of
 all the articles contained in the forty-five last volumes of
 the Connoissance des Temps since 1760, when I began to
 keep a register of the annual progress of astronomy.
     M. Legendre has given to the Institute a new formula
 for the reduction of the apparent distances, with tables for
 simplifying the use of them : there are already a great num
 ber : we shall have an opportunity of choosing that which
 appears the easiest and shortest.
     M. de Laplace has given in the      Bulletin a theory of the
  deviation of falling bodies, in consequence of the expe
  riments of M. Guglielmini and Henzenberg.            The result
  is, that the deviation ought to be null towards the south,
  though M. Guglielmini found it to be three lines.           But
  these experiments are so difficult to be made, and the resist
  ance of the air so little known, that this does not impeach
  the results  of M. Guglielmini.
      The Ephemerides of Milan for 1 802 contain observations
  of Mercury; of the occultation of the Spica Vireinis on the
   30th of March 1 801 ; tables of the annual parallax of Mars,
   of the precession of the stars, and of the motion peculiar to
   a great number of them.
      Those of 1803 contain the perturbations of Piazzi's planet
   by M. Oriani, and observations of that planet and of that of
   Olbers.
      M. Laurent Regnier, professor of astronomy        at Upsal,
   has published a dissertation   De Massis Cometarum.
      The Ephemerides of Vienna for 1804 contain observa
   tions of different places by M. Triesnccker and M. Burg.
                                                              The

    220        History  of Astronomy for    the Year 1803.
   The   latter gives a series of observations of the moon, which
   may serve to verify his tables.
      On the 24th of September 1803 we received the tenth
   volume of the Transactions of the Italian Society, which
   contains a valuable catalogue of the stars by M. Cagnoli ;
   the opposition of Herschel in 1 794 by Slop and oppositions
  of Mars by Chiminelli, at Padua, in 1790, 1792, and 1794.
      The Society of the Sciences at Warsaw has published a
  volume of memoirs, in which there are observations by
  M.    Sniadecki.
      On the 24th of October 1 803 we received the Memoirs
  of the Academy of Sciences at Berlin for 1 799 and 1 800,
  in which there are anecdotes for the History of the Mathe
  matics by Bernoulli; the pendulum which awings seconds
  at Berlin, by M. Burja, 3 f , 2 in. 0'24 lines; a memoir on
  the problem of the precession of the equinoxes, by the for
  mulae of Lagrange, by M. John Trembley ; and astrono-
  mical observations 1798 — 1800 by M. Bode.
      My small stereotype tables of logarithms, the most exact,
  most convenient, and cheapest ever published, have been
  again collated by M. Bubna : no faults were found in them ;
  and I announced that I would give a hundred francs for
 each fault which might be discovered.
     Besides the interesting journal of baron Von Zaeh, enti
 tled Monatliche Correspondenz der Erde und Himmelkunde,
 there    is one at  Weimar     entitled Algenle'me  Geographische
 Ephemeriden, by Gaspari and Bertucn : the number for Fe
 bruary 1 803 contains an engraving of the celebrated astro
 nomer Joseph Nicholas de l'lsle, from a painting at Paris
 in the possession of Messier.
 . We have received the Memoirs of the Academy of Pe-
 tersburgh for 1795 and 1796, in which there are observa
 tions or Henry; memoirs by Schubert on the theory of the
moon and on the transits of Mercury ; one by M. Rumouski
on the figure of the earth; two by M. Kraft on nautical
astronomy; and one by M. Inochodzof on the heights of
several places observed by the barometer,
     M. NovoziltzofF, president of the academy, has caused to,
be placed in the observatory a beautiful transit instrument,
which he purchased from Kamsden during his residence at
London. On the 25th of July he obtained an increase of
the funds of the academy.
     M. Wisniewski, of Warsaw, has been invited to Peters-
burgh on the recommendation of professor Bode, whom he
assisted.      He arrived there on the 1st of Augustj and began,
                                                                his

       Letter to Governor Pownall from         Dr. Thornton.       221
his labours in the observatory with great zeal. The presi
dent expects to draw to Petersburgh an astronomer of repu
tation.
   Hitherto we have seen no native of Russia distinguish
himself in that country by astronomy.            But I experienced
an agreeable surprise, and entertain consoling hopes, when
I see young Alexander Oulibisheff, at the age of ten, con
verse with me on astronomy in a manner I never before
witnessed, even in France, from persons of twenty years of
age.     He was born at Moscow on the 27th of November
1793.
   The emperor of Russia/in the new statutes of the imperial
university of Vilna, issued on the Sth of May, ordered that
there    shall   be an  observer and professor of astronomy.
M. Poczobut, who         has long resided there, is a pledge that
our science will    not be neglected.
   M. Sniadecki, a Polish astronorner, formerly of Cracow,
not having been able to obtain from the Austrian govern
ment the necessary assistance for that observatory, has pre
ferred the observatory of Vilna, where he will assist M. Poc
zobut.
   M. Honore Ponz, an ingenious clockmaker, whose ex
cellent clocks I have announced, has this year made an imL
portant improvement by adding free escapements, which
are ingenious, and which bv means of remontoirs leave no
room for the inequalities of ravage to affect the motion of
the pendulum.        He presented a description of it to the In
stitute on the 12th of December.
                          [To  be continued.]
  XXXVIII. A        Letter to Governor        Pownall from Dr.
                            Thornton.
                                                    April 16, 1804.,
                                                  No. 1, Hmde-strect,
     Sin,                                         Manclicster-i^uare.
J. was      pleased to find a gentleman of your sound judg
ment, matured by the enjoyment of long life, chiefly con
secrated to science, observing the changes of men and
things, recalling the philosophic world to the sentiments
entertained by our forefathers.         When Dr. Priestley made
his discoveries in chemistry, like John Hunter he disclaimed
all the advantages of reading; and the French chemists,
catching at the seemingly new lights he threw out, formed
a  brilliant system    which went to acknowledge no authori.-
          .   3                                                    ties

 fi22              Letter to Governor Powndtl
 ties but their own.    You, sir, even in the new sciende of
galvanism, have advanced the sentiments of Sir Isaac New
 ton ; and in this letter I shall extract from a very scarce
work, cutitled A Treatise on the Animal Economy, by Dr.
Bryan Robinson, (published in 1734, in Dublin, the second
edition,) some passages which show" the advances then made
in chemistry and the animal oeconomy. In the preface this-
learned writer says :    " Harvey, from experiments and ob
servations, traced out the circular motion of the blood.
After him Lower made some further discoveries concerning
that motion, and the causes by which it may be disturbed.
After these great men, the knowledge of the animal oeco
nomy received no very considerable improvement till Sir
Isaac Newton discovered the causes of muscular motion
and secretion ; and likewise furnished materials for explain
ing digestion, nutrition, and respiration.        To him I am
chiefly indebted for what I have delivered on those heads."
    He then goes on, in a most ingenious and satisfactory train
of deep reasoning, to establish very curious and interesting
propositions respecting the motion of the blood, in twenty-
 three proposi lions, and then proceeds to
                         "
    Proposition xxiv. — The life of animals is preserved by
acid parts of tlw air mixed with, tile blood in the lungs ; which
parts dissolve or attenuate tlie blood, and preserve its heat j
and by botli{tltese keep zip the motion of the heart.
    " I shall prove the truth of this proposition from a series
of experiments and observations.
    "First, then, animals die when they are deprived of air by
stopping the wind-pipe, or putting them in an air-pump
and drawing out the air.      And they likewise die soon in a
small quantity of air so closely confined as to have no com
munication with the rest of the atmosphere : small birds
 cannot live above three or four hours in a quart of such air;
and a gallon of air included in a bladder, and by a pipe al
ternately inspired and expired by the lungs of ,a man, will
become unfit to preserve life in little more than one minute
of time.
    (t Hence it
                  appears that air is necessary to preserve the
life of animals ; and likewise, that a constant supply of fresh
air is necessary to that end.
    " Secondly, A candle goes out, glowing coals and red-
hot iron cease to shine, and animals die, in the air-pump
on drawing out the air. A candle goes out, glowing coals
and red-hot iron cease to shine, and animals die, in a small
quantity of air so closely confined as to have no communi
cation with the rest of the atmosphere.       Animals die in air
                                                        rendered

                      from Dr. Thornton.                        223
rendered effete by burning coals or candles in it till they arc
extinguished, and glowing coals or candles are extinguished
in air rendered effete by animals breathing in it till they die.
Hook found, that if air rendered effete be blown on live
coals, it produces no other effect than to blow off the ashes
and put out the fire ; and that the more you blow, the more
dead is the light, and the sooner is the fire quite extinct; in
somuch that in a very little time the coals become perfectly
black, without emitting the least glimpse of light or shin
ing : at which time if one blast of fresh air be blown upon
those seemingly dead, extinct, and black coals, they all
begin to glow, burn, and shine afresh, as if they had not
been at alfextinct ; and the more fresh air is blown upon
them, the more they shine, and the sooner are they burnt
out and consumed : and animals put into such effete air
soon die, though for some time they breathe and move their
lungs as before.    The medium found in damps is present
death to those who breathe           it,
                                and in an instant extinguishes
the brightest flame, the shining of glowing coals, or red-
hot iron, when put into it.         Common air,            by
                                                         passing
through red-hot brass, red-hot iron, red-hot charcoal, or
the flame of spirit of wine, becomes unfit to preserve life,
and the shining of fire and flame.
    " Hence  it  appears that fresh air preserves life in ani
mals    bythe very same power, or by the operation of the
very same parts, whereby       preserves fire and flame in sul
                                    it
phureous   and  unctuous  substances  when once they are kin
dled.
    " Thirdly, If two parts of compound spirit of nitre be
poured on one part of oil of cloves or caraway seeds, or of
any ponderous oil of vegetable or animal substances, or oil
of turpentine thickened with little balsam of sulphur, the
                                         a
liquors grow so very hot in mixing, as presently to send up
a  burning flame  :   if
                       adrachm of the same compound spirit
be poured upon half      drachm of oil of caraway seeds, even
                           a
in vacuo, the mixture immediately makes         flash like gun
                                                       a
powder: and well rectified spirit of wine poured on the
same compound spirit flashes.       Common sulphur and ni
tre powdered, mixed together, and kindled, will continue
to burn under water, or in vacuo, as well as in the open
air.
    "Nowjsince air   necessary to preserve common fire and
                       is
flame  in sulphureous and unctuous substances when once
they are kindled, (and         it
                         appears             by
                                      these experiments that
fire and flame may both be produced and preserved in sul
phureous and unctuous substances                  by
                                          acid particles even
                                                      without

824              Letter to Governor PoibnaU
without air,) it follows that air preserves fire and flame br
means of acid particles; and since it preserves the life of
animals by the operation of the very same particles whereby
it preserves fire and flame, it likewise follows that it pre
serves the life of animals by its acid particles.
  "   Fourthly, The venal blood is of a deep purple colour,
and the arterial blood of a bright red, in all parts of the body
except the lungs ; and in them the blood is of a dark purple
colour in the pulmonary artery, and of a bright red in the
pulmonary vein. Hence it follows that the blood changes
its deep purple colour into a bright red in the communicant
branches of the pulmonary artery and vein which are spread
on the vesicles, and that it changes its bright red into a
deep purple colour in the communicant branches of the ar
teries anil veins of other parts.   If blood be drawn out of a
vein, its surface, which is contiguous to the air, will acquire
the same bright red colour which the blood acquires in the
lungs ; and if this red surface be cut off with a sharp knife*
the blackish surface of the remaining blood, being now
touched and acted upon by the air in the same manner as
the first, will acquire the same colour as that did ; and the
fame change of colour will be made in the bottom of the
cake, if it dc turned upwards in the cup, and exposed to
the air; and if blood just drawn be stirred and agitated till
the air be intimately mixed with it throughout, its whole
substance will soon acquire the bright red colour of arterial
blood.    If the windpipe be stopped with a cork, and some
time after the operation (when the air which is shut up in
the lungs is made effete, that      is,
                                     deprived of its acid parts)
blood be drawn from the cervical artery,           will have the.
                                                       it
same dark purple colour as venal blood.
    " Now, since from these experiments the air must touch
venal blqod drawn out of the body to change its deep purple
colour into a   bright red, and the acid parts of the air cause
the same change of colour in the blood in the lungs,          will  it
follow that there must be   a  like contact of these acid parts
with the blood in the lungs and since have shown that
                                :               I
air preserves the life of animals         by
                                          its acid parts,     will
likewise follow that the life of animals                      acid  by it
                                               in is
                                               preserved
parts of the air mixing with the blood        the
    " Fifthly, The bright red colour acquired lungs.the blood
                                                            is by
in the lungs, from its purity and intenseness,          the red of
the second order of colours in the table of Sir Isaac New
ton's Optics, p. 206  :   but the blackish or deep purple co
lour of venal blood turns into this bright red without pass-
lag through the colours of blue, green, yellow, and orange,
                                                              and

                           from Dr. Thornton.                    225
  and therefore must arise from the indigo and purple of the
  third order, and not from the indigo and violet of the se
 cond ; and consequently by that table the tingeing corpus
 cles of the blood are lessened jn the lungs.
     "  Hence it appears that the acid parts of' the air dissolve
 or attenuate the blood in the lungs.
     " Oil of vitriol and water poured successively into the same
 vessel grow very hot in the mixing : aquafortis^ or spirit
 of vitriol, poured upon filings of iron, dissolves the filings
 with, a great heat and ebullition : and the acid of the air
 constantly applied to sulphureous and unctuous substances,
 when once they are kindled, continues to dissolve them with
 the heat of fire and flame.
    "   From these experiments we learn, that it is the nature
of acids to dissolve bodies with heat; and therefore, since        I
 have shown that the acid of the air dissolves the blood, it
 must be allowed that it warms the blood at the same time
 it dissolves it.
     "  When animals are deprived of the acid of the air, the
 pulse in less than one minute of time becomes small and
quick ; as may be observed in a dog, when his lungs are
 made flaccid and without motion by laying open his thorax.
 Upon emptying my lungs of air as much as I could, and
 then stopping my breath, my pulse has grown small and
           with a kind of trembling convulsive motion, in less
Suick,
   lan half a minute of time. And Thurston observed the
 pulse to grow smaller on an intermission of respiration, and
greater again on repeating it.
     " Hence it appears that the motion of the heart lessens im
mediately on animals being deprived of the acid of the air ;
 and consequently that this acid, by dissolving or attenuating
the blood and preserving its heat, keeps up the motion of
the heart.
    " Therefore the proposition is true.
                               "  Scholium.
    *' 1. The motion of      the lungs in breathing is no otherwise
necessary     to the  life  of animals, than as by this motion the
lungs    receive  a constant    supply of fresh air.
    "  For Hook, after he had laid open the thorax of a dog,
cut away his ribs and diaphragm, and taken off the peri
cardium, kept him alive, before the Royal Society of Lon
don, above an hour, by blowing fresh air into his lungs
with a pair of bellows. It was observed, that as often as he
left off blowing, and suffered the lungs to subside and lie
still, the dog presently fell into dying convulsive motions,
and soon recovered again on renewing the blast. After he
had done this several times with like success, he pricked all
    Vox.. XVIII. No. n.               P                         the

2:26               letter   to Governor    Potinall
the outer coat of the lungs with the slender point of a sharp
penknife, and by a constant blast made with a double pair
of bellows    he kept the lungs always distended and without
motion ; and it was observed, that while the lungs were thus-
kept distended with a constant supply of fresh air, the dog
lay still, his eyes were quick, and his heart beat regularly ;
but that upon leaving off blowing, and suffering the lungs
to subside and lie still, the dog presently fell into dying
convulsive motions, and as soon recovered again on renew
ing the blast, and supplying the lungs with fresh air.
    " 2. The motion of the lungs in breathing does not change
the colour 6f the blood in that part.
    " For Lower, on opening the pulmonary vein of a dog near
trie left auricle of the heart, when his lungs were kept dis
tended and without motion by a constant supply of fresh
air, observed the blood drawn to have the same florid co
lour as the arterial brood of other parts.
    " Furth.T, if the motion of the lungs changes the colour
of the blood from a dark purple to a bright red, I see no
 reason why the motion of the muscles, when continued for
 some time, should not keep up that red colour in the veins;
and consequently, why, under strong exercise, venal blood,
contrary to experience, should not be of a bright red colour.
For a strong and vigorous motion of the muscles must un
doubtedly contribute as much to preserve the bright red
 colour of arterial blood, as the motion of the lungs contri
butes to produce it.
     " 3. The death of animals and extinction of flame in a
 confined air are not caused by a diminution of its elasticity.
     " For there is sometimes as great a diminution of elas
 ticity in the air in violent storms of wind, and hurricanes,
 as there is in a small quantity of confined air at the time
 when animals die, and candles go out in                it,
                                                      and yet no such
 effects follow.     Further, if   animals die and candles go out
 in confined air from
   a                         a   diminution of its elasticity, then"
 these effects would not be produced              different quantities
                                                   in
 of confined air until its elasticity was equally diminished in
 them; but    it   has been found    by   experiments, that at the
  time when animals die and candles go out               two different
                                                              in
  quantities  of  confined  air,  there   is  greater
                                               a       diminution    of
  elasticity in  the  smaller  quantity  than   in  the  greater: and
                                                              by
  therefore life and flame are Qot destroyed               diminution
                                                              a
  of the elasticity of the air. This        further confirmed from
                                           is
  an experiment mentioned above       ;   for    effete air, however
                                                   if
  forcibly blown on live coals,- extinguishes them in like man
  ner asit   does when in    a  state of rest, then the same effete
  air, which in    a quiescent state cannot preserve life, will not
                                                                    be

                                                            •
                           from Dr. Thornton.                                      827
be able to do it when it is pressed into the lungs with any
force, even a greater than is sufficient to swell the air-
vessels to their usual magnitudes : and therefore animals do
not die in a confined air, from the vesiculce not being suf
ficiently dilated on account of a diminution of the elasticity
of the air.            A
                 diminution of the elasticity of the air is no
otherwise hurtful than as it hinders the vesicles from being
sufficiently dilated, and thereby hinders the blood from re
ceiving its usual quantity of acid in a given time ; on which
account the blood will not be sufficiently dissolved and
warmed in the lungs; which will make respiration quick
and uneasy, but cannot cause sudden death."
    His xxviith Proposition     —" The nourishment
                                      is,                animals         of
changes its texture       their bodies till
                           in                 becomes  like their
                                                       it
solid and durable parts.
   " For the solid and durable parts of animal bodies grow
out of their nourishment        but their growth
                                      ;             from an ad      is
dition and adhesion of like parts, and therefore the nourish
ment of animals changes its texture in their bodies till                               it
becomes like their solid and durable parts.
   " Cor. l. Hence appears that animals will not be rightly
                           it
nourished when their nourishment does not change its tex
ture in their bodies till    becomes like their solid and dura
                                 it
ble parts.
    "  Cor. 2. Hence                                                                   by
                             appears that the nourishment,
                                it
changing its texture in the bodies of animals, becomes
more dry and earthy than          was before, otherwise
                                      it                     would       it
not be like their solid and durable parts.
    " Proposition xxviii.— The texture                 of
                                                 the nourishment                       is
                             animals       gentle heat and motion.
              in                                 by
changed       the bodies        of
    " The first remarkable change in the texture of the nou
                                                 a
rishment       made in the stomach: in this bowel the solid
                  is
parts   of the   food are dissolved and intimately mixed with
the fluids.    This mixture       usually called chyle.
                                      is
    " Some, from observing that fluids have power of dis        a
solving bodies, have thought that           fluid in the stomach
                                                  a
dissolves the food and turns           into chyle but as
                                            it                 docs
                                                                ;             it
not appear from experiments and observations that there                                is
a  fluid    the stomach endued with such
             in                                    power, this opi
                                                            a
nion     without foundation.
        is
    "  Others, from observing the great strength of the giz
zards of fowls, and that there         commonly gravel found in
                                            is
them, have imagined that the food             dissolved in the to
                                                      is                           :
rn achs of fowls, and consequently in the stomachs of all
                  it by
animals,        attrition or grinding.    But      this opinion be
                                                           if
examined,        will likewise appear to be without foundation                         ;
for the food of fowls        mostly grain, all sorts of which are
                                is
                                      P     2     .            hard

 938                              Letter to Governor Pownall
  hard and covered with tough skins ; and therefore befot*
 this food can be dissolved and turned into chyle, it must be
  softened and its skins ground oft"; the first of which is done
 by warmth and moisture in the craw, and the second by
  attrition in the gizzard.         By these contrivances the food
 of fowls is prepared and fitted for digestion, as human
  food is by cookery and other ways of preparing                      and                  it,
 by the grinding of the teeth.           But     we should grant   if that
 the food of fowls       dissolved and turned into chyle
                                  is                               attri                   by
  tion,     will
            it              by
                      no means follow that food             so dissolved         is
  and turned into chyle in           human stomach, which has no
                                                a
 gravel   in      and it,
                       has   but   very little muscular strength in
 comparison      of  the gizzards of fowls.       There may be many
 different contrivances in different species of animals, to
 soften, grossly divide, and prepare their food for digestion                                      ;
 but    itwill not from thence follow that their food digested                        is
 or turned into chyle                      by
                                different causes.
        "
        The food dissolved and turned into chyle
                             is                                   gentle              by   a
 heat and motion.         Heat makes manv bodies fluid which
 are not fluid in cold.       Lead      melted by    isheat eight times      a
 as great as the external heat of             human body; tin, a
                                                                                                   by
                                                                                                   a
 heat six times as great        wax,       ; heat twice as great
                                                          by a        and                      ;
 bones, with the addition of little water, are dissolved in
                                                     a                                              a
 digester         by
                heat in    little time. If the heat of the stomach
                                   a
be nearly equal to that of the blood,                may be sufficient, it
 when the orifices of the stomach are pretty exactly closed,
 to dissolve the food in         few hours, and turn
                                            a               into chyle           it                ;
 especially   when         assisted
                                 it
                                 is                  by
                                          the motion of the stomach,
which         agitating and mixing the food will contribute to
                 by
this end.      For, since heat can dissolve solid bodies, and no
thing       found
            is      in human stomach, besides
                                  a                         gentle heat          a
and motion, which can dissolve the food and turn                     into                  it
chyle,       will follow that the food
             it                                 digested   or dissolved,
                                                                   is
and turned into chyle,                      by
                                     gentle heat and motion.
     " The chyle in moving through the intestines further
                                                 a
                                                                                      is
dissolved             by
                  heat and motion          and the finest part of this
                                                         ;
fluid being conveyed into the blood,             still further changed
                                                                   is
it by the same causes, namely,          gentle heat and motion, till
                                                     a
     puts on the form of blood, and, at last, becomes fit to
nourish the body           being made like its solid and durable
                                   by
parts. The growth of the chicken in the shell out of the
white of the egg            strong proof of the truth of this for
                                  is   a                                                       :
here       manifestly nothing, besides
            is                                   gentle heat and mo a
tion, to change the white of the egg so as to convert               into                   it
blood, and render         fit nourishment for all the parts of an
                                  it
animal body.
    " Cor. Hence animals will not be rightly nourished when
                                                                      the

                              from Dr. Thornton.             239
 the texture of their food is not rightly changed in their bo
 dies by heat and motion ; which may be owing either to
 an unfitness in the food for such a change, or to degrees of
 heat and motion unfit to effect it.
    " Proposition xxix. — The constituent solid parts of ani~
 vials, according to tlicir several natures, are endued with,
 peculiar attractive powers of certain magnitudes or strengths,
 by which they draw out of the fluids moving through tlienv
 like parts in certain quantities, and therely preserve their
forms and just magnitudes.
     " For, without altractive powers agreeable to their na
 tures, the constituent solid parts of animals cannot draw
 like particles out of the fluids moving through them, and
 consequently, cannot preserve their forms ; and unless these
 powers be of certain strengths, they cannot draw those parts
 in such quantities as are proper to preserve their magni
 tudes : and there/ore the proposition is true.
     " Cor. 1 . Hence bodies will not be rightly nourished by
 proper food, changed by just degrees of heat and motion,
 when the attractive powers of their solid parts are changed
 either in their natures or in their magnitudes.
    " Cor. 2. Hence animals of the same species will grow
 faster or slower out of the same nourishment rightly changed
 by heat and motion, as the attractive powers of their solid
 parts are stronger or weaker : and universally their growth
 in a given time will be greater or less, as the attractive
 powers of corresponding parts are greater or less ; or as the
 fluids moving through those parts abound more or less with
 similar particles, that         is,
                              with particles rightly fitted to be
 attracted     by
                those powers.
                              " General   Scholium.
     "
     I  have shown that the nourishment of animals becomes
more dry and earthy in their bodies, and that this change      is
effected    by gentle heat and motion.
                 a                      How     gentle heat
                                                      a
and motion cause this change in the nourishment, may be
understood from what Sir Isaac Newton has delivered con
cerning the nature of salt.      This great man, finding from
experiments and      observations   that salts are dry earth and
watry  acid  united  bv attraction,   and that the earth will not
become     asalt without so much acid as makes        dissolvable
                                                      it
in water, has given the following account of the formation
of   particles   ofsalt
     "
                          :
     ' As gravity makes the sea flow round the denser and
weightier parts of the globe of the earth, so the attraction
may make the watry acid flow round the denser and com-
pacter particles of earth for composing^ the particles of salt :
                              P3                            for

 230                 Letter to Governor PotunaU
 for otherwise the acid would not do the office of a medium
between the earth and common water, for making salts dis
solvable in water ; nor would salt of tartar readily draw off
the acid from dissolved metals, nor metals the acid from
mercury.     Now, as in the great globe of the earth and sea
the densest bodies by their gravity sink down in water, and
always endeavour to go towards the centre of the globe, so
in particles of salt the densest matter may always endeavour
to approach the centre of the particle : so that a particle of
salt may be compared to a chaos, being dense, hard, dry,
and earthy in the centre 5 and rare, soft, moist, and watry,
in the circumference. And hence it seems to be that salts
are   of a lasting nature, being scarce destroyed, unless by
  drawing away their watry parts by violence, or by letting
  them soak into the pores of the central earth by a gentle
 heat in putrefaction, until the earth be dissolved by the water
 and separated into smaller particles, which by reason of
 their smallncss make the rotten compound appear of a black
 colour.    Hence also it may be that the parts of animals
 and vegetables preserve their several forms, and assimilate
 their nourishment ; the soft and moist nourishment easily
 changing its texture by a gentle heat and motion, till it be
 comes like the dense, hard, dry, and durable earth in the
 centre of each particle.    But when the nourishment grows
 unfit to be assimilated, or the central earth grows too feeble
 to assimilate it,  the motion ends in confusion, putrefac
 tion, and death.'"— Newt. Opt. p. 361, 362.
     " Hence it  appears that to render the saline part of the
 aliment fit to nourish the solid parts of animals and vegeta
 bles, part of the superficial watry acid must     by   heat and
 motion be drawn off from the particles of salt,         bywhich
 they will become more dense, hard, dry, and earthy, like
 the solid and durable parts of the bodies   :    and, according
 to the different degrees of heat and motion in the different
 species of animals and vegetables, the watry moisture will
be drawn off in different proportions, so as in each species
to render the particles like the solid parts of the bodies of
that species.
    " And further, we consider that water very fluid taste
                  if                        is
                                             a
less salt, and that animals and vegetables, with their several
parts, grow out of water and watry tinctures and" salts, we
may, trom what has been said, understand the manner           in
which the nourishment of animals and vegetables     is  changed
bya   gentle heat and motion till  it become like the solid and
durable parts of their respective bodies.
  "   Proposition xxx. — Tlie glands in the todies of   animals,
                                                     according

                        from Dr. Thornton.                                      231
according to their several natures and dispositions, are en
dued with peadiar attractive powers by which tliey suck in
various juices from the plood.
    " That the glands of animals have such attractive pow
ers, I shall prove from experiments and observations:
  "   ' If'two plane polished plates of
                                          glass (suppose two pieces
of a polished looking-glass) be laid together, so that their
sides be parallel and at a verv small distance from one an
other, and then their lower edges be dipped into water, the
water will rise up between them. And the less the distance
of the glasses    is,  the greater w    be the height to which the
                                        ill
water will rise.        If the distance be about the hundredth,
part of an inch, the water will rise to the height of about
an inch  ;      if
              and     the distance be greater or less in any pro
portion,     the  height will be reciprocally proportional to the
distance very nearly.         The weight of the water drawn up
being    the   same,    whether   the distance between the glasses
be greater or less, the force which raises the water and sus
pends   it  must be likewise the same, and suffer no change
by changing the distance of the glasses. And             like manin
ner, water ascends between two marbles, polished plane,
when their polished 3ides are parallel and at             verv little
                                                                 a
distance from one another.           And     slender pipes of glass
                                               if
be dipped at one end into stagnating water, the water will
rise up within the pipe, <and the height to which               rises      it
will be reciprocally proportional to the diameter of the ca
vity of the pipe, and will equal the height to which            rises      it
between two planes of glass,             the semi-diameter of the
                                        if
cavity of the pipe be equal to the distance, between the
planes, or thereabouts.           And these experiments succeed
after the same manner         in vacuo as      in
                                             the open air, (as hath
been tried before the Royal Society,) and therefore are not
influenced   by    the weight or pressure of the atmosphere.' "—
See Newt. Opt. p. 366, 367-
    " Now, since the rise and suspension of water between two
glass planes, and        insmall glass pipes, are not owing to the
 pressure    of  the atmosphere, they must be caused          an at    by
tractive power in the glass proportional to the weight of
water sustained         by it. Let H,h denote the heights of the
 column of water sustained between the two glass planes and
 of the cylinder sustained in           small glass pipe; B,p the
                                        a
 breadth of the column and periphery of the cylinder; and
 D, the thickness of the column and diameter of the cy-
    d
 linder :   and then the attractive power which sustains the                s
 column will be     as    HBD,     or   as    B,   because   H   is   as   —;   and
                                    P4                                           the

232                       Letter to Governor Poumatt
the attractive power which sustains the cylinder will be as
— 7-\     or   as   —. or
                       p, because h is as -r-.
                    as r
 4          4                              a
     "
     Hence it appears that the attractive power which sustains
the water arises only from those parts of the glass which are
contiguous to the surface of the elevated water ; or, more
truly, from the parts of a narrow surface of the glass, whose
lower edge touches the surface of the water, and whose
height is the small given distance to which the attractive
power, with which glass attracts water, reaches ; and there
fore the attractive powers of the glass planes and small glass
pipe will be as 2 B and p. But the powers are a3 the weights
sustained           by them, that             is,   2B.   p   ::   HBD.        —¦:     whence
HD       will   be equal to -r-          ;     and, when           D   is   equal to     —,    H
will     be equal to h.
     " This power varies in one and the same pipe, or becomes
different when exercised on different fluids.    For one and
the same small glass pipe will sustain different weights of
different fluids, as appears from this table.
                           ...
                                                           Heights
                          Fluids.                                    Densities.     Weights.
                                                          in Inches.
     Oil of Vitriol                                           1-1           17245      18969
     Water p. 6. Sal Gem p.               -                   1-73          10921      18893
     Water p. 6. Sal Gem p.         *$    -                   1-72          10642    18304
     Water p. S. Common Salt             p.  £                1-67          10447    17446
     Water p. 6. Salt-petre p.             -                  1-71          10447    17864
                           ...
                                     £
     Spirit of Vitriol   - -              -                   1-63.         11860    19331
     German Spa Water                                         1-75          10111    17694
                     ....
     Common Water cold                                        1-75          10000    17500
     Common Water boiling hot                                 1-64           9781    16040
     Good Blood                                               1-64          10400    17056
                                          .
                       ...
     Serum of good Blood     •                                1-65          10300    16995
     Serum in
                       ...
                  Dropsy
                    a                                         1-65          10171    16782
                     ....
     Urine                                                    1-60          10270    16432
     Saliva                                                   1'54          10100    15554
                     ....
     Milk of    a   Cow                                       1-42          10279    14596
                       ...
     Gall of an Ox                                            1-2           10335    12402
                      ....
     Small Beer                                               1-44          10111    14559
     Cyder                                                    1-3           101      13144
                       ...
                                                                              1
                                                                              1
     Vinegar                                                  1-23          10279    12643
     Common Ale                                               1-2           10300    12360
     Red Wine                                                 115            9930
                     ....
                                                                                     11419
     Punch        -                                           112           10055    11261
     Oil Olive                                                114            9130    10408
     Oil of Turpentine                                        0-8  1         9244     7487
     Sal Volatile Oleosum                                     0-84           8774      7370
     Brandy                                                   C-75           9320      6990
     Spirit of Wine rectified                                 »73            8324      6076
     Spirit of Hartshorn                                      1-44           9802    14114
                                                                                          "    In

                      from Dr. Thornton.                     833
    '* In the first column are the names of the fluids ; in the
second,   the heights to which they rose in one and the same
glass pipe ; in the third, the densities of the fluids ; and in
the fourth, the weights sustained by the same pipe.        1 ob
tained the weights By multiplying the heights into the den
sities : for the weights of cylinders are as their magnitudes
and densities taken together, or as their heights and densi
ties taken together   if their bases be equal ; but the bases of
all the cylinders of different fluids sustained by one and the
same pipe are equal, and therefore the weights of such cy
linders are as their heights and densities taken together,
    "   Hence it appears that one and the same glass pipe at*
tracts different fluids with different degrees of force.   It at
tracts spirit of vitriol more strongly than oil of vitriol, oil
of vitriol more strongly than water impregnated with salt,
water impregnated with sal gem and nitre more strongly
than common water cold ; common water cold, more strongly
than the animal fluids and common water made boiling hot;
the animal fluids more strongly than fermented liquors;
fermented liquors more strongly than oils ; and oils more
strongly than ardent spirits.
   " So then, if equal quantities of all the fluids of this
table were mixed together, the same glass pipe would suck
in different parts of this heterogeneous fluid in different pro
portions.     It would suck in more parts of water impreg
nated with salt than of oil or ardent spirits. The parts least
attracted would be driven off, to make way for those which
are most attracted to enter into the pipe ; as in a fluid where
the force of gravity alone takes place, the lighter bodies are
forced to ascend, to make way for the descent of bodies
which are heavier.
   "   Sir Isaac Newton has proved from experiments, that
the particles of light attract ardent spirits and oil more
ttrongly than water ; and by consequence, if we suppose a
small pipe to be formed out of particles whose attracting
powers are the same with those of the particles of light, and
one end of it to be dipped into a heterogeneous fluid com
posed of equal quantities of all the fluids of this table inti
mately mixed together, such a pipe would attract the parts
of oil and ardent spirits more strongly than those of water,
and suck in more parts of the tw*> former than of the latter.
The fluid, therefore, drawn out of the heterogeneous fluid
by this pipe, would be different from the fluid drawn out of
it by a small glass pipe ; for two fluids will be different,
when they either consist of different parts, or of the same
parts mixed in different proportions.
                                                         " Now,

 534              Memoir     on the Wool and Slieep
     " Now,    since pipes of different natures draw off different
fluids from one and the same heterogeneous fluid, it fol
 lows, that the secerning pipes of the glands, according to
 their different natures and dispositions, suck in various
juices from the blood, which is a heterogeneous fluid con
 sisting of a great variety of parts : and, consequently, the
 proposition is true."
     This work, which contains 338 pages, shows how
 much the knowledge of the animal ceconomy was advanced
 in those days, and how great a genius Sir Isaac Newton
 was, and the prevalency of his opinions, now almost passed
 by in oblivion. And in a second letter, for this, I fear, has
 already become too long, which I shall have the honour to
 address to you, I shall endeavour to show that the new che
 mical doctrines, as they are commonly called, were the
 doctrines of Hook, who was contemporary with Sir Isaac
 Newton, and published prior to Mayow by him : and if in
 following up your plan I shall cast out any additional lights
 on so interesting a subject as you proposed, I shall feel
 highly gratified j and have the honour to remain, dear sir,
                          With  all due respect and esteem,
                               Your faithful obedient servant,
                        ,               Robert John Thornton.
 XXXIX.        Memoir on the Wool and Sheep of Cachemire
      and Boulan.      Read in the Agricultural Society of Paris
      in the Sitting of Frimaire 7, Year 9, by Alexander
      le Goux de Flaix, formerly an Officer of Engineers,
      Member of the Asiatic Society at Cakutta, &c*
  Agriculture,          the most necessary        and most useful of
  all arts, can flourish only    under    a good government.         This
  principle has so   often   been   proved,  and   is so  evident, that  it
  is sufficient merely    to mention    it.   It is  an  axiom  of   poli
  tical ceconomy.
      Among the different branches of rural ceconomy, that of
  breeding sheep is, I will venture to say, one of the most
  advantageous : it requires constant attention on the part of
  the proprietors ; it calls for the meditation of agriculturists
  and the solicitude of government.             This branch, so inte
  resting   to commerce,     the  arts, and  manufactures,      began to
  be improved in France since Lormoy, in the year 1750,
  introduced Barbary sheep, and still more since the intro»
    ,     • From the Decade Pbilosopbiqiie, no. 16 and 17, year 1%.
                     2                                           duction

                    of  Cachemire  and Boulen.               S3S
duction of the Spanish breed.          This branch, so useful to
 the progress of all our cloth and woollen manufactures, is
 earned to such a degree of perfection in Cachemire, that
 the wool of that country, known there under the name of
 touss, is the finest and most silky in the universe.       Thi»
fact I can prove by the shawls, the use of which began in
France, and has thence been extended all over Europe since
 our expedition to Egypt.      These superb articles, which ruin
all our manufactures, since they cannot imitate them even
 with the wool of the Merinos, is fabricated in Cachemire
with the touss of that country wool, which is so exceed
 ingly beautiful that it might be taken for silk.
    To publish processes, and the methods employed by the
 people among whom this art is cultivated with success, and
 to propose to government the putting them in practice, is
 placing confidence in its beneficent views. Sensible of this
 truth, I have endeavoured to make known in this memoir
 some processes used in Cachemire in regard to the manner
 of washing and taking care of the sheep, and the methods
 employed to prepare the wool. These methods, which have
 improved the sheep and ameliorated the wool, might be
 adopted and followed in France with advantage : they would
be attended with beneficial results ; at least, I have reason
 to think so, since the climate of these countries is nearly
 the same as that of France, as I shall prove hereafter.
    No country in the world is diversified in a more agreea
 ble manner than Cachemire ; it unites the advantages of all
 climates. The plants which grow between the tropics thrive
 in the plains and on the sides of the hills of that small di
 strict, and those of the most northern regions become na
 turalized on its mountains, the summits of which are co
 vered with snow throughout almost the whole year. In these
 points of view, Cachemire is one of the most agreeable coun
 tries of Indostan, since it is so much favoured by nature.
     A pure and constantly serene sky, brilliant nights, con
 tinual dews, and innumerable springs which water the hills
 and the plains, the town of Sirinagar situated in the middle
 of fertile fields, the terraces of the houses of which form so
 many gardens suspended in the air like those of Seinirainis,
 the celebrated queen of Babylon, as we learn from history,
 —all these give but an imperfect image of the country.
     The mountains which surround this rich and fertile di
 strict produce abundance of aromatic plants, which afford
 excellent pasture for sheep: they are covered almost the
  whole year with wild thyme and sweet marjoram.          It is to
 all these advantages united that Cachemire is in part in
                                                           debted

236             Memoir    on the Wool and Sfieep
debted for the superiority of its wool, and the beauty of its
flocks. Care, and a few processes which we do not follow,
and which I shall explain in this memoir, contribute to
carry both to the utmost degree of perfection.                France,
happy by its situation, by the industry and the means of its
inhabitants, and by the influence of its climate, might ob
tain all these advantages when it chooses : such a country
must be extremely proper for breeding and improving all the
species of sheep, and those brought from every part of the
earth ought to thrive in it.
    The Cachemirian sheep is one of the most beautiful of
its species : its mean length is from thirty-six to forty
inches; its height from twenty to twenty-two,                 and its
weight   from   fifty-five  to   sixty pounds. The      most   distin
guishing   characters    of this  species area  small head  and lively
eyes ; their front is not rough, and they have a long and
wrinkled dewlap. The lambs are brought forth with crispy
wool on the flanks, but they have only a few flocks on the
back and along the spine. Each sheep produces, one with
another, about three sers of thirty ounces each of clean
wool ; for it is never sold till it has once been washed on the
animal before it is shorn, and then by processes which I
shall here describe.
    The body of these animals being well proportioned in all
its parts, renders their gait light, easy, and secure. The care
taken in breeding them, and the methods pursued, give them
great vigour, a lively and even bold look, sound health,
and a beautiful white covering of very long fine silky and
undulating wool.         They resemble those beautiful flocks
which Virgil and his successful imitator Delille describe in
their immortal poems ; those flocks so celebrated in anti
quity, the shepherds of which were kings.                One of the
valuable and essential qualities of the Cachemirian sheep          is,
that they stand heat as well as cold. Cachemire, being situ
ated between the thirty-second and thirty-third             degree of
north latitude, and inclosed          by   a double chain of lofty
mountains, experiences the heat of the torrid zone, and the
cold of France: but the air of this country           is   constantly
dry and the successive transition, sometimes very sudden,
    ;
 from extreme heat to cold,     is   by no means prejudicial to the
sheep.    This effect, in my opinion, arises from the hard
ness of the cranium of these animals, their conformation,
and the practice of not shutting them up.            The same effect
I  have remarked   in    general in India, not only in the natives,
who always go bare-headed, and who make continual use of
ablution with cold water, but also         in all the animals. The
                                                               sheep

                                                        '
                   of Cachemire  and Bout an.                 237
sheep of Cachemire are not subject to giddiness and glan
ders, fatal diseases, which occasion so much havoc and de
struction among sheep.       1 have made the same observation
in regard to the sheep of the Arcadian pastures, and those
in the pasturage of Etna and Parnassus ; which being kept
with   great  care,  admit of being compared with those         of
Cachemire.
    Whether owing to barbarism, or a mechanical attachment
to the old habits of pasturage, which is the only occupation
of the Tartars, since war cannot be one, the breeding of
sheep is the branch of rural ceconomy most attended to in
Turkey. The method of penning, and that of migration,
have preserved there the fineness of the wool, and prevented
deterioration of the animals.      This is a certain truth, and
which will be admitted by every traveller of observation.
    In Cachemire, as in Greece and in Spain, the sheep are
moved from place to place, that they may be kept all the
year through in an equal temperature.            They pass the
winter in pens in the plains, and the summer on the
mountains.       They even enjoy this advantage in Cache
mire, that the migrations arc. shorter and less laborious,
because this small province is surrounded by high moun
tains.
    But the Cachemirian shepherds, to secure their sheep
from the effects of the great heat of the summer season,
make them traverse a lake or a river several times a day.
They never crowd them together in cots or confined places,
as it nature had not given them a fleecy clothing capable
of securing their bodies from the intemperance ot the sea
sons. It is a fact well known that damp air is prejudicial to
them; but it is proved also, that the acrid and almost
mephitic air which prevails in close buildings, occasions
among these animals putrid and inflammatory diseases,
from which those of Cachemire are free.          The humidity,
say   the  natives  of that country,  which   always prevails in
obscure sheep-cots, however large they may be, is far more
hurtful to these animals than the humidity of the atmo
sphere.     Every one is able to appreciate the justness of this
reasoning : the mephitism of cots would occasion to the
strongest of these animals not only severe diseases, but
would injure their wool.
    Long experience has proved for centuries to the Cache
mirian shepherds, what reason had demonstrated to the illus
 trious Daubenton, that the immediate action of the open air,
daily bathing, and several times a day during the great heats,
 occasional showers, and the dews, as well as continual mi
                                                         gration,

.   S38          Memoir on the Wool and Sheep
   gration, instead of being hurtful, contribute to the health of
   the flocks, as well as to whiten and soften the wool.           By
   these means also the wool acquires a silky texture, and at
   the same time it is whitened by the rays of the sun. Our
   shepherds, slaves to their prejudices, and deaf to the coun
   sels of the wise Daubenton, are always apprehensive of ex
   treme cold : what ought to render-them easy in this respect
   is, that the flocks in Cachemire are inclosed in pens during
   the whole winter, and on mounts Athos and Olympus
   amidst frost and snow.      I cannot help mentioning the latter
  instance j it is sufficient to convince even the most incredu
   lous.
      What I have said proves that the Cachemirians follow at
  all seasons that salutary method of penning, which allows
  the climate to have its full influence, so beneficial to the
  health of the flocks, and necessary to improve the fleeces,
  and maintain the beauty of the race.
      But one particular care of the shepherds of this province,
  as well as of Thibet and Boutan, who possess the same
  breed of sheep, but which we do not observe, is to prefer a
  lamb of the second birth for a breeding ram.           It has been
  proved   to them   by constant experience,   that the rams   of this
 birth are almost always stronger and more beautiful than
 those of the first, and even of any other. By following this
  practice they have been able to maintain and improve their
 breed. It is to this care, and that of not crossing the breed,
 apractice followed      b^y
                           the Arabs, who never mix the breeds
 of their beautiful horses which they call the noble breeds,
 that thev are indebted for the extraordinary fine white silky-
 wool, which generally, from the nape of the neck to the
 flanks,   is from twenty to twenty-two inches in length but  :
it   may readily be conceived that the wools on the flanks and
 lower parts of the body cannot be equally long. Every
where the wool, however, of these animals            is at least five
or six inches, and equal in length.         This wool, in fineness
 and whiteness, exceeds that of the Merinos, and that even
of the sheep of the Algerine states, and of Angouri,              a
town      inTurkey in Asia, which we call Angola. This as
sertion    is provedby    what I  have already observed in regard
to shawls.
     Salt, the use of which has for some time past been in
troduced among us, mixed with        a   root called commonly in
Europe     Indian   saffron, and  which   in botany is  denoted by
the name of curcuma, terra merita, given at different periods,
more or less distant, according to the season, the quality of
the pastures, and that of the herbs they produce, — less fre-:
                                                             quently

                                                                             '
                      of   Cachemire              and Bout an.                        23 9
qucntly in winter and during very cold weather, but oftencr
in the time of the great heats, ana when the air is damp,— is
the only remedy employed by the Cachcmirian shepherds to
prevent diseases among their flocks.          A milky plant, called
in Indostan ardepal, of an exceedingly bitter taste, is used
by them also with great success : they make the sheep eat
of if when they observe any of them in a languishing state.
    This plant, so useful, would succeed, in my opinion,
in our climates : it thrives without care on the mountains as
well as in the plains; in dry soils as well as in moist.            Its
utility renders it exceedingly valuable: we ought to endea
vour to naturalise            it,
                              because          salutary not only to
                                                   it
          but  to all other  animals.                   is is
                                               given in particular to
                                                    It
 sheep
 sheep    and  to  goats,  as    specific against the itch
                                    a                         the cla-       ;
 velee, swellings and contagious diseases which sheep contract
 during very damp weather, when the herbs shoot up, and the
 fresh pastures contain small insects, which occasion among
 these animals the rot         in the latter case they are made to
                               ;
 eat it  ; for the itch they are rubbed with the juice.
     The stem of the ardepal rises to the height of from fifteen
 to eighteen inches       ;   it woody, and of the size of the little
                                    is
 finger: its bark     is  very smooth, reddish, and velvety: the
 leaves stand opposite to each other, are sixteen or eighteen
 lines in length, shaped like         heart, velvety, nervous, tender
                                              a
 and thick.       They always abound with         milky juice, which
                                                                a
is    exceedingly bitter they are faintly indented, about as
                               ;
 large as     piece of thirty sous, and of
              a                                   dark green colour.
                                                                a
 The roots are ramose, yellowish, tender, and contain juice                       a
  similar to that of the leaves, but thinner.        The flower is                     di
  vided into five petals, of the length of two or three lines,
  anda   line in breadth; they are rounded at the extremity, of
    jonquil colour, inclosed             monophyllous calyx, which
a                                             in
                                              a
  remains and envelops the pod or oblong fruit, which sue-
  cecds the flower the flower has three stamina, and an acute
                      :
  ovarium unprovided with            style. The fruit
                                          a               divided into  is
  three cells, separated        bystrong membrane, each containing
                                     a
  three or five spherical seeds        each of these seeds
                                              :                inclosed      is
  in hard capsule, of reddish blown colour, the kernel of
     a                         a
  whiah      very bitter, yellowish, and rather soft.
             is
      In general Cachemire          very proper for the breeding of
                                         is
  sheep   ; but   I must observe, that the shepherds never give
  them green herbs, but thyme and marjoram.              In pens they
   get nothing to eat but dry straw mixed with         small quantity
                                                                    a
  of barley or millet, named jouari and during their migra
                                                     ;
  tions, or in the fields, they are allowed to feed only on dry
   herbs, or the leaves of the bushes.
                                                                                  What

 640                    Memoir on   the Wool and Sheep
    What         I
              have here said is contrary to our ideas and
 methods in regard to the breeding of sheep.       Meadows are
 no where found in Indostan. The Hindoo is convinced that
 an ear of rice or wheat, or of any other gramineous plant, is
preferable to ten and even to a hundred trusses of hay.
   The fleeces of the Cachemirian sheep are in general in
good condition, because the flocks are never conducted
among brush-wood, which would tear the wool on the back
of the animal. It is well known that the only wool suscep
tible of acquiring delicate and brilliant colours by the pro
cess of dyeing, is white wool : for this reason the Cachemi-
rians separate all those lambs which are black or brinded. It
is known also that the longest is the fittest for being spun,
and for making strong cloth.
   The general practice in Cachemire is to shear the sheep
only once in the year. By this method the wool obtained is
longer and of a better quality.      But the shepherds of this
country  know,   that if the fleece were left on the animal for
a long time, and particularly oh ewes, they could neither
suckle their young nor be rendered productive. I shall not
enter into any explanation of these motives, as the utility of
both practices has been proved by experience : I shall
therefore only observe, that the shearing takes place fifteen
or twenty days after the return of the great heats, in order
that the sheep may perspire j which renders the wool more
pliant.
   An       essential   and peculiar quality of the Cachemirian
wool      is,   that ithas no hard coarse part. This    valuable
                                                         is   a
quality,        since hard wool    found even among that of the
                                    is
Spanish sheep.
   At the time of shearing, the Cachemirian shepherds,
who have long studied every thing that can contribute to
preserve the beauty of their breeds, to improve the wool,
and prevent diseases among their flocks, bathe the sheep
twice  a  day, and even oftener when the heat increases and
renders     necessary. The periods for performing this opera
            it
tion are two hours after sun-rise, and the afternoon, when
the rays of the sun begin to be weakened in consequence of
their obliquity. They have observed that bathing when the
sun     vertical crisps the wool, renders
       is                                        harder, checks
                                                 it
               and           the        to the danger of what
perspiration,       exposes      sheep                            is
called strokes of the sun: this        severe accident, and oc
                                         is
                                          a
casions fevers which are called giddiness.
   Cleanliness     the first cause of health this principle
                     is                          :                is
true in every respect;       not only preserves from diseases,
                              it
but maintains the beauty of form.        Every European travel
                                                            ler,

                   of   Cachemire and Bout an.                 94l
 lerj who has been in the habit of observing, knows that the
Hindus    are indebted for the beauty Of their hair; which it
exceedingly long, to the freqtieflt use of bathing and ablu
 tions ; and they are also less subject to colds than the Eu
 ropeans, who never bathe their heads;
    The Cachemirian wool is divided into two kinds : that of
the voung sheep, which is called arowfl; and that of the old,
distinguished by the name of duaume.            The fleeces Of the
Iambs, till the age of two years, or eighteen months, arc
Sold separately ; they are employed only for making a kind
Of fur to winter caps.
    The fi.stof these kinds is a little shorter than the other;
It is produced by sheep from the ay;e of three years, when
the shearing of the /omm begins, to that of seven or eight.
    The duaume is longer, a little less greasy, weaker, and
less silky ; it is employed for making the Cachemirian cloths,
which have been imitated by the English. We also have
attempted to make them in our manufactories ; and they
arc known in Europe by the improper name of Casimirf
whereas the real name ought to be Cacltembr.
    J have already remarked,' that the wool, before it is shorn,
is washed on the animals. These two kinds of wool are each
sub-divided into two sorts, that of the back and that of the
belly : but before they are employed in commence, or spun,
they are subjected to certain operations, by which they are
improved. These operations, so useful and beneficial, are not
practised in Europe. They are first exposed to the vapour of
a slight ley, composed of nearly fifty pints of water, abofli
ten or twelve pounds of the ashes of the leaves of the banana
tree, or of a clayey barren and white earth, which is easily
reduced to powder, and which by the Indians is called ole.
  They are then washed with the farina Of a small cylindric
bean, called moungue,         known in botany by the name of
mango.      The     shawls  in  India are washed with the same
farina.
    The first of these processes consists in exposing the wool
for seven or eight hours to the vapour of the ley, that it may
be penetrated by it.      The wool is heaped up, without being
 pressed down, upon an earthen ware dish ; it is washed in
running water, and dried in the open air.
    When this operation is terminated, the wool is subjected
 to another : it is left to soak in an earthen vessel, and each
flock is rubbed several times in the same manner as linen        is*
 by  our washerwomen.     It        then repeatedly rinsed in pure
 water, or ina                 it is
                   river, to free    from the farina with which it
 has been washed.       These processes render the wool more
    Vol. XVIII. No. 71.                Q                    pliabla

242                    Memoir on the Wool and Sheep
pliable and silky, and bleach it without breaking or tear
ing it: and the farina of the moungne has the property also,
by its mucilage, of softening                   it,
                                          and giving         peculiar
                                                                  it   a
whiteness without crisping              which any other substance
                                           it
                                            ;
would do.
  It  has been asserted, on the authority of some travellers,
that shawls are made from the hair of kind of goat: in my
                                                       a
opinion      might be said, with equal propriety, that they are
            it
made of the hair of the stag.           am astonished that writers
                                            I
should amuse thttmselves at the expense of the public                         by
spreading such falsehoods.
   Another idea, no less distant from truth, is, that these
shawls are made from the wool of lambs lorn from the
bellies of their mother.        This account, which cannot be
read without sentiments of pain,               not only absurd but
                                                      is
atrocious;       itcontrary to every thing we know of the mild
                      is
and humane manners of the Hindus. Resides, this assertion
cannot be true, as          itwell known that the wool of those
                                 is
lambs  is very  short;  and   such   practice would be destructive
                                           a
to the sheep, in consequence of the danger attending the
operation.
   The superfine shawls are not made of sheep's wool, but of
the wool of the camel.         This wool, with which we ate not
acquainted, and which cannot be cultivated              France with
                                                            in
out considerable expense and great difficulty,           exceedingly
                                                                is
valuable ;   it    more beautiful than Vigonia wool, and as
                  is
dear as     it  scarce
                 is         :    found only on the forehead and
                                it    is
around the ears of that large animal.
   The finest shawls, those made of camels' wool, besides
being exceedingly dear*, are very scarce, and                difficult
                                                                  it     is
to procure them;            even often necessary to order them at
                           it   is
Sinnagar, the capital of Caeheinire, the only place where
they are manufactured.
   The common fine shawls manufactured                     in
                                                      Caehemire are
the white, and cost two or three pounds sterling they have           :
flowered corners, and        border of greater or less breadth ac
                                 a
cording   to   the  price. They are three ells and           half in     a
length,  and   half  an ell     breadth.
                                     in     The  common    ones  only
are dyed, unless ordered to be so.             The latter cost from
twenty-five to thirty shillings.
   Shawls, the weft of which             camels' wool, are distin
                                               is
guished  by   the  name  of  encacheti;    the white, with the weft
of sheep's wool, are called seanvri; and the rest are known
by the appellation of passari.          have thought
                                                1                 it
                                                           necessary
                 * They    cost ten guineas at the manufactory,
                                                                              to

                  of  Caeliemire  and Boutan.
 to distinguish them here by the names given to them in the
 country'.   This nomenclature, if a matter of indifference to
 the consumer, will not be so to commerce.
    As this wool is not sold till it has been scoured, washed,
 and subjected to the process of washing with the farina of
 the moungve, it gives no more loss : some of the shepherds
have assured me that the loss ought not to be estimated at
more than a fourth of the weight; a new advantage result
ing from this kind of sheep.
   'The wool of the belly is never employed for shawls; it is
used for a particular kind of stuff manufactured in the en
virons of Sirinagar* Tins stuff is consumed in the country
and neighbo                      The wool is sold at from fifteen
to twenty-five shillings per sert which weighs twenty ounces
French weight. The whole is sold in the country, to be ma
nufactured into shawls, sashes, or borders for turbans; the
two latter are only half an ell in breadth.
    The Cachemirian pieces of cloth arc more than sixty
French ells in length, and a little more than half an ell in
breadth. The price at the manufactories amounts only to
the moderate sum of fifteen pence.        These cloths, far su
perior either to those of England or France, are worth only
a fourth of what they arc sold at in the latter countries. Be
sides ercat disproportion in the price, there is also a great
difference in the quality of the casimirs : those of Cacheinire
last much longer.     This superiority can be ascribed only to
the superiority of the wool.
    To propose to the French government to send for this
breed, either to rear them in France, or to improve the best
of our breeds by crossing them with rams and sheep of the
Cachemirian breed, is to propose a project worthy of it. We
already experience the advantages resulting from the breeds
obtained in Spain : the wool produced by crossing the Me*
rinos by our indigenous breeds has been much improved, and
great advantage might certainly be expected from crossing
with the finest sheep in the world. This new attempt would
bring our wool to a state of perfection.     I have even reason
to trunk, from the observations and experiments of Dau-
benton, to be found in his work entitled Instruction pour k-s
Bergers, that the wool of France might be improved to
such a degree that it would become superior to that of Ca-
chemire.     " Experience has proved to me," nays he, that
it would be easy to preserve and improve in France ihc
breeds of fine-woolled sheep, and that the rearing of these
sheep would be of great advantage to our farmers, and a
great resource to our manufactories."          There can be no
                                                          doubt

  344     On the Wool and Sheep   of Caehem ire and Bout an .
  doubt that, by crossing the Cacbemirian breed of sheep with
  our own sheep or the Merinos, it would be possible to obtain
  in France superfine wool as beautiful as that employed in
  manufacturing the magnificent shawls, the fineness, silky
  texture, and whiteness of which we so much admire. %
  may even assert without prejudging too much, that this
  wool would become superior to that of Cachemire ; it would
  carry our cloths, known to be the most beautiful in the
  world, to the highest degree of perfection.
     It perhaps will be objected, that admitting the possibility
  of introducing and naturalising in France this breed of fine-
  woolled sheep, the most beautiful on the earth, there would
  be some disadvantage in regard to the weight of the fleece;
  since it is well known that Merinos, brought from Spain
  and bred in France, commonly produce twelve pounds of
  wool, while the Cachemirian breed produce only seven or
 eight. But the difference in the fineness might perhaps
 make up for this deficiency ; because the same quantity of
 ¦tuff can be made with a fourth or a third less of Vigonia
 wool, than with the finest Spanish wool, in consequence of
 the superior fineness of the former.       It would be a matter
 of indifference, therefore,  to have  a few   pounds less of pro
 duce, provided      the same  quantity  of  cloth were obtained.
 Besides, the Cachemirian wool being much finer, and abso
 lutely free from any coarse part, a great benefit would arise
 from rearing this breed, which require less nourishment,
 and are fed with straw ; which is never the case with the
 French sheep or the Merinos.
    The loss which the merchants sustain by purchasing un-
 scoured wool, would not exist were the Cachemirian sheep
 naturalised in France.     As Daubenton was probably mis
 taken, when he said, in his Instruction aux Bergers, that go
vernment sent for Cachemirian sheep at the same time that
it procured sheep from Roussillon, Spain, and England, I
am the more inclined to believe that my conjecture "respect
ing this error is well founded ; because, having had an op
portunity, during my residence in India from 1769, to 1788
when I returned to Europe, of seeing the correspondence of
the old East India company, whose privilege ceased in 1 770,
and, since that period, the correspondence of the royal ad
ministration, I found nothing which had any relation to
this circumstance.
    To bring sheep from Cachemire is certainly not impos
sible ; but though such an attempt does not present the same
risk as the expedition of Jason, it would, however, be very
difficult, especially to one unacquainted with the Indian lan
                                                         guages,

             Telescope,   &fc. Jirst known in England.        t45
          and   not familiarised with the manners of the Indians,
fuages,
  must therefore repeat, that Daubenton, and those who,
without further examination, have repeated his assertion,
that in the
             year 1776 Cachemirian sheep were sent for to
be introduced into France, were evidently mistaken.
                   To   Mr. Tilloch.— (Letter II.)
XL.   Curious Extracts from old English Books, with
   Remarks which prove, that the Telescope, tsfc. were
   known in England much earlier than in any other
   Country.
 I-At     the conclusion of my last letter*, I intimated that            I
had found a passage in an old book, which threatens to de
prive lord Napier of the honour of being the first among the
moderns who re-invented the method by which Archi
medes made the solar beams destructive to the Roman fleet ;
and which also justifies a belief, that the revival of the
telescope, generally acknowledged to have been known to, if
not invented by, Roger Bacon, took place earlier than is
commonly supposed.
    9. The passage I allude to is to be found in the Panto-
metria of Leonard Dirges, esq. first printed at London ia
1571 1, and again by his son Thomas Digges, esq. in 1591.
In the preface to this second edition, written by the latter,
wc reaa what follows :
   "   3. Archimedes also (as some suppose) with a glasse
framed by reuolution of a section parabolical), fired the
Roman nauic in the sea, comming to the siege of Syracusa.
But to leave these celcstiall causes, and things doone of an-
tiquitie long agoe, my father, by his continuall painfull prac
tises, assisted with demonstrations mathematical), was able,
and sundrie times hath, by proportional! glasses, duely si
tuate in conuenicnt angles, not onely discouered things farre
off, read letters, numbered peeces of money with the verye
ooyne and superscription thereof, cast by some of his freends
of purpose, upon downes in open fields, but also seuen
   • It                      before the reader enter on tbii second letter,
        will not be anrns if,
he peruse the nrst, on the " Memoir by lord N.ipier," ice inserted in
no. lxix of this Magazine.
 t    See Robins'i Mathematical  Tracw, vol. it. p. »S*i compared with
the art. Telnnpe  in  Dr. Htmon't Dictionary, and with the title page of
the Panicmelria.
                                  Q3                               mylei

246        Proofs from old English Books, that ike
mylcs off declared what hath beene doone at that instant in
priuate places.    Hee hath also sundrie times, by the sunne
beanies, fired powder and dischargde ordinance halfe a mile
and more distant c; which things I am the boulder to report,
for that there are yet liuing diuerse, of these his dooings
oculati testes*, and many other matters farre more strange
and rare, which I omit as "impertinent to this place."
    4. On looking farther into this interesting old treatise, I
find, in the 21st chapter of " the fyrst booke," the fol
lowing curious paragraph :
   "    Thus much I thought good to open concerning the ef
fects of a plaine glassef, very pleasant to practise, yea most
exactly seruing for the description of a plaine champion
country.      But marueillous are the conclusions that may be
performed by glasses concaue and conuex of circulaire and
parabolicall formes, using for multiplication of beames
sometime the aide of glasses transparent, which by fraction
should unite or dissipate the images or figures presented by
the reflection of other.    By these kinde of glasses or rather
frames of them, placed in due angles, yee may not onely set
out the proportion of an whole region, yea represent before
your eye the liuely image of euery towne, uillage, &c. and
that in as little or great space or place as ye will prescribe,
but also augment and dilate any parcell thereof, so that
whereas at the first appearance,     an whole towne shall pre
 sent itselfe so small and compact together that yee shall not
•discerne anye difference of streates, yee may bv application
of glasses indue proportion, cause any peculiare house or
 roume thereof dilate and shew itself in as ample forme as
 the whole towne first appeared, so that vee shall discerne any
 trifle, or reade any letter lying there open, especially if the
 sunne beames may come unto                it,
                                      as plainely as    you were
                                                               if
corporaiiy present, although       be distante
                                      it       from  you as farre
 as eye «in discrie    But of these conclusions
                       :                              minde not
                                                             I
 here more to intrcate, hauing at large in       uolume  a  itself   by
 opened die miraculous effects of perspcctiue-glassesj.      And
 that not onely in matters of discouciie,but also              by
                                                       the sunne
  • Eve-witnesscs.
  +  Py glasses the   author here means any plane reflecting surfaces       for
                                                         these word? — " The
                                                                          ;
he begins this jist   chapter of his first book wi   h
best kindc of gleust   for this purpose     of sleilt finely polished, neither
                                           is
conuex nor toucan     but flat, &c."
J     Most probably this work    is  lost among the " several mathematical
treatises ready for the |<rc5S. which,  by reav.n of law-suits and oilier avo
cations, he was hindered from publishing." Sec Dr. Huttou's Dictionary,
articje Digges.
                                                                     beames

          Telescope,       ($c. were   Jirst       known in     England.            2   J
beanies     to fire powder, or any other combustible mater,
 which Archimedes is recorded to have doone at S)racusa in
 Sicilie, when the Roman nauie approached that townc.
 Some hauc fondiv surmised he did it with a portion of a
 section parabolicail artiiiciallye made to reflect and unite the
 sunne beanies a great distance off, and for the construction
  of this glasse, take great peines with high curiositic to
 write large and many intricate- demonstrations, but it is a
 mecre fanlasic and utterly impossible, with any one glasse
whatsocuer it be to (ire any thing, onely one thousand pace
 off, no thougli it were a 10O foote ouer, marry true it            the       is,
   arabola for his small distance, most perfectly doth unite
   eaines, and most uehemently bunieth of all other reflect
 ing glasses.     But how        application of mo glasses to ex
                                 by
 tend this unitic or concourse of beaines in his full force, yea
 to augment and multiplie the same, that the larder                            it       is
 caried the more violently         shall pearsc and burne.
                                  it                               Hoc
opus   hie  labor est,  wherein   God    sparing   life  and  the time
with opportunitic scruing,            minde to iinparte with my
                                       I
countricmen some such secrets, as hath                suppose in this
                                                            I
our age becne reucalecl to very few, no lesse seruing for tha
securitic and defence of our naturall countrey than surely to
be maruailed at of strangers."
    5. No writer on optics whom           have had an opportunity
                                               I
of consulting, gives us any thing satisfactory on these cu
rious passages.      In one of our latest and best scientific dic
               part of our first quotation
                                                                                         ¦
tionaries,  a                                  3.)    (§given without
                                                                is
any comment, and the able writer of the article Telescope in
another late excellent General Dictionary, contents himself
with mentioning the name of Digges in respectful terms.
Dr. S. does not mention the Diggcses at all and Mr. K.           ;
in bis remarks on that learned gentleman's system of op
tics, docs little more than cite         small part of our second
                                               a
quotation (§1).        have not looked into any foreign authors
                       1
on this occasion; thinking very unlikely that should find
                                      it                             I
in them any satisfactory account of two old English books,
which have been so sparingly noticed                       by
                                                   our own writers.
Modes tv as well as prudence, recommends caution                  case   in   a
where men of deserved celebrity have been so ycry circum
spect.     YetI   shall offer   few remarks with that freedom
                                 a
which becomes the cause of truth, trusting to your intcllw
gent readers for       candid constriction of what
                       a                                     shall adI
vance.
   6. And first would ask, with all possible respect, whether,
                I
(to say nothing of theory) the able men      have alluded to,
                                                           I
might  not be partly discouraged from hazarding  any remarks
                            O              4               on

  348          Proofs from old English Jiooks,          that
  op the passages before us, by contemplating the very great
                                                               t he
                                                                               * f
                                                                                 "
                                                                                   /
  distance at which Digges asserts that his tather fired gunr
  powder by means of the solar ravs ? a distance which ex
  ceeds that which, in our former letter, we ventured, per
  haps hastily, to think rather poet leal, in a greater ratio than
  that of 2640 (the feet in half a mile) to 2002, or than that
  of 13 to 10. The gentlemen could not be ignorant that
  Archimedes was said to have produced his famous conila-
     ration at a great distance ; and this, after all, may have
  f  een the true state of the fact. But it is probable that
  neither of them had seen Napier's proposal to excite flame
   "    at any appointed distance.'' Surely an expression which,
  as observed in my last, needs qualification, cannot be ad
   duced in support of another which almost exceeds belief.
  But, to avoid all controversy in a case which admits of
   some latitude of opinion, I would respectfully ask better
  judges of the subject, Whether the light* of the sun, re-
j fleeted from terrestrial objects, be not always accompanied
   with a real, though often insensible heat, which ceetcrispa-
   rilmst is' ever proportional to the density of such light?
   Whether windows partially reflecting the rays of the sun
   when near the horizon, may not be seen at a great distance ;
   and whether the spectator does not receive from them a real,
   though generally an immeasurably small, portion of heat?
   Whether the spn-beams, partially reflected from the smooth
   surface of the sea, do not serisilily increase the heat on
   •hore ; and whether this effect be not universally experi-:
       * So much convinced was the celebrated Gravesande of the intimate
   connection between tire and light, that he defines a lucid body in these
   words—" Carpus <voeo)pr luc-dum, quod lumen emit/it, id fit, ignem fer li
   nens rectos ogitat.   A body is called lucid which emits bgbt, that is,
   gives fire a motion in right lines." Pbys* Elrm. math-em. Exptx. eonfirpi.
   printed 1711, vol. n. p. 11.    See also the able Dr. Hutton's Dictionary,
   article Light.  For the benefit of those who ar? always hunting after
    new books, which are very often old hooks improved for the '.vorsr, it may
    not be amis* to add that, about seventeen veai a ago, I heard professor
   John Rpbison, of Edinburgh, certainly one of the best judges in Europe,
   recommend this work of Gravesande (the third edition, if I rightlv re
    member) as, upon the whole, the belt book of the kind that had then,
    been published j and I do not know that any work of equal merit and,
    extent has since appeared.      Whether the professor said any thine in
    praise of the English translation I do not recollect, but 1 raticr think
    not. The truth is, that the excellent preliminary discourse, the only part
    of the English edition I have read, (s but indifferently translated.    A
    work on natural philosophy has long been expected frorn Mr. Robison.
    himself; but science has not hitherto received this benefit, owin^, I be
                  poor state of health.
    lieve, to his                          We mav judge of the manner in
    which it would have been executed by the 4rticles he has given to the
    Encyclopedia Britannica.
                                                                       enced,

*\
                 Telescope, &fc. were    first known in England.           949
     enccd, or at least regarded as real, by the inhabitants of hot
     countries, even at considerable distances from the water!
     Whether if such heat, instead of being indefinitely diffused,
     could be united in one spot, a very great effect might not be
     expected at a very great distance ? Whether Buft'on has as
     certained the limit, the ne plus ultra, at which combustion
     can be produced by the reflected solar rays ; and whether,
     on the contrary, he does not confidently affirm, that, with
     a better apparatus, he could have produced the same effect
     at a proportionably greater distance, as from the nature of
     the case itself he evidently could ? Whether, if Mauper-
     tuis's idea of an amphitheatre lined with mirrors were re
      alized ; or      if,
                     as you once suggested,   body of 2000 or 3000
                                                      a
     men, each furnished with speculum, were trained to direct
                                         a
      the sun's image to      particular spot, bodies might not be
                                     a
      inflamed at distances of which at present we have no con
      ception    ?As the Diggeses, both fattier and son, appear to
      have enjoyed, at one part at least of their lives, the nival lit
      able privilege of making any costly experiments they thought
      proper at the public expense*, whether they may not have
      possessed an apparatus as much larger than Buffon's, as the
     effect was greater?
        7. Whatever answers your intelligent readers may think
     due to these queries, not        man of them will doubt that
                                             a
     Disrges, the father, actually fired gun-powder, at some great
     distance,     means of the reflected rays of the sun
                       by                                    and      ;       if
     so, lord Napier's first proposal must have been anticipated
      by  many years.
         8. I  thought the two foregoing passages frqm the Pan-
      tometria, especially the second, sufficiently wonderful    but,     ;
      when had written thus far,
            I                          learned ana worthy friend of
                                             a
      yours and mine put into my hand the Stratioticos of
      Thomas Diggesf, printed in London in 1590; at the 359th,
            of which     find the following astonishing, but, as
                             I                                                I
      Eage
        ope to prove, not unaccountable passage
         9. My father, " joyning continual experience" (in the
                                                          :
      use of artillery)          "
                            for many ycares with gcoinctricall de
      monstrations, sought, and at last found, and did frame an
      instrument, with certaine scales of randons, to perfourme
      all that Tartalea by his tables promised     as also:   reflec by
      tion of glasses to fire pouder and discharge ordinance many
        •
            See Pnnlometria, p. 175.
       t    In   list of Thomas Digger's works, at the beginning of the Str.iti«-
                 a
      ticos, we find that he was the sole author of that piece, and that the Pan-
      tomriria (second edition.) was begun       by
                                                 his father, ami augmented and
      finished    byhimself,
                                                                          miles

  250         Proofs from old English Books, that the
  miles distant. And such was, his felicitie and happie suc-
  cesse, not only in these conclusions, but also in yc Optikes
  and Catoptikes, that he was able by perspective glasses ducly
  scituate upon conuenient angles, in such sort to discouer
  euery particularitie of the country round about, wheresoeuer
 the sunne beames might pearse: as si thence Archimedes
  (Bakon of Oxford onely excepted) I have not read of any
 in action* euer able by means natural to performs the like.
 Which partly grew by the aid he had by one old written
 book of the same Bakon's experiments, that by strange ad
 venture, or rather destinie, came to his hands, though chiefly
 bv conioyningcontinuall laborious practise with his mathe
 matical! studies. The which upon this occasion I thought
 not amisse to rehearse, as wel for the knowne veritie of the
 matter (diuers being yet aliue that can of their ownc sight
 and knowledge beare faithful witnesse, these conclusions
 being for pleasure commonly by him with his friends prac
 tised) as also to animate such mathematicians as enjoy that
 quiet and rest my froward constellations haue hitherto de-
 nyed me, to iinploy their studies and trauels for inuention of
 these rare seruiceable secrets. But such is my hard destinie,
 that as God's pleasure was to take my father from mc, in my
young and tender yeares, and even at that vcrie time when I
began to grow capable of those secretes, and himsclfe (hauing
bene longdebarrcd hisownc inheritance and natiue soile being
 restored) ment then
                           immediately to returne to his wonted
 places  of exercise,  there   to have deliuercd me experimentally
those the fruits of his long trauels and practises, so sithence
 his death, having fostered by study and conference those the-
orical sparks mathematical), from infancie by him impressed,
after I grew to some maturitic of vcares and judgement, fit
to enter into trial and practise of these conclusions, by con
tinual! law-brables (being torments as repugnant to my na
ture as the infernall Furies to celestiall Muses) I haue for
many yeares bene so vexed and tumioiled, and from those
delectable studies violently haled, that of all those rare con
clusions and secrets I haue scarcely hitherto had any time
of repose or quiet to wade effectually in any one, sauc onciv
that of great artilerie," &c. — But
                                             " so soone as by God's
aid I shall untwine my selfe out of this miserable labyrinth,
wherein so long I haue bene snared, ray first endeuours
shal be entirely to finish the treatise of that new science of
maneging this new furious engine and rare inuention of
    • The
          original being in the old English block later, the word artion,
like the other emphatic wolds, is id the Roman character.       Does the
author mean actually, or iu LiUile?
                                                                  great

        Telescope,    &c.   were   first known in England.                  851
great artillerie, in such perfection as hitherto hath not bene
in any language imparted with any nation of Europe. — Vi-
rescit vulnere virtus*."
   10. I have transcribed the greater part of this curious pas-
page, because the
                     " miserable labyrinth" of law-brables"  "
in which the poor author was " snared," may very ratio
nally account for the amazing assertion, that his father, "by
reflection of glasses, fired poudcr and discharged ordinance
many miles distant."          It is evident that when Digges wrote
the above passage his mind was ill at ease.            It is probable
his work was carelessly printed, without being revised by
himself, and that for miles we should read poles, or some
other denomination inferior to miles ; for it is not to be
credited that Digger, supposing him in his senses, would
have inserted in his Stratioticos in 1 590, that his father,
" by reflection of glasses, fired pouder and discharged ordi-
nancemany miles distant ;" and in the Pantometria in 1591,
that his lather produced the same effect only " halfe a mile and
more distant ;" appealing in both instances to eye-witnesses,
and to all appearance meaning precisely the same fact.               It
may further be observed, that in our second quotation he
has not asserted that either he or his father had so             aug
                                                                      "
mented and multiplied the unitic of beames,                  that the
 farder it is carried the more violently it shall pearsc and
bunie." No : he only mentions the extreme difficulty of
such an attempt, and rather obscurely talks of imparting
 something on that head on a future occasion.
     1 1 . This letter would exceed all reasonable bounds, and
would consume more time than I can bestow upon                   were it,
I  to trouble you with every observation which these passages
would fairly bear.        Many such will so readily occur to your
 intelligent   readers,   that  it would be superfluous,      not offi
                                                                 if
 cious, in me to suggest them.        I  must therefore content my
 self with settling the dates of other pretensions to discoveries
 which seem to have been previously known to the Digge*es,
 and thus hastening, not however without all the circum
 spection my time will allow, to the general conclusion
 which I     have in view.      And here should be sorry to have
                                            I
it  supposed    that  the  proofs shall adduce in support of those
                                I
 who appear to have just claims of priority, imply any censure
 on other claimants.         Far from every liberal inquirer be the
 baseness of vilifying departed men of talents, whom genius, or
 even what   is   cailedgood fortune, may have conducted, clear
 pf all plagiarism, to discoveries previously made               by
                                                              others          !
                     • Virtue Heuristics   in   adveriity.
                                                                      12.    To

  252          Proofs from old English Books, that the
      12. To proceed then : Our second quotation (§ 4.) seems
  clearly to imply the knowledge and use of what we call the
  Camera obscura, which has been always believed to have been
  first described by John Baptista Porta*.              Whether this our
  second quotation was written by Digges the father or son,
 we have no absolutely certain means of determining ; for
 the Pantometria, from whence it is taken, was begun by the
 father, as we have seen, and " augmented and finished"
 by the son, who, it is possible, might have interpolated this
 passage into that part of the work, which most probably
 was written by the father, as it stands in the 28th page of
 the book, which, exclusive of preface, &c, contains 195
 small folio pages.         But is it reasonable to suppose that a
 man who, as our first quotation shows, was acquainted with
                                                                  •'
 the more difficult combinations of glasses, and                     assisted
•with demonstrations mathematicall," was ignorant of the
 comparatively simple structure of the Camera obscura?                      If
 then Digges the -father, who published the Pantometria in
  1571, and died about the year 1574 f, really knew, as in all
 probability he did, the structure and use of that instrument,
 he must have preceded Porta in that knowledge by more
 than twenty years. But if Digges the father did not possess
 that knowledge, it seems undeniable that his son did ; and
 1591, the date of the Pantometria, will still carry an Eng
lishman's pretension about three years beyond that of the
 respectable     Italian, whose work did not appear till about
 1594.
      13,  I shall next briefly discuss a more important claim,
that of the invention or revival (shall I call it ?) of the Te
lescope. Descartes, whose authority in this case, as in many
others, is justly regarded, tells us, that " about thirty years
 ago   J  lived one James JMctius, a native of Alcmaer in
Holland, a man wholly ignorant of the liberal arts, though
his father and brother || cultivated the mathematics.                   TfTis
    * In his Mngia Natural:.', lib. xv:i. oap.  6. according  ro Dr. Hupon's
Diet, art. Camera Obscura; and in lib. iv.      cap. i. according to Wolfe,
and Stpne, who copies much from him.           They agree that that work of
Baptista Porta was first printed about the year 1594'.       Sec Elem. Matb.
 Univ- Oflic. § 80, and D.'opt. § 3*7; and Mathcm. Diet, articles Ca
mera Ohifura and Telescope.
    f   Hutton's Diet. art. Digger.
    J  That is, about the year 1607, or thirty years before 16 37, when he
first publithcd his Diopirice.   See Hutron's Diet. art. Cartes.   The above
extract, which on several accounts is worthy of transcribing, is taken from
Klzcvir's edition of that work, 1644.. czp. i. § 1. p. 71.
    ;| Descartes here means Adrian Mctius, professor of the mathematics
at Franckenaer,    who supported his brother's claim to the discovery.
              4                                                       man's

             Telescope,   &c.   were  first known     in. England.         253
  man's favourite amusement was to make burning glasses
  and specula ; and in winter he formed some even of ice, a
  material which is known by experience to be not unfit for
  this purpose. As on account of this pursuit lie had at hand
  many glasses of various forms, by a lucky hit he applied
  two of them to his eye, one of which was somewhat thicker
  at the middle than at the edges ; the other, on the contrary,
  being much more prominent at the edges than in the mid
  dle; and thus having happily fitted them to the extremities
  of a tube, the telescope of which we speak thence derived
  its existence." Saverien, not attending, as he ought, to these
  words of his illustrious countryman, who passed much of
  his time in Holland, tells us that " Kepler is the inventor
  of the telescope," and that           " it certainly was not brought
  into use till the year 1609 *." But Kepler himself advances
  no pretensions to the discovery.                In the dedication to his
  Dioptrice, which is dated January 1C11, he says that " some
  were then contending about the honour of the first in
  vention of the instrument, and others boasting of having
  brought it to perfection; but that Galileo ha3 secured a
 more splendid triumph, in having first shown its use in de
  tecting the arcana of astronomy,
                                              —a triumph, by tile way,
  to which, with all due respect to the celebrated " Tuscan
  artist," our great countryman Harriot has equally strong
  pretensions f. Kepler then modestly prefers his claim to
  the first discovery of the rationale of " the dioptrical reed"
  (arundo dioptrica), as he calls the telescope, but by no means
  to the discovery of the instrument itself.                   Borelli  J  and
 other writers favour the pretensions of Janscn of Middle-
 burgh, and Sirturus those of Lippcrsheim, another Dutch
  man.
       14. But the earliest claim, next to that of the Digereses,
  and the still prior one I shall presently nolice, is that of
 John Baptista Porta, whose pretensions to the first discovery
  of the Camera obscura we have just considered. This mo
 dern Italian Maecenas, in his Magia Naturalis, published,
 as we have seen, about 1594, has these words,                   "  Siutrum-
                 &c. If you know how rightly to combine both'
S\erecte,
     ese" (a concave glass and a convex one)              " you will clearly
     • Saverien, Diction.  Univ. de Math,  et de Physique, articles Lunette and
  Telescope.
     t   Sic the account which Dr. Zach, astronomer to the duke of Saxc-
 Gotha,     published in the Aitron. Ephcm. of the Royal Acad, of Sciences
 at Berlin for 17*8, of Harriot's papers found by him in 1784 at Pttwoith
 in Sussex, the seat of lord Egremont. See also Dr. Huttoa's Diet., or
 the Encycl. Brian, art. Harriot.
     J  In his Ira's De veto Tclescofiorum Inventor e, ed. 1655, cap. it.
                                                                            see

 254            Proofs from old English Books, that the
 see   both remote and near objects enlarged. In this respect                           I
  have given no small assistance to many of my friends," &c.
  From this passage, Wolfius concludes that        Primus diibio "
  procul, &c. Beyond all doubt Porta was the first who.con-
. structed a telescope."    But Wolfius adds that     he did not      "
  understand his own invention, for which he acknowledges
  he was indebted to chance,"                    &c*
                                           It is however highly
  probable that the candid Wolfius, for such, from -many in
  stances, he appears to be, and the honest, ingenious, Scot
  tish gardener, Stone, who here translates his words, would
  not have spoken so very positively in favour of Porta's pre*
  tensions, had they been apprised that Digges, the father, not
  only constructed, but understood the telescope in the year
   1571 » when the Pantometria was first printed.
      15. But the knowledge of the telescope in this country,
  at least of its theory, may be distinctly traced to a still ear
  lier date.   In proof of this assertion, which to some will
  appear a bold one, I beg leave to refer you and your readers
  to Recorde's             "
                     Path-way to Knowledge," a book on the
  elements of geometry, printed in the year 1551, and dedi
  cated to king Edward VI. of England.        Though this book
 is,I   believe, not remarkably scarce,       may venture to say
                                                       I
 that  its contents are but little known.       For, after all the
 disputes   about the  discovery of the Telescope, can     be sup          it
 posed   that the following  paragraph   would have  been  so long
 withheld from public view,          the book itself had not lain
                                            if
 neglected, in the repositories of the curious, ever since the
 days of Jansen, Kepler, and Galileo?       In the repositories of
the curious    Shall speak out melancholy fact — For little
                 !             I             a                       ?
more than the price of waste paper delivered my venerable
                                                  I
Recorde, once the companion and instructor of an amiable
prince     from the merciless hands of
           f,                               snuff-man, who, a
regardless of his gemowes, likeammes, nooks, and cantells                              J,
had stripped off his outer garments, and, prohpudor! con
demned him to the meanest purposes of       vulgar trade, thus
                                                            a
forcing snuff into the indignant embrace of geometry                            !
   16. Recorde, in his preface, has this remarkable passage:
" But to retourne againe to Archimedes, he did also         art                   by
perspectiue   (whiche       part of geometric) deuise suche
                                   is   a
glasses within the towne of Syracusa that did burnc their
enemies shippes     greate waie from the towne, whiche was
                               a
a meruailous, politike thynge. And         should repeate the -
                                                       if
                                                       I
    • See Woljii Elemcnla Matbtseos XJnhente,
                                                       Dioft.   §   317;   and Stone's
Mathemat.  Diet. art. Telescope.
        Edward       VI.
jt      Parallels,    parallelograms,   sectors, and segments.
                                                                                varictie

          Telescope, &c.   were   first known in England.         255
variette   of 9uch straunge inuentions, as Archimedes and
others haue wrought by geometrie, 1 should not onely ex-
cede the order of a preface, but I should also speake of
suche things as can not well bee understocde in talke with
out some knowledge in the principles of geometrie. But
this will I promise, that if I maie perceiue my paines to be
thankfully taken, I will not onely write of suche pleasauntc
inuentions, declaryng what they were, but also will teach
how a great noniber of them were wroughtc, that thev maie
be practised in this tyme also.           Whereby shall be plainly
perceiued    that many thynges       secme   impossible to bee done,
which by arte maie verie well bee wrought.                 And when
they   bee   wrought,   and  the   reason   thereof not  understoodc,
then saie thevulgare people, that those thyriges are doun by
negromancie.        And hereof came it that frier Bacon was
accompted so greatc a negromancier, whiche neuer used
that art (by any coniecture that I can finde), but was in
              and other mathematical! sciences 90 experte that
  e could doe by them suche
feometrie                            thynjres as appear wonderfull
in the sight of moste people.             Great talke there is of a
glasse that he made in Oxfbrdc, in whiche men might see
thinges that weare doen in other places, and that was nidged
                                                     I
to bee doen by power of euill spirites. But knowe the rea
son of it to bee good and natural!, and to be wrought by geo
metrie {silk perspective is a parte of it), and to stande as well
with reason, as to see your face in a common glasse. But
this conclusion, and other diuers of like sort, are more meete
for princes, for sundry causes, then for other men, and ought
not to be taught commonly."
    17. On this passage I shall only observe, at present, that
we have no right to doubt that Kecbrde actually " knew the
reason" of the reputed magic of Roger Bacon's glasses, of
which there was " great talke" in his time. For, besides
his reputation as a physician, he had a mathematical cha
racter at stake ; having for some time publicly lectured on
geometry at Oxford *. Nor can it be said that Recorde
might affect a knowledge of optical glasses which he did
not possess, and cloak his ignorance under the strange opi
nion (as it appears to us) that such knowledge was only
"  meete for princes."         For he dedicates his book to Ed
ward VI. in a long address, dated 28th January 1551 ; and
k said to have been physician to that excellent young prince,
as well as to his miserably bigoted and tyrannical successor
Mary f, either of whom might have required him to com-
         * See Dr. Hutton's Diet. art. Rccarde.      f  Id. Ibid.
                                                             raunicate

2o6           Letter   of Spalldnzani       to C. Senebier
municate the knowledge he pretended to have of Bacon's
inventions.    A man ignorant of what he professed would
never have unnecessarily exposed himself to the danger of
being held up by the rival court physicians as an empiric
in " perspective" (optics), and consequently, as they would
not have failed to infer, in medicine.             Thus we have great
reason to believe that Dr. Rccorde possessed considerable
know ledge, at least of the theory, of that combination of
                                i
optical glasses now called refracting or dioptrical telescope.
                           £To   be continued.]
XLI.    Letter o/"Spallanzani          to  C. Senebier in regard       to
                              Respiration**
 X ou know that for a long time the respiration of man and
of animals has been the principal object of my physical re
searches.    I made you acquainted with the motives which
induced me to treat on this subject, and the plan which I
formed of subjecting to examination the different classes of
animals, beginning with those where animality ends, and
ascending by degrees to that which comprehends the mam
malia.    Before my labour, which is pretty far advanced, be
completed, I am desirous of communicating to you some
parts of it ; but this is not so much to gratify your wishes
as to know your opinion of it.             I shall, therefore, take the
opportunity of    this   letter   to communicate      to you in parti
cular a phenomenon,          the   enunciation   of  which    will, per
haps, excite in you some surprise.
   As 1 intend to treat on respiration, it is evident that I
Ought to introduce living animals which breathe. 1 shall,
however, pursue a contrary course, and shall first give my
observations, on dead animals, or animals which have been*
deprived  of respiration.
   Animals which breathe have, indeed,            been the first object'
of my researches ; but in proportion as           1 observed the che--
mical changes produced by them in air during their life, I
endeavoured     also to discover those produced after their
death.
   No  means certainly can be more efficacious for advan
cing  the progress of the physical sciences than to open a new
route, or to continue that which has been trod by other phi
losophers, setting out from the point where they stopped.
          • From ths                                    in. ir.
                       Journal dt Physique, Fructidor,
                                                                    Ine

                         in regard to Respiration,                           257
The    practice which I flatter myself I have acquired in expe
 rimental matters has proved to me that, instead of pursuing
a direct course, as the greater number do, it is often of ad
vantage to follow a cross road where no one has before passed,
or even which no one has ever thought of entering. This is
what I have chosen to do in my researches.
    In recounting the results of my experiments, I shall not
       you the specific names of the objects of them         con-
  five
                                                                    ;I
   nc myself here to generalities alone.       shall only observe,
                                                     I
that employed the eudiometer of that celebrated chemist
      I
 Giobert to ascertain the chemical alterations of the air                    I
                                                                             :
found      the most convenient) and at the same time the best
           it
fitted to my chcmico-physiological researches.
 I    inclosed in a given measure of common air different
kinds of worms.         was
                         It     this class of animals that
                                   by                          be       I
gan my researches.         thus
                              I  learned that those which had
organs for respiration, as well as those destitute of them,
absorbed all the oxygen of the air, or at least as much as
was absorbed         the phosphorus of Kunckel.
                    by                                   observed
                                                                I
that in the latter animals the organ of the skin supplied the
place of lungs.     This novelty induced me to search for an
other.     Iwas desirous to know whether this organ ceases to
absorb oxygen when the worms cease to live or whether     ;                      it
then still retains this property. To resolve this problem                    I
confined some of these animals, when dead, in close vessels,
placing them in the same circumstances under which they
were during life     :the oxygen was in the same manner en
tirely absorbed.
    Though these animals began to give manifest signs of
putrefaction, or putrid fermentation, as appeared              the      by
disgusting odour they emitted,           their change of colour,
                                             by
and the softening of their parts,       put them again into con
                                             1
fined air.     The fermentation always went on increasing,
and the absorbing force was not checked. Having shut up
these substances     several times      in   close   vessels,   I   ascertain
ed,   by
       analysing the inclosed air, that the destruction of the
oxygen gas was completely and constantly effected            these    by
putrefied matters,  from    the commencement      of their  putre*
faction until they had attained to the utmost term of                        it  ;
that    to say, until
         is                was finished, or until they were re
                              it
duced to    state of almost complete decomposition.
                a
  It    well known how much power heat and water acting
         is
together have to macerate flesh      this may be easily perceiv
                                        :
ed    by
       ebullition.     tried the latter method also to discover
                         I
whether this process would take from them or lessen their
faculty of absorbing oxygen but     ;    was preserved injits full
                                             H it
   Vol. XVIII. No. 71-                                     vigour,

258          Letter  of Spallanzani  to C. Senelier
vigour, though the worms were reduced by long ebullition
 to such a state that their parts scarcely adhered.        I sub
jected  to experiment   bv  both these  processes different  kinds
of these animals, which compose the order of terrestrial and
 aquatic testacea, and the result was always the same.         Th«
singularity of this phaenomenon made me seriously think
that there might be something equivocal in this absorption
 of oxygen, and I almost conceived the possibility of it.
    In each of these analyses, not only the natural proportion
 of the oxygen gas to the azotic gas was changed, but there
was always a certain quantity of carbonic acid gas.         I then
 thought that this gas might be the result of oxygen
 combined with the carbon of the animal.         But in this case
 it was evident that the animals would not appropriate to
themselves the base of the oxygen gas which they dimi
nished.     My reasoning acquiredstrength by an observation
which taught me that when, instead of shutting up the ani
mals in common air, I inclosed them in pure oxygen gas,
the quantity of that gas destroyed was more considerable ;
and the case was the same with that of the carbonic acid gas
produced.
    This observation, however, did not appear to me decisive;
because it might have happened that the great quantity of
carbonic acid gas arose from a greater affluence of carbonic
acid extracted from the animals by a greater quantity of
oxygen, which might excite in the animal fibre a strong mo
tion, since it is proved that this substance has a very stimu
lating force.
    The increase of the carbonic acid gas produced by ani
mals placed in pure oxygen gas is not, indeed, constant,
since they several times consumed
                                       -f^ of this gas, while no
more than T-55 or yg^ of carbonic acid gas was observed in
this atmosphere.      In like manner, by making the experi
ment with common air, one may see that when its oxygen
is entirely destroyed, it is not uncommon to discover in this
residuum only two or three hundredths of carbonic acid
gas.
    To clear up these apparent contradictions, I had recourse
to an expedient which ought to be decisive: I placed dead
animals in a medium entirely deprived of oxygen gas, be
cause either no carbonic acid gas would be produced in that
gas, which would have furnished me with an unanswerable
proof that the production of this gas depended on the oxy
gen of the atmosphere ; or, what is the same thing, that it
was the effect of the combination of this principle with the
           4                                              carbon

                      in regard to Respiration.               i£§
   carbon exhaled from the animal, or I should have obtained
   this carbonic acid ga« nearly in the same manner at when
   the animals are shut up in common air ; and then it would
   be proved that it did not depend on the oxygen of the air,
   and consequently that it was exhaled immediately from the
   bodies of these animals in an aeriform state, or in that of
   carbonic acid combined with caloric and become gaseous.
      I therefore shut up different kinds of worms just kill
  ed, in pure azotic gas extracted from the fibrous part, well
  washed from the fresh blood by means of nitric acid, ac
  cording to the process of the celebrated chemist Berthol-
  let; but in these experiments carbonic acid gas was mani
  fested.    I confirmed this experiment by another, in which
  I inclosed the animals in pure hydrogen gas ; and more than
  once I had a quantity of carbonic acid gas produced in these
  inephitic gases, greater than when these animals were con
  fined in common air.       I was therefore forced to conclude,
 that the carbonic acid gas produced in these two cases was
 no way dependent on the oxygen of the atmosphere; and,
 consequently, that the oxygen gas destroyed by the presence
 of these dead animals had its base absorbed by them.
     J remarked that several animals of this class could live
 some hours in these mephitic gases. In consequence of this
 observation I inclosed some of them, provided with organs
 proper for respiration, in hydrogen and azotic gas 5 during
 the same time I shut up other individuals of the same spe
 cies in common air.       The result was, that in these two
 cases I obtained nearly the same quantity of carbonic acid
gas.     In the3c animals, therefore, there was an absorption
of oxygen, and the appearance of carbonic acid gas was ei
 ther a production of carbonic acid gas, or of the carbonic
acid, the base of which escaped out of these animals.
     But it may, perhaps, be asked, Are worms the only ani
mals which continue after death, or in their state of decom
position, to absorb the oxygen of the atmosphere ? This
             appeared to me of to much importance that I en-
Juestion
   eavoured to solve it by experiments on other classes of ani
mals superior to that of woims.       I employed insects which
always retain the same form, as well as those which pass
through the three states of larva, chrysalis, and winged
beings.      I made my experiments under all these circum
stances. But after 1 had put to death these insects, and fol
lowed their decomposition to the end, I always obtained *
complete absorption of oxygen when I left for some time
the putrefied matters shut up in common air : the absorp
tion occasioned by the dead insects w as, how ever, much
                               R 9                       slower

260            Let let- of Spallanzani lo C. Senelier
slower than that produced by the living insects, which wa3
effected with singular rapidity.
    You will he astonished when I tell you that a larva,
weighing only a few grains, appropriates to itself as much
oxygen in the same time as an amphibious animal a thou
sand times as voluminous ; and that this considerable          ab
sorption   is certainly repeated   in an enormous   manner  in  the
prodigious     number    of aerian passages disseminated through
out the bodies of these living beings.
    I extended these experiments to dead fresh-water and
marine fish inclosed in common air. Their size permitted
me to make these experiments also on their interior parts
after they were separated, such as the intestines, stomach,
liver, heart, and ovaria ; but all these parts absorbed the
oxygen of the air completely, like insects and worms.
    One capital point of my reasearches was to discover the
               of atmospheric oxygen absorbed by dead and by
J)roportion
  iving animals.       Water is the natural habitation of fishes ;
but that which stagnates in a vessel is soon spoiled, and be
comes fatal to these animals, though covered with common
air ; consequently, fish imprisoned in this manner suffer in
such a situation, which is disagreeable to them : they come
to breathe at the surface, and perish in a very short time. I
have seen several die sooner in water of this kind than when
exposed in the open air without any water.
    From these observations useful hints may be deduced in
regard to the chemical changes of the air by which water is
covered.      I should, however, have been altogether incor
rect had I adhered to this method only : I therefore added
to it a better, by placing the vessels in which I kept these
fishes in a stream of running water, by which means the
water in the vessels could be continually renewed.         By this
method I was able to obtain with more precision the pro
portions indicated.
    I observed in amphibious animals after death the same
phenomena as those exhibited by worms, insects, and
fishes 4 but living amphibia gave me other results.         I  had
observed that several of them survived for some days the
destruction of their lungs; which furnished me with an op
portunity of submitting them in that state to my experi
ments, .and to remark the precise absorption of the oxvgen
made by the lungs and by the organ of the skin.             I was
thus enabled to form a comparison "between the oxygen ab
sorbed by these mutilated animals and by those which had
not been treated in the same manner.
    You will see in my book how smali is the absorption of
                                                          oxygen

                     in regard to Respiration.                C6l
oxygen by the lungs in comparison of that absorbed by the
skin, though it has been generally believed that in this class
of animals, as in others which are higher, the destruction
of the oxygen gas of the atmosphere ought to be referred
entirely to this organ. Some kinds of amphibia also which
I deprived of their lungs lived much longer in the open air
than those which had lungs when I inclosed them in me*
phitic air, where they were entirely deprived of oxygen
gas.    I discovered also that some of them die much sooner
when their skin is slightly covered with a spirit of wine
varnish. The cause of this difference is evident : by means
of this varnish these animals then not only cease to absorb
oxygen, but they can no longer free themselves from the
carbonic acid which ought to be exhaled, and its expulsion
is necessary to their existence ; while in the mephitic gases
in which I placed these animals I always found carbonic
acid in its gaseous state.
    I was, however, able to ascertain the exact absorption of
oxygen by the cutaneous organ, without depriving amphibia
of their lungs : I confined "their bodies in receivers in such
a manner that they had no communication with exterior
air, while at the same time they had their heads out in the
air, in which they could freely breathe.       I thus clearly as
certained, that the absorption made by these animals when
dead is only a continuation of that which they made during
life.
    Hitherto I have spoken only of the four classes of cold
blooded animals; it therefore remains that I should say
something of birds and the mammalia : as the latter have a
greater relation to man, they ought to be more interesting to
our curiosity.     Birds also absorbed oxygen in the experi
ments to which I subjected them, both when living and
dead ; and even their parts, such as the brain, muscles, in
terior parts, and also the skin.     I shut them up alive, like
the amphibia, in vessels in such a manner that tbev breath
ed in the open air without these vessels; which furnished
me with the means of ascertaining the quantity of the ab
sorption by the cutaneous organ.
   The mammalia, who are in the order of quadrupeds, gave
me results similar to those exhibited by birds; hut I obtain
ed others of great importance from that singular species of
quadrupeds     which arc rendered lethargic by the air, or
which, as is commonly said, sleep during the winter.
    I observed that the phenomena of respiration change in
these animals according to the different degrees of the tem
perature of the atmosphere, and that similar phenomena are
                              K  3                      remarked

    26s           Letter of Spallanzani  to C. Senelier
     remarked in the circulation, in consequence of the great
     affinity between these two functions. Being desirous to ex
     amine them thoroughly, I kept in my house for five years
     the five species of these animals found in Italy. By making
     researches in regard to their respiration I had still another
     object in view, which was to study the habits of this class
     of animals, and every thing that might be interesting to
     their history, because too little known, or not sufficiently
   vex plained.    Having, therefore, near me this great number
     of animals, and having observed them during different sea
     sons of the year, and seen them in their natural retreats, I
     was able to accomplish my plans as I wished.
        As the event must be curious, you will remember my
     marmot, which was so lethargic during the severe winter of
     1793; 1 then kept it for four hours in carbonic acid gas, the
     thermometer marking — 1 2°. It continued to live in this gas,
     which is the most destructive of all : a rat, at least, and a
     bird which I placed in it perished in an instant. It appears,
     then, that its respiration was suspended during that time.
     I submitted to the same experiment bats which were in the
     game lethargic state, and the result was the same.        I then
     continued my experiments. I preferred these flying animals
     to the marmot, apprehending that this animal might fall a
     sacrifice to these trials and perish, because I had only two,
     on which I had other experiments to make, whereas I had
     in my possession a great number of bats.
         I was therefore desirous to know, whether when respira
     tion was suspended in these animals a production of carbo
     nic acid would be effected by the organ of the skin. I then
     substituted azotic for carbonic acid gas, in order that the
     result might not be doubtful. I placed in this gas two bats,
     the thermometer being at — 9°.       At the end of two hours I
     took them out, and having gradually introduced them into a
     warmer medium, they gave evident signs of life: but              I
     found no carbonic acid gas in the azotic gas ; which made
     me conclude that this temperature was too low for the ex
     halation of it. I continued these experiments at a tempera
     ture successively higher to — 3, by which means TffT of car
     bonic acid gas were produced, though the lethargy of these
     animals was still strong.
         In this state of things I repeated the experiment under
     the same circumstances, only I removed the bats into an
     other vessel full of common air; but I thep found not only
     the production of 5£ hundredths of carbonic acid gas, but
     also the destruction of 5 hundredths of oxygen gas. Though
   . these two small quadrupeds     were in respirable atr, their pro
                                                                found
*4

                                                                      8 33
                      in regard   to Respiration.
                                                       it. They
found lethargy prevented them from profiting by
did not absolutely respire; that rising and falling   occasioned
                                                 remarked; the
in their flanks during respiration was not
                                        It is therefore   evident,
case was the same in the open air.
                                                      the  conse
that this partial consumption of oxvgcn gas      was
                                                       cutaneous
quence of the absorption of this substance     by the
organ.
  It  thence results, that this chemical power of
                                                             absorbing
the oxvgen of the atmosphere belongs to these cold-blooded
                                                         the
animals when dead, and that when living they exhibit
                                                  bodies are
same power, which is continued even when their
in a state of decomposition.
    In a word, this total suspension of respiration experienced
                                                     cold, becomes
by these animals when exposed to a violent
                                             their death, as I have
unsupportable to them and occasions                                  into
seen in my experiments ; so that this state of lethargy
                                                                         to
which they fall when in their burrows, which happens
                                                             is  always
some small animals, and in general to amphibia,
                                                             as I shall
accompanied with a weak principle of respiration,
show in its place in my work.
                                                                 of the
    Several worms, and among them the greater part
                                                                 writers
 testacea; many insects, among which systematic
                                               familyof   fishes,    have
 place the Crustacea ; besides the immense
                                                         cease     to  live
 their residence always in the water,   and  sometimes
                                        of                    to  them
 in it. Will the faculty they have          appropriating
 selves oxygen when they remain exposed to the
                                                        air, bemain-
                                 it is mixed   therewith    a quantity
 tained in that fluid, because
                                           think       but   to assure
 of oxygen gas? I was inclined         to         so;
 myself of    it, Imade   direct experiments.
     With this view placed different kinds of these
                      I                                         animals
                                                                  caused
  when dead in tubes filled with water, above which
                                                              I
a   given measure of air to ascend.         The oxygen gas of the
                                                                      then
  water communicated with that of the air. It appeared
                                                          the    second,
  clear to me, that   ifthe former were absorbed,
                                                                     tube,
  or at leasta  part of  the air, without the water in the
                                               which might       be    pro
  ought to replace that kind of vacuum
  duced in  it,and re-establish the lost equilibrium.        This     took
  place;  and I  must observe, that every time made the expc-.
                                                    I
  riment on several individuals of these three classes, though
                                                                 covered
  the experiments were very numerous, the air which
  the water was deprived of its oxygen gas.
                                                      which         made.
        must mention also another observation
    I
                                                              I
  When, instead of these aquatic       animals,     placed
                                                    I         at  a  given
                                          animals,   or their    parts,
  depth under the water terrestrial
                                                                         I
                                                             of the air
   obtained the same destruction of the oxygen gas
                      This proves    that  the property   which       these
   placed above it.
                                   R   4                          animals

264              Letter     of Spallanzani          to C. Senebier
animals have of absorbing oxygen in the air, is retained by
them in the water, though not destined to live in                     and     it,
though   it  be fatal to them.
    Hitherto  I   have spoken of the organ of the skin, and
shown    in  the six classes of animals, that        has the power of
                                                          it
appropriating to itself the oxygen of the air, not only when
these animals are alive, but even after they are dead.               wish     I
to call your attention for         moment to this power commu
                                           a
nicated     by nature to other parts, which, though essential to
their ceconomy, present themselves to the air as               they were
                                                                      if
•only accessary.        here
                        I     allude   to the shells  of  the  terrestrial
and aquatic tcstacea          they belong,
                                  :            as you    know,    to the
 family of worms.
     When observed that these dead animals decomposed
            I
common air         by absorbing its oxygen,         imagined that the
                                                         I
 shells might contribute to this operation; because                consi   I
 dered that they were organized according to the demonstra
 tion of Herissant, and that they formed               whole with the
                                                             a
 animal which inhabited them.                 was easy to verify this
                                                    It
 idea  by inclosingthe shellsalone in common air, and the ef
 fect showed that my conjecture wa« well founded. This ab
 sorbing faculty       manifested also in the testacea which in
                       is
 habit the earth, and           those which sojourn
                                  in                                 in
                                                              the waters.
I   was able to estimate the quantities of oxygen absorbed by
 the animals alone and          their shells; only
                                      by               remarked,, that
                                                             I
 the absorption produced                   by
                                    the shells was slower than that
 by   the animals.
     While engaged with these experiments, analogy sugirested
 to me the idea of          body which was indeed of
                             a                                   differenta
 kind, but which seemed worthy of attention. The shells of
 the testacea are formed          two substances, one tcrreo-calca-
                                       by
 reous, the other animal. The shells of the eggs of birds are
 formed of these two substances                 not possible, or rather
                                                :
                                                    Is
                                                    it
 probable,    thought       I,
                           that  this  absorbingprinciple      may reside
 only  in  these coverings          actually found
                                      ?I                in the shells of
                                                               it
  all the eggs which       subjected to experiment
                             1                             and as;    haw     I
a   proof that     a part of  the  oxygen   absorbed         the shells
                                                                    by  of
  testacea passes into the animals which inhabit them,                              it   is
  probable that    itconcurs to the preservation of their life.                      I
  thinkI    have proofs of this sufficiently strong to show the
  passage of the oxygen gas into the interior part of the egg
  in order to vivify      and to concur to the development of the
                            it,
  germ it  contains.
  I    cannot leave these considerations on the shells of testa
  cea and of eggs, without throwing some light on                point in a
  separable  from   their nature.     Their constituent     principles, as
                                                                        we

                        in regard to Respiration.               265
  we have seen, are an organic tissue, and an earth entirely cal
  careous. Is the absorption of the oxygen of the atmosphere,
  however, produced by these two substances, or by one exclu
  sively of the other? I at first thought, that, to obtain a solu
  tion of this problem, it would be necessary to subject both
  to experiment ; and I began with the calcareous matter, be
  cause it could be easier employed for that purpose. As it
  had all the essential relations with carbonate of lime, I was
  enabled to ascertain, with great convenience, whether it pos
  sessed this absorbing power: in that case there was reason
  to conclude, that the carbonate of lime of the shells had
  the same ; but if carbonate of lime did not possess this
   faculty, it was clear that the absorption of the air by th«
  shells did not arise from the calcareous but the animal part,
   and this is what I concluded; because the purest carbonate
   of lime, crystallized anil transparent, calcareous spar, kept a
   lung time immersed in common air, does not occasion in it
   theleast alteration.
       I had a striking confirmation of this by some shells of the
   helix pomatia and the helix nemoralis, which I found by
   chance iu the garden, and which appeared to me to have
   been along time deprived of their inhabitants, as I judged
   from their being wom, and from the alterations they had
   experienced : they had become lighter, and easily broke, or
   •were reduced to powder, between the fingers. The calcareous
'
   matter refound by means of acids and fire, left me no
   doubt in regard to their nature.     I however found that they
    had lost a great deal of their power of absorbing oxygen,
    and that this loss was greatest in the shells which had Seen
    most disorganized. It must therefore be admitted, that the
   organization of the shells of testacea is the cause of this
    absorption, independently of the calcareous matter, or at
    leant that without this organization       the shells could not
    produce that effect. In like manner, if these shells are pre
    served in such a manner that they are not sensibly decom
    posed, even though kept several years, they still retain their
    active property of speedily absorbing oxygen.
        Such, my learned friend, arc the principles of which I
    was desirous to communicate to you some idea.           Though
    the pulmonary respiration of this numerous species of ani
     mals has been the principal object of my experiments for
     several years, I wished only in this letter to give you a hasty
     sketch of them, in order to show how living animals con
     tinually consume oxygen gas in a manner independent of
     the lungs, and how thev destroy it even after their death :
     you have seen it in cold-blooded animals, as well as in
                                                             worms

  266           Letter  of Spallanzani   to C. Senelier
 worms, insects, fishes, amphibia; and in warm-blooded
 animals, I mean birds and mammalia, this destruction in a
 given proportion of common air is complete, at least as far
 as can be shown by Kunckel's phosphorus.
     In speaking of mammalia, I made, on purpose, several ex
 periments on certain parts of their bodies, such as the
 muscles, tendons, bones, brain, fat, blood, and bile. Each of
 these parts destroys the oxygen gas in different proportions,
 except the bile, which appears to be incapable of that
  operation; but the blood is not the only one of the animal
 parts most proper for the destruction of oxygen gas ; though
  I first believed that, in this respect, it was superior to them,
 all, judging from what has been written on the blood in re
 gard to the decomposition of the air.          The blood of cold
 and warm-blooded animals, the venous as well as the ar
 terial, have been subjected to experiment, and I had no va
riation in the results.
     In the beginning of this letter I expressed my doubts on
 the consumption of oxygen gas, occasioned by worms shut
 up in common air : Is it produced by the absorption of its
 base, or rather by its combination with the carbon which is
exhaled from these animals ? I found the carbonic acid in the
vessels contained in these animals, and this carbonic acid
must have some source, since the vessels are full of it ; but
 this doubt was removed by showing the appearance of this
 gas, though the worms were confined in azotic and hydrogen
 gas.     I observed the same thing in the five other classes of
 animals ; so that I think myself authorized to assert, from
 the fact in the experiment with oxygen gas, that this gas
abandons its base to the cutaneous          organ of the animals,
which absorb it as well as the different parts of their
bodies.
    But you will perhaps ask, Whether the azotic gas of the
 atmosphere      suffers any chemical alterations in so great a
multiplicity of experiments? — I shall observe in answer,
 that 1 never made any without considering this gas, and
without finding that, according to the varieties of the ani
mals, it sometimes remained untouched, and at others ex
perienced some diminution; but that it was always very
small in comparison with that of the oxygen gas, though
the latter is scarcely equal to a fourth of the former in
common air.
    I then saw that the chief direction of this animal absorb
ing force is to take away and appropriate to itself oxygen :
it has a direct relation with the temperature of the atmo
sphere, so that it may almost be established as a- general rule,
                                                              that

                     in regard to Respiration.                 267
that the absorption of oxygen is directly as the heat of the
ambient air in which animals reside; and this accords very
well with the observations made on phosphorus.
    In these results, which I have made known to you in so
brief a manner, because I reserve the accompanying proofs
for my work, you see the immense consumption made of
oxygen gas by animals at the expense of the air ; that by
the Kings, or other analogous organs, is no doubt great, but
it is still immensely increased by the absorption occasioned
by the exterior surface of the body ; and it is the same in ani
mals furnished with organs proper for respiration and in
those which are deprived of them : nay more, when ani
mals which respire cease to live, the destruction of oxygen
gas, which no longer takes place by respiration, continues
by the organ of the skin, and even increases in regard to
some animals when putrefaction is far advanced.              If we
take into consideration the incalculable number of animals
which peoples every part of the globe, whether they inhabit
the land or the water, it would appear that the oxygen gas,
which forms the most valuable part of the air, must have
 decreased, and produced the destruction of the organized
kingdom.        We are, however, taught by eudiometric obser
vations, that the mass of the oxygen gas of the atmosphere
 remains unalterably the same.       We must therefore neces
sarily conclude, that nature has means of compensating
exactly for this infinite destruction of oxygen gas, in the
Same manner as it does for maintaining an exact balance be
 tween the death of vegetables and animals and their re-pro
duction.
    But in what manner does nature effect this compensa
tion? You and Ingenhousz have shown it by the publi
 cation of two works which display the originality of their
 authors, and which form a luminous epoch in natural philo
 sophy.      It may be readily seen that I here allude to what
 you  both    have done to show in what manner vegetables ex
 posed to the solar light pour out into the atmosphere a
 prodigious abundance of oxygen gas.          It certainly appears
 proper for repairing that loss of oxygen which may be oc
 casioned by the pulmonary organs ; Dut as this loss is still
 greater, sincewe must add to it that produced at the surface
 of living animals, and by these animals themselves after
 death, I cannot say whether these losses can be compensated
 in whole by plants, especially as the number of animals is
 much greater than that of plants. As this great consump
 tion of oxygen is made by animals during their whole lives,
 and for some time after their death, and as plants do not dif -
              *                                                fuse

.   868                   On the Method      of preparing
     fuse that beneficent influence into the atmosphere bnt
    at   certain determinate seasons, or only when they are
    green ; these reflections induced me almost to think that
    it would be necessary to seek for some other constant source*
    of this vital gas : I am consequently of opinion, that
    as nothing in nature is lost, animals themselves may have
    the means of restoring to the atmosphere that oxygen of
    which they deprived it.
       But this is not the time for entering the field of conjec
    ture in regard to this important subject ; I shall discuss it in
    my work on the respiration of men and of animals. For the
    present 1 shall tell you that I have finished the composition
    of four memoirs, which will form the first part of my re
    searches, and which will soon be published.
    XLII. A full         Description   of   the Method   of preparing Mr.
         George Black^an's             Superfine     Oil-Colour Cakes;
                                                              as
         communicated    to the Society for the Encouragement of
         Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce, and practised by
         him in Presence of a Committee appointed by the Society
         to ascertain the Merit of tl\e Invention *.
     X are of the clearest gum mastic, reduced to fine powder,
    four ounces ; of spirit of turpentine, one pint ; mix them
    together in a bottle, stirring them frequently till the mastic
    is dissolved : if it is wanted in haste, some heat may be ap
    plied ; but the solution is best when made cold.        Let the
    colours to be made use of be the best that can be procured,
    taking care that, by washing, &c, they are brought to the
    greatest degree of fineness possible.    When the colours are
    dry, grind them on a hard close stone (porphyry is the best)
    in spirit of turpentine, adding a small quantity of the mastic
    varnish : let the colours so ground become again dry ; then
    prepare the composition for forming them into cakes in the
    following manner : — Procure some of the purest and whitest
    spermaceti you can obtain ; melt it over a gentle fire, in a
    clean earthen vessel ; when fluid, add to it one-third of its
    weight of pure poppy oil, and stir the whole well together:
    these things being in readiness, place the stone on which
    your colours were ground on a frame or support, and, by
    means of a charcoal fire under           make the stone warm;
                                               it,
         • Fromthe twelfth volume of the Transactions of the Society, who
    voted   the greater silvera'ettc and twenty guineas to Mr. lil.ii.knun for
                                 |
    discovering his process for the use of the public.
                                                                        next

                            Superfine   Oil-Cohmr    Cakes.                S6gi
next grind your colour fine with a muller ; then, adding a
sufficient quantity of the mixture of poppy oil and sperma
ceti, work the whole together with the muller to a proper
consistence ; take, then, a piece of a fit size for the cake
you intend to make, roll it into a ball, put it into a mould,
press  it,and    will be complete.
                  it
   When these cakes are to be used, they must be rubbed
down in poppy or other oil, or        a mixture of spirit of tur
                                               in
pentine and oil, as may best suit the convenience or inten
tion of the artist.
   The abovementioncd oil-colour cakes were tried after they
had been in the possession of Mr. Cosway and of the So
ciety for twelve months, and were found to possess the same
valuable properties they had at first.
   Mr. Cosway says that he made several experiments with
these colours, and      of opinion that the manner in which
                               is is
they are composed              a
                           new and useful discovery and the       ;
great advantage they possess of drying without        skin on the
                                                              a
surface,     isvery essential improvement on the usual mode
                  a
of oil-painting, particularly for small works.
   Mr. Stothard says, one advantage these colours possess
above others          is,
                 they must be very convenient to travellers, as
they are always fit for immediate use, they not drying hard
nor skinning over.
   Mr. Abbot says he has frequently used colours prepared
by  Mr. Blackman, particularly his red lead, which, as far
as he can judge,      better preserved from changing
                             is                               this    by
method of preparing, than          any    by
                                        other  he  has met  with              ;
and as the tint given             by
                            red lead    peculiarly adapted to the
                                                is
highest lights   of flesh,   more  especially on the forehead in
portrait-painting,   he  thinks   Mr.  Blackman's discovery,                  if
it fully answers that purpose,        very advantageous one toN
                                               a
artists;  that he has so good an opinion of Mr. Blackman's
ingenuity and merit on this head, that he has ordered          set        a
of colours prepared in his manner, in bladders, for his own
use.
  N. B.     may here be proper to observe, that Mr. Black-
             It
man's colours in bladders arc prepared with       mixture of  a
spermaceti, and differ from his cakes only in having larger           a
proportion of oil.
                                                              XUU.         De-

                                        [    870        J
XLIII.      Description           of an improved Crane for Wharfs.                       By
    Mr. Robert Hall junior, ofBasford,                               near Nottingham.
Jf orty     guineas were voted to Mr. Hall, by the Society for
 the Encouragement of Arts, &c, for his ingenious inven
 tion of a method to expand a set of bars parallel to the axis
 of a crane, by which means the velocity of the rope in
raising weights may be increased or diminished in propor
 tion to the load to be raised.
    A description and engraving of this crane are given in the
 twelfth volume of the Society's Transactions, from which
 we have drawn up the following account of it:
    The ends of the reel (fig. 1 and 5. Plate IV.) consist each
 of two flat plates or circular pieces, shown separately in
 fig. 2 and 3. These circular plates form the two ends of
the reel, and are held fast on the spindle or axis by pins
         through its ends, of which one may be seen at a,
   g. 2,
 Sassed   and another in the end shown in fig. 5.                The outer
circular plate (fig. 3.) of each end of the reel has a spiral
groove cut in          it,
                        as shown at         and the inner circles have
                                                  b,
each eight mortices cut quite through them, as shown at c,
 fig. 2. (seen partly also in fig.          and 5.)
                                                  1      The outer plates
have also an iron tube,             d,
                                  made fast to them             means of  by             a
flange   or collar,   and  the screws,    ee,  fig.  2.
    When the parts are all joined, (as shown in fig.                    the    1 .)
axis
  f      passes through the tube               and thus the ends are
                                                       d,
connected.        In fixing the cross bars, two of which are
shown detached in fig. 4, the parts g,g slide in the mor
tices c  of the inner circular plates, and the small ends or
tenons         go fairly through the inner and enter the spiral
          k,
          k
grooves of the outer plates.
    The inner and outer circular plates are locked together by
a  catch    (i,
              fig.     1, and 6.) the stationary part of which
                             2,                                                          is
made fast to the inner plate (see fig. 2), while the catch                            it
self,  by  means of       spring,
                             a          kept in notch on the edge
                                             is                  a
of the outer plate. When the diameter of the reel                     to be    is
                                                                 by
enlarged or diminished,                 effected        bringing the reel
                                        it   is
round to the position shown in fig.                 when    6, hook,     a          k,   is
put into    a  hole,    I,which    keeps   the   inner   circular  plate in
that position    till the adjustment        made  is     lifting by
                                                                 the  catch
from the    notch    of the  outer  end-  plate  far  enough    to be  kept
disengaged        bythe hook        before mentioned, being thrust
                                        k,
quite through the hole           the handle m being then turned,
                                  I:
the outer plate only            carried round, and the tenons or
                                   is
small ends of the cross bars (being prevented from being
                                                                   carried

 Improved Bucket for drawing Water out                                   of deep WeUs.             271
carried  round with                it,   by
                               the mortices of the inner plates
through which they pass being stationary) are obliged to
change their distance from the axis               the spiral groove by
sliding over them, while they are able to move nearer or
further from the axis         sliding in the radial mortices of
                                         by
the inner end-plate.
    The handle m being turned till the reel          of the size re         is
quired, the hook         is withdrawn or pushed out, and the
                               k
crane     then ready for work.
          is
         necessary to observe that the tenons
  It     is                                            must be cut,          h,  h
so that the outside of all the bars next the rope shall be at
an equal distance from the centre.         If the tenon of the first
bar that       is
             placed   in  the reel  be  cut   like the tenons                                  k,
                                                                                               h,
 fig. 4, the last of them    must  be  cut  the  same as the tenons
«,«, fig.      and all the other tenons, at the extremities bf
               4;
the several bars, must be at proper distances between these
extremes, as      shown
                     is       the dots   byin the mortices fig. 2.
                                                            P
    The other parts of the crane may be so easily understood
 from an inspection of the engraving, that any further de
scription     unnecessary.
                is
XLIV.   Description                 of
                       an improved Bucket for drawing
  Water out   deep Wells.
                     of    By Mr. George Russel*.
J. he silver medal of the                     Society for the Encouragement                          of
Arts, &c., was voted to                       Mr. Butler for this invention, of
which model
          a       reservedis                    in the society's repository for the
use of the public.    The                      following     Mr. Butler's account
                                                                is
of   the improvement
     "
                                :
        My well at Downe,                       in Kent,          about 360 feet deep,
                                                                  is
and     worked
         is                by
                    two buckets                             and     horse-wheel, each
                                                                    a
bucket holding little less than                           a  barrel and are the same
                                                                        ;
sort of buckets, with the same                              mode of emptying, as at
Dorking, Dover, Hasted, and all                             the deep wells   have metI
with.
     "
     The great weight of iron on those buckets, to make
them sink immediately on descending to the water, being
observed, together with the heavy flat iron chain      which                             by
they are hung to the rope      and which, passing over
                                              ;         flat-                             a
grooved wheel above, brings the face of the buckets properly
to the cistern -catch, suggested the following idea
   " valve of five inches diameter was put into the lower
                                                                                     :
         A
     *   From   the Transactions         of   the Society     for   the Encouragement         of   Arts,
Manufactures,        and Commerce,            vol. xii.
                                                                                               head

S79   Improved Bucket for drawing Water out      of deep Welti.
head   of a common light beer-barrel ; a cross was placed in
the centre of the top of the barrel ; it was then let down-
 into the well by a rope 5 it filled through the valve in the
bottom, and came up very steady and full, with scarce any
 drip : what little drip there was, fell immediately down the
well from the valve in the centre of the bottom without wet
ting the descending rope, such wetting being very preju
dicial to the rope, as in use with the old buckets ; for by
the nature of their bails they ascend swinging, sometimes
strike in passing, and by splashing over the sides are never
full.
    " Two buckets on the new construction    were immediately
made with iron hoops as light as possible ; they have worked
four years without being out of condition ; the hoops,
chains, &c., of these buckets weigh less than the old ones
by two hundred wiight.        The well-rope is little more than
half the size and cost ; a much greater quantity of water i9
raised in an equal time, and the labour of the horse much
relieved."
            Description   of the improved  Machine.
    AA,   (Plate V.) two posts fixed in the curb of the well,
opposite   each  other, and grooved within to receive the enda
of the collar.
    B, two parallel bars which bear down the small iron arms
or cross, R, as the bucket ascends, and open the valve to
discharge the water.
    CC, the collar resting on pegs in the groove ; and, being
lifted by the bucket in ascending, communicates, by a rod
or line down the groove, with the short end of the moveable
bars at D : the short end of these bars, which work on a
pin or fulcrum at E, being so moved, draws forward the
trough, F, with an increased velocity, by means of the lines
          from it over the pulleys GG, and fastened to the
  ong end of the bar at H; by this action the trough runs
fiassing
under the bucket, and is ready to deliver the water into the
cistern I, when the valve Q (which is about five inches di
ameter) is opened by the cross L, striking the bars at B.
    F, the trough, moving on four brass rollers, which, on
the water being delivered, runs back, as the bucket de
scends, with the same velocity as it was drawn forward :
this is done by means of the weight K, hid within the lining
of the model, and connected by a line, passing over a pulley
in the frame above, to the centre of the hinder part of the
trough.
    L, two thin pieces of iron fixed across the top of the
                                                        bucket;

                  IVollaston's Periscnpic Spectacles.        27-*
   bucket : in the centre of these pieces is placed the small
   iron standard M, on which is a collar with four arms N,
  made to move up and down : above the collar is a small
  brass pulley in the mortice O, in the upper part of the
  standard, and a loop to which the well-rope F is made fast :
  to one of the arms of the collar is tied a cord, which passes
  over the brass pulley above, and then down to the lip of the
  valve ; so that the cross L, being pressed against the bars B,
  is forced downwards, the cord drawn up, and the valve
  opened.
  XLV. An     Examination     of Dr. Wollaston's Experiment
      on hit Periscnpic Spectacles.    By Mr. William Jones,
      F.Am. P. S.
                           To   Mr. TilU>ch.
   1 he inferences that Dr. Wollaston has thought it best to
  publish in your last month's magazine, instead of a direct
  reply to my refutation of his new principle of spectacle
  glasses, are of themselves sufficient to convince any impar
  tial person of the validity of the objections advanced by me
  in your preceding number; and, notwithstanding an extra
  ordinary experiment he has therein related, as made only
  by himself, I should not have thought it requisite to trouble
  vour readers again, but for the unfounded imputation he
  has declared against me, that of having, by an experiment,
  deceived myself.      1 trust, sir, I may oe allowed, in con
  tradiction to this, to observe, lhat after more than twenty
  years experience in the practice of my profession, such as
  daily administering to decayed vision, and employment in
 the construction of all kinds of optical instruments, I should
  not be acquainted with the various properties of lenses,
  singly or combined, and especially of so simple and well
  known a form of lens as adopted by him, is an idea that I
  am confident he cannot impress upon the mind of the pub
  lic. I suggested no new experiment, nor was any one
  wanting; the definitive laws I adduced were contained in
 the works of the best writers on optics, and were sufficient
 to evince the want of originality and improvement of his
  meniscus-shaped leps.        In respect to the experiment by
  which he attempts to enforce a proof of an, advantage in his
  spectacles, its value will be known by the following account
 of^repetition of it. I am possessed, of a pair ofbis pcii-
            XVIII.l. No, 71.         S                   scopic
^^^OL.

    274            Wollaston' s Periscopic Spectacle*.
                                    '
    copic glasses mounted in a single steel frame, which cost
     10s. 6d.   The glasses, I must observe, are very different to
    his proposed form, having of each, the inner side, or that
    next to the eye, so little incurvated, that by any person but
    an optician they would be called plano-convexes.             The
    focus is 4 inches, the same as used by Dr. Wollaston in his
    experiment.     In a- similar mounting, with double convex
    glasses of the same diameter and focus, I provided a pair of
    our own manufacture, and as sold by us at 3s. 6d.          These
    two pairs of spectacles were attentively compared together by
    myself and several judicious and impartial persons, in the
    manner as stated by Dr. Wollaston of his; the result was
    as follows : — The convex glasses being applied as close as
    possible to the eyes, the print of a large quarto page was
    viewed through them at a distance for" distinct vision at their
'
    centres : the Utters, at the distance of about 25 lines, appear
    ed quite distinct, or well defined.     Giving the axes of the
    eyes a little obliquity, to discriminate more lines, an indi
    stinctness or confusion of letters commenced, increasing to
    wards the extremity of sight; and from the lateral aber
    ration of the lenses the letters were tinged with the prisma
    tic colours.    Keeping the head fixed in the same position,
    the periscopic glasses were substituted.      The extent of di
    stinct letters without distortion was nearly as great, but the
    coloured letters were evidently nearer to the centre, and
    more numerous than by the other glasses.            By inclining
    the axes of the eyes still more than in the former case, or
    looking extremely asquint through the glasses., a greater
   extent of lines was observed, but blended with colour and
   confusion.      The optic nerves felt a sensible irritation,
   evidently from the squinting position of the eyes, a refrac
   tion of manv superfluous rays, and the consequent increased
   and unusual magnitude of the images on the retina. The
   pain in the eyes mentioned by Dr. Wollaston must have
   arisen only from this circumstance, and not from the one
   he represented it to be        By a trial of the old meniscus I
   before mentioned, which is four inches focus, and corre
   sponds with what he has a patent for, in comparison with-
   fhe abeve plano-convexes, the view of the letters was stilL
   more extended, but illegible and with much colour, and like
  the other, towards the extremity, of no sort of use for the
  purposes of vision.
       Now all this is conformable to the laws of optics, and
  manifests a property different tp that advanced by Dr. Wol
  laston.
                                                              These,

       Memoir on the Culture               of the Anatto Tree, &c.                      275
   These several glasses are also at the public service for in-
  •ection in our shop in Holborn.
epection
   By making the    glasses of the above periscopic spectacles
                 legla)
nearly       pianos,       Dr. Wollaston's principle  destroyed,        *ts
and my opinion       evidently verified that the nearer:      me                    a
niscus approaches to      piano, the more perfect
                                a                      will be, as      it
the spherical surface for the same focus        diminished, and  i6
consequently the aberration. Besides, admitting that there
were any advantage derivable          from    great obliquity of
                                                            a
the axes of the eyes to those of the meniscus -shaped spec
tacle glasses,    would ask, For what reason has man his
                  I
head moveable?        Was     not that he should place his eyes
                                    it
directly before  the  object to be viewed, and not subject him
self to fallacious ideas of them                  by
                                         an awkward and revolu
tionary squinting?
   From what have, advanced
                  I                  doubt not of the public de
                                           I
cision (from      fair comparison of the two kinds of specta
                  a
cles)  in favour of the established double convex spectacle-
glasses for
         :
                       "   Magna eit vciitat,     et pracvalcbit.''
                                         I   am, sir,
                                Your     respectful humble servant,
Uvfljorn, April 10.                                               WlLLIAM JONES.
XLVI.        Memoir        on the Culture         of   the Anatto       Tree, and the
             Preparation        of  Anatto.        By      C
                                                           .     Lebo   n e   *.
X    hat colouring matter known under    the name of anatto
is the produce of     tree brought originally from America,
                            a
and called       by
              botanists Bixa orellana.       approaches near     It
to the family of the lil'uc:   rises   good soil to the height
                                         it            in
of from fifteen    to twenty feet, and its branches form     cir                    a
cumference of from nine to twelve feet radius.           flowers               It
at the age of eighteen months        and its flowers, which are
                                              ;
attached to      common pedicle, are succeeded
                 a
                                                        capsules              by
covered with soft points.     The seeds are surrounded         an                    by
orange -coloured pulp, employed in dyeing, The anatto tree
is  cultivated in French Guyana;           inukiplied bv slips or
                                                   it
                                                   is
       :  the former last longer; the latter produce sooner, and
filants
  ive for seven or eight years.     They are planted in parallel
lines, at distance which varies from twelve to twenty-four
             a
feet, according to the diameter which          supposed the tree
                                                            it   is
will acquire in the ground destined for it, The anatto trees
                                *   From the. \haiteur.
                                          $   H                                     require

276          Memoir on the Culture            of the Anatto Tree,
require continued care: when young, their delicate root*
must be covered with earth ; when green herbs are heaped
up about the bottom of the trees they often cause them to
perish, in consequence of their fermentation. It is custom
ary to beat down the first flowers, that the tree may not be
exhausted    by premature fecundity.     The earth is dug up
around the tree with a hoe, but care is taken not to touch
the roots. When the rains have been abundant, the planters
are satisfied with cutting the grass in the neighbourhood of
the tree with an instrument like a scythe, which spares the
roots, and accelerates the labour.     A sickle might also be
Used,
                           .    .            '.
  The    anatto tree is injured neither by heat nor by rain; it
         low humid places, and is not attacked by caterpil-
 ars, but is very subject to the guy (a name given in Guy
f>refers
ana to a sort of loranthus) : it ought to be carefully freed
from that parasitic plant, which prevents it from bearing
the usual quantity        fruit.
                         o)t
   The anatto      fit for being gathered,
                    is                          the capsules, when
                                                      if
pressed    between    the  fingers,  open  with  an explosion; the
product       collected with the hand, and the negroes who
              is
gatherit deposit the capsules in barrels, which when full con
tain about thirty-five pounds. The product of the trees varies
according to the age, the season, and the soil.          From 15(H)
to 25.00 pounds are collected in eighteen months from 1800
square yards, when the land         goodis at the end of three years
                                                  :
the product      still more considerable; at five years
                   is                                         beginsit
to decrease, and at ten years the quantity collected will
scarcely defray the expense. To separate the grains, the cap
sule    isopened wi^h the thumb and fore finger; the person
then lays hold of the membrane to which the seeds are at
tached. This labour           in general entrusted to the more de
                               is
licate hands   of  women     and  children: the negroes of Africa
employ for this purpose      kind of spatula.
                                    a
   After the produce      collected,
                               is     the next operation       to        is
separate the colouring   matter.     Under    kind  of shed
                                                       a     sup-
           forked sticks fixed in the ground, covered with
             by
 eaves and open on all sides, are placed
Siorted                                         kind of troughs
                                                           a
cut out in the trunks of trees, in which the grains of the
anatto are heaped up. The first trough        called the pound
                                                       is
ing trough,  the second   the  immersing trough, the third $ie
discharging  trough,   and   the fourth the straining trough.
These names indicate the different uses to which they arc
applied.   Each pounding continues half an hour             negro
                                                                :    a
pounds   about  sixty or seventy   pounds  per  day.   This  ope
ration     performed so badly that many of the grains are
             is
                                                              still

               and ike Preparation        of Anatto.             877
Jtill ina state of seeds when thrown away as useless.   An
attempt has been made to introduce machinery for this pur
pose, but it has been abandoned without sufficient reason.
   When the grains are pounded in the first trough they are
carried to the immersing tub, where they are diluted in a
quantity of water sufficient to cover them, and in which
they are left some months until they are pressed. The mat
ter is pressed in sieves, which are placed above the immersing
trough, that the water which holds the colour in solution
may fall into it. The grains are then carried to the dis
charging trough, and covered with leaves : they are left in
that situation till they ferment ; they are then put in succes
sion into the pounding trough, the immersing trough, &c.
till they contain no more colour.         When no more seeds
remain in the immersing trough the colour is diluted with
water, and women make it pass through sieves placed over
the straining trough, in order to separate the remains of the
seeds.    This operation is performed badly, and in a slow
manner. The matter which has passed through remains in
the trough till it has deposited the colour; which is generally
the case at the end of fifteen days, or sooner when the wea
ther is cold or damp. The water from which the colour has
been precipitated is carried back to the immersing tub to
dilute other seeds, because it has been observed that it acce
lerates the fermentation better than pure water.
    When the anatto has been precipitated, which is known
by the liquor being uncoloured, it is boiled in kettles, stir
ring it continually until it is reduced to the state of paste.
When cold it is spread out in boxes to the thickness of from
eight to ten inches, and is dried in a place sheltered from
the sun, which would blacken it. When it is so dry that a
mass of about fifteen pounds can be taken up bv thrusting
the hand into   it,   it
                      is  put into baskets lined with leaves, and
carried to market. Kach basket weighs about seventy pounds.
    When about to be put into casks, cakes of the diameter
of the cask are formed upon leaves of the balalou, and they
are pressed into the cask till  it   isfull. The cask ought to
weigh from 300 to 350 pounds, and to contain no more
than To3 of leaves.       But on such occasions a great number
of frauds are committed on this account government for
                           :
merly appointed commissioners to verify the quality of the
anatto.    1hey took determinate quantity, which the)' wash
                      a
ed several times; and      if  the residuum exceeded       twelfth
                                                            a
part the anatto was rejected.       The goodness of          tried
                                                            it
                                                            is
also   by  rubbing    alittle ofit   on the nail:     after being
                                                       if
                                S3                        n ashed

278              Method     of collecting Succinic Acid
washed and soaped there do not remain a red spot, which
is called mordant, the anatto is considered as of no value.
     Such is the process employed for the fabrication of anatto.
The author of the memoir remarks that this tedious, labo
rious, and unhealthful operation gives an uncertain pro
duct of a bad quality.            He proposes merely to wash the.
seeds till they are entirely freed from the colour, which is
placed at the surface; to make the water pass through fine
sieves, to separate the remains of the bark, to precipitate
the colour by means of vinegar or lemon juice, and to bake
it in the usual manner, or to make it drain in bags, as is
practised for indigo*.          This process is founded on tbis cir
cumstance, that; as the colour is entirely at the surface of
the seeds, it is needless to bruise the latter, and to reduce
them to a state of putrefaction. This method would be ad
vantageous to the planter who may wish to save hands; to
 the merchant, who would gain in regard to the freight ;
 and to the dyer, who, being sure of the quality of his co
 louring matter, would be enabled to determine with exact
 ness the quantity necessary for his purpose. If the planters
 of Guyana refuse to change their process, it might be advan
 tageous to send to Europe the seeds without preparation.
 The saving in the manipulation would be equal to, and even,
 surpass, the expense ot carriage.            The annual consumption
 o! anatto amounts to 240 tons.               When the crop exceeds
  £80, the price of this article, the use of which is limited, falls
   j
 s much that the cultivation of it ceases to be advantageous.
 XLVIL        Observations on the Possibility of collecting a cer
     tain Quantity of Succinic Acid during t/w Process of
     waking Amber Varnish, without lessening the Property of
     the Furnish.      By M. Planche, Memltr of the Pharma
     ceutic Society of     Paris f.
 .Having        had   occasion to assist some time ago in the pre
 paration of      amber varnish on a large scale, 1 observed that
     * Jussieu, Desfontaincs, Cels, and Vauquelin, commissioners of the
  National Institute, have verified the excellence of this new process. The
  anatto which thence results is less mixed with impurities, and conse
  quently of a finer tint) so that one pan of the anatto extracted by simple
  washing produces the same effect as four of common anatto. This fact
  is confirmed by a certificate from C. Ducuret jun. and Genet, dyers at
  Paris. They add also that this anatto is more easily employed; that it
  requires less solvent, and gives a purer colour.
     + From the Annates de Cbimit, No. 14;.
                                                                     during

                              while making Amber Varnish.                                           279
during the operation, and until the heated substance had ac
quired the proper degree of fluidity, a great deal of succinic
acid was disengaged.
   Every artist has had an opportunity of making the same
remark ; but whether they mistook the real nature of this
salt and its properties, or considered it only as essentially in
herent in the quality of the varnish, no one has hitherto- at
tempted, as far as I know, to derive any advantage from it.
Those, however, would be in an error who should infer from
what ha» been said, that good varnish ought to be free from
succinic acid : on the contrary, it is very probable, that on
the addition of drying oil and essence, which ought to in
crease the fluidity of the amber, this matter can still furnish
some     of        it,   and even           in    abundance.
 I   should deviate from the real object           have proposed in      I
this notice, were      to relate the different processes employed
                              I
in the preparation of this varnish          shall only observe, that
                                                              I
                                                              :
as this operation      performed   for
                                  is   the  most  part with the con
tact of the air, and over an open fire, and in varnished
earthen vessels, the aperture of which             from four to five        is is
inches in diameter, — when the matter             sufficiently pene
trated        by
           caloric,     part of the succinic acid, become free,
                                  a                                                                      is
exhaled as mere loss into the atmosphere, while            very large               a
quantity     fixed to the sides of the matrass, under the form
               is
of very tine delicate needles, sufficiently white to have no
need of purification*.       Each matrass, containing twenty-
four ounces of amber,           common dose,) can furnish from
                                                 (a
eighty to ninety grains of acid, without in any manner les
sening the quality of the varnish                  proper to observe
                                                              f-       It    is
also, that one ought to seize the moment when the succinic
acid     disengaged, to separate
         is                                and this disengagement
                                                           it ;
takes place      little time before the addition of the oxyge
                         a
nated or drying oil. If the operation be deferred, the greater
part of the product will be lost. The motion indeed neces
sary to be given to the spatula, to effect the mixture of the
oil with the amber, detaches            great deal of volatile salt.
                                                          a
All hope, therefore, of collecting          must be lost when es  it
sence of turpentine         added    as this oil, vaporized
                                        is            ;           the                       by
   • The acid obtained                 by
                              the first operation   indeed very pure when the
                                                                   is
vessel    new, but
         is            the subsequent operations
                             in                        becomes more coloured.
                                                                        it
Recourse may be had to the processes of purification indicated           Pott.              by
Artists will find    of advantage to employ matrasses of copper as these
                         it                                                             :
vessels are easily cleaned, they will always furnish the same product.
   •f-  ascertained this fact                by
                                  several experinicnis, performed    ith
                                                                                                 is in
     I                                                                     my           b
own laboratory and in that of M. Tonnelier, coich-pjuuer, who             ex
ceedingly well versed      this branch of the arts.
                                   in
                                                      S*                                •
                                                                                                  heat

    280             Notices respecting Ntw Books.
    heat   of the mixture, which sometimes swells so as to run
    over   the vessels, causes the succinic acid to disappear en
    tirely.
        However minute the means I employed to extract the
    succinic acid mav appear, I thought it necessary to describe
    them.     I first conceived the idea of separating it with a
    card : this process succeeded pretty well ; x>ut in this case one
    is exposed to the danger of being burnt.         I employed with
    more advantage a spoon of tinned iron, which is different
    from the usual form only in being semicircular, not so con
    cave, and proportioned to the size of the vessel.          It termi
    nates behind in a thin plate of iron, which, exceeding the
    edge by some lines, represents a sort of band, from which
    arises, at right angles, a handle of the same substance,
    fifteen inches in length. This form appeared to me most
    convenient ; first, because, by applying it exactly against
    the sides of the vessel, it prevents the salt, which is de
    tached by instantaneously removing         it, from being mixed
    with the Fused amber; secondly, because          offers to the artist
                                                     it
    the means of operating, without being so much incommoded
    by the vapours disengaged from the matter.
      It  results from what "has been said, that artists who pre
    pare amber varnish may          infuture, without making any
    change   in  the. apparatus or in their process, obtain    a  consi-
¦
    dcrable quantity of succinic acid, which, though hitherto
    confined to medicinal purposes, may soon be rendered useful
    in the arts. Some trials already give reason to hope that an
    alcoholic solution of    it may be employed for imitating the
    colour of certain valuable kinds of wood.
                XLVITI.    Notices respecting New Books.
    The Painter and farnisher's Guide; or, A Treatise, both in
      Theory and Practice, on the Art    making and applying
                                             of
      Varnishes; oh the different Kinds      Painting; and on
                                                  of
      the Method     preparing Colours, both simple and arm-
                    of
      pound, &c. By P. F. Tingry, Professor               of
                                                    Chemistry,
      &c. in tie Academy
                t             Geneva. 8vo. 540 Pages. Kears-
                               of
      kv, Fleet-street.
    We   have perused this work with great satisfaction;              it
 contains much new, useful, and interesting information on
 the different subjects which     embraces, and cannot fail to
                                    it
.be highly serviceable to artists. We think the publisher has
                                                               rendered

                Academy   of  Sciences at Berlin.        ,  281
rendered a real service to the arts in this country, by giving
an English translation of it. The translation is a good one.
     In our future numbers we shall give some extracts from
this work, which has been highly recommended by M. Se-
ftebier, who was appointed to examine it by the Society at
Geneva for the Encouragement of Arts.
            XLIX.   Proceedings   of Learned Societies.
             ACADEMY OF SCIENCES        AT BERLIN.
  J. he following papers were read in this academy from the
month of July to December, 1 803 :
     July 7th. Observations on some points of the Grecian
music, by M. Tremblay.
      14th. An account or experiments on the alkaline matters
contained in certain vegetables: a continuation, by the di
 rector Bernoulli.
     21st. Observations on the logical regressus, according to
 the idea of the old commentators on Aristotle ; and at the
 same time a short account of the life of M. Miloczewski,
 who made over to the academy a capital for the foundation
 of philosophical prize questions : by M. Nicolai.
     August 4th. In the public sitting of this day, an oration
 byM. Merian, director. An eulogy on the minister of state,
 Baron Von Heynitz, by M. Gerhard.         Anecdotes of the life
 of the princess Barbe, daughter of John the Alchymist, by
 M. Erman. An eulogy on M. Engel, by M. Nicolai. On
 Pestalozzi's method or teaching, by professor Fischer.
     September 1 5th. A fifth dissertation on the painting of
 theantients, from its origin to the 94th Olympiad, or Apol-
 lodorus of Athens.
     22d. An essay on a new theory of the existence and qua
 lities of the physical elements, deduced from general expe
 rience, by Dr. Hermbstadt.
      29th. New observations made at the observatory in the
 year 1 802, together with the results; and several astronomi
 cal observations and remarks from his correspondents, by
 professor Bode.
     October 6th. An eulogy on M. Anicres, by the director
 Merian.
      15th. A fragment in regard to an essay on the history of
 the Alps, comprehending reflections on the language of the
 people who inhabit in particular the Pais de Vaud, by the
 Abbe Denina.
                                                           25th.

282 Academy      of Sciences at   Copenhagen,   Stockholm, &c.
   25th. Researches on the inflammable matter of particular
fossils ; on a green earth from New East Prussia ; and a sup
plement to the history of meteoric stones, by Dr. R. Klap-
roth.
   27th. A second memoir on the relation between music
and declamation, by professor Burja.
   Nov. 3d. On a new kind of logical algorithm, by pro
fessor Castillon.
   10th. On Seneca's consolation to PolybiuS, by professor
Spalding.
   1 7th. On the plants of the species   chara ; and on the
preservation of potatoes, by professor Willdenow.
   24th. On the gauging of casks^ by M. Eytelwein.
   Dec. 1st. Continuation and conclusion of philosophical
and moral thoughts, by M. Ancillon.       Memoir of Baron
de Chambrier on the expedition into Greece in 1 368, and
on the political system of Europe at that period, by M.
Erman.
   15th. Aerostatic experiments made at Hamburgh on July
18th by M. Robertson, by professor Tremblay.
   22d. A third memoir on the methods of approximation,
by the same.
         ACADEMT OF SCIENCES AT COPENHAGEN.
  In             of the 3d of February, professor Bugge read
       the sitting
a dissertation on the eclipse of the moon which took place
on the 26th of January.
       THE ACADEMY       OF SCIENCES    AT STOCKHOLM.
   This academy, to preserve the remembrance of one of its
oldest and most meritorious members, the late Von Eerrner,
counsellor of the chancer)', and as a mark of its gratitude
for a considerable legacy bequeathed by him to        it,
                                                      has re
solved to strike    medal representing on one side his bust,
                     a
and on the other laurel garland, having within
                     a                            the words
                                                    it
Meriti tanti non immemor unquam: below, the words
Socio munif. def.   802. R. Ac. S. Stockh.
                     1
           IMPERIAL ACADEMT AT PETERSBUROH.
   By an imperial ukase the members of this society have
obtained permission from the emperor, after inspecting and
approving drawings submitted to him, permission to wear
the following uniform:     a dark blue coat, with standing
collar of red cloth; facings of the same, and blue lining;
the collar and facings embroidered with gold.    The other
articles are of white cloth with vellow buttons. 'Tie use of
                                                        this

                   Antiquities.- — New Vegetable Acid.                  283
this uniform is extended to the president, the academicians
 and adjuncts, and also to the pupils ; but with this differ
 ence, that, besides on the collar and facings, they have em
broidery on the pockets, which \% not the case with the ad
juncts. The pupils have the uniform without embroidery.
    M. Gorachow, a merchant of Jakusk, has transmitted to
 his imperial majesty a horn of extraordinary size, which was
 found in the river Krom. This rarity has been sent to the aca
 demy of sciences, to be preserved in its museum.          It is
 worthy of remark, that the inhabitants of the district
 where this horn was found believe it to be the claw of a
 bird called Kogroskari.
              h. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articlts,
                                  ANTIQUITIES.
Jjaron D'Aretin,       librarian to the elector of Bavaria at
Munich, has made a very curious discover)- in   the central li
brary of that city : it is an old manuscript of the thirteenth
century, containing a treatise on the Greek fire; which not
only gives an account of the method of preparing          sup     it,
posed     by
         the learned to be lost, but also process for making
                                                   a
gun-powder similar to that followed at present.
                         NEW VEGETABLE           ACID.
   M. Klaproth, in Scherer's Journal of Chemistry, has
given   paper on the nature of
          a                       saline substance observed
                                          a
and collected in the botanical garden of Palermo,       Mr.        by
Thomson, on the bark of the white mulberry tree (Morus
 alba).
     This matter was of       brownish colour;
                                  a                   covered and
                                                             it
 even penetrated the bark.        Its taste was nearly similar to
 that of the succinic acid. On coals           swelled up slightly
                                                   it
 and burned, leaving an earthy residuum. A thousand parts
 of water dissolved thirty-five parts of this salt warm, and
 fifteen cold.     By evaporation        gave crystals in needles
                                          it
 united in     radiated form, and of
                a                         pale woad colour.
                                           a
     Barytes formed    no precipitate in  the solution of this salt.
     Alkaline carbonates occasioned in             brown deposit,
                                                   it    a
 which        by
             calcination passed to white, and then dissolved
 with effervescence in nitric acid. The sulphuric and oxalic
 acids occasioned      nitric solution of
                         in   a           precipitates, which
                                                   it
 indicated the presence of lime.
                                                       Acetite

 284                    Trade and Commerce.
     Acetite of lead formed in it an insoluble precipitate, re
  ducible on burning coals.                                      :
     Nitrate of silver, brown, brilliant, and light scales.
     These experiments induced M. Klaproth to conclude that
  the salt collected on the bark of the mulberry tree was com
  posed of lime and a particular vegetable acid.
     On decomposing this salt by carbonate of ammonia,
 M. Klaproth obtained a deposit of carbonate of lime. The
 supernatant liquor gave, after proper evaporation, long nar
 row prisms ; the water even of these crystals precipitated
 nitric solutions of copper, green; of cobalt, pale red; of
 uranium, yellow ; of iron, brown ; of mercury, silver, and
 lead, the same.      It rendered slightly turbid a solution of
 acetite of barytes in water, muriates of tin and of gold, and
 nitrate of nickel : but these precipitations, according to the
 author, might be the effect rather of the extractive matter
 which adhered to the acid, than of a chemical combination
 with the metallic solutions.
     To obtain the pure acid, M. Klaproth employed the pre
 cipitate obtained by a mixture of the solution of the calca
 reous salt and the acetite of lead. This precipitate was then
 decomposed      by sulphuric acid diluted with water.      The
 proportions employed were 24 grains of acid, diluted with
 one gros of water.       The sulphate of lead was separated by
 the filter.   The liquor, when evaporated, gave by crystal
 lization 34 grains of acid in fine needles of a pale woad
 colour.
    The natural calcareous salt was also decomposed directly
 by sulphuric acid. The result was the same. Thirty grains
 of salt, and twelve of sulphuric acid, were employed.
    The properties of this new acid are : a very striking acid
 succinic taste ; it remains in the air without experiencing
any change; it dissolves easily in water and alcohol, and
does not precipitate metallic solutions.      When distilled, it
 appears   only   in part  decomposed  ; a portion is destroyed,
and the other is sublimated. This method may be employed
to separate it from the extractive part, to which it adheres
too strongly to be freed from it in the moist way.
    M. Klaproth proposes to call this acid the moronilic, and
its saline combinations moronitates.
                     TRADE AND COMMERCE.
    A new    periodical work has appeared at Petersburg under
the title of the Petersburg Imperial Journal of Trade : it is
published both in the Russian and German languages. The
first number contains a view of die history of Petersburgh,
                                                              in

                               Galvanism.                        285
in which    the author gives the following account of the pre
terit state of that capital and of its trade : —The city con
tains 7124 houses, many of them of considerable size; and
209,000 inhabitants.          The increase of its trade is remarka
ble. The amount          of the   exports was :
       In the year 7421        -     2,479,656 roubles.
                      1752     -     4,353,694
                       1762    -     5,217,006
                       1772     -    6,451,494
                       1782     -   11,467,347
                       1792    - 22,224,331
                       1802     - 30,498,663
                              GALVANISM.
                             To   Mr. Tilloch.
       SIR,
    Upon turning over the Transactions of the Academy of
 Sciences at Pans for the year 1 700, I found the following
 Article, which, as it throws some light upon the discovery
 of Galvanism. I hope you will think worthy of a place in
 your work.       I am, &c.
                                                    G. H. Browne.
 Weitminster Fire-Office,
      April 15, 1S04.
  " Of the Trembling         of the  Nerves  of a Frog after Death.
    " M. Du Verney           showed a frog just dead, which, in .
 taking the nerves of the belly of this animal which go to the
 thighs and legs, and irritating them a little with a scalpel,
 trembled, and suffered a sort of convulsion.             Afterwards
 he cut these nerves in the belly, and holding them a little
 stretched with his hand, he made them do so again by the
 same motion of the scalpel.             If the frog had been longer
 dead, this would not have happened: in all probability
 there yet remained some liquor, in these nerves, the undula
 tion of which caused the trembling of the parts where they
 corresponded ; and consequently the nerves are only pipes,
 the effect whereof depends upon the liquor which they
 contain."
    The above is     the most remote instance we have seen ad
 duced    of effects  to which we now apply the term Galvanic.
  Gardiner, in his Observations on the Animal Economy,
 maintains that there is in animals a vital principle, distri
 buted in the brain, cerebellum, and medullary substance,
  of which principle the nerves are the conductors. Lughi

586      Horneman, the Traveller.    — Neia Metal,  &fc.
and Klagel conjectured that the electric fluid is determined
by the nervous fluid secreted in the glands of the brain to
the nerves themselves.      Gardini relates an experiment made
on lizards : he observes that, if one of these animals be de
capitated and laid on glass, by briniring an electric sub
stance into contact with the neck, and laying the finger on
the tail, convulsions are produced.       These authors were all
anterior to the discovery of animal electricity.
                  HORNEMAN, THE TRAVELLER.
    The Danish consul      at Tripoli, M. Nissen, saw in Sep
tember last, at the house pf the pacha's minister, Ali Mu-
hamed Dghies, a merchant of Fezzan, who had arrived with
the caravan, and who had been at Buran.         From this mer
chant he learned that Horneman, the celebrated traveller^
who was known in that place under the name of Jussuf,
had set out for Gondash in order to proceed to the coast     for
the purpose of returning to Europe,
           NEW METAL EXTRACTED FROM PLATINA.
    In a late sitting of the National Institute, Collet Descos
tils, engineer of mines, read a memoir, in which he an
nounced the discovery of a new metal found in great abun
dance in the black dust left by platinawhen dissolved in the
nitro-muriatic acid. The principal properties of this metal
are: It gives a red colour to the triple salts of platina; with
the triple ammoniacal salt of platina it is precipitated : it is
easily reduced : it dissolves readily in acids, even the nitro-
munatic, when in the metallic state ; the oxides are green
or blue, or at least communicate these colours to the acids
in which they are dissolved : these oxides seem to be vola
tile, &c. C. Descostils found also that the sand which ac
companies platina contains titanium when susceptible of
attraction by the magnet, and that when not so it contains
chrome.
    In the same sitting Fourcroy and Vauquelin presented a
memoir also on this new metal. They stated, that having
known that C. Descostils had made the discovery, they were
unwilling to dispute with him that honour, and that thev
had waited till he should announce it before they published
a large work they have composed on that subject.
                    ON EXTINGUISHING FIRES.
   M. Driuzzi      has invented a  kind of liquor which in cer
tain cases prevents combustion.       A  commission, appointed
                                                             by

                Process for preparing       Milk of Sulphur, &c.               *87
by the government of the Italian republic, has confirmed
its efficacy, and it has been published by order of the mi
nister of the interior.   It consists merely of a solution of
two parts, in weight, of pulverized common soda in seven
parts of water, which is reduced to two-thirds by ebullition,
and strained through a piece of cloth.
   It is stated that this liquor produces no more effect on
wood in a state of combustion than common water ; that it
would be dangerous in the inflammation of alcohol; but
that it is exceedingly useful for extinguishing fires produced
by oily, fat, and bituminous substances.
       NEW PROCESS FOR PREPARING MILK OF SULPHUR*.
   Heat to redness in a crucible eight parts sulphate of pot-
msh  with onej)art of pounded charcoal. After gentle fusion,
dissolve the mass in four times its weight of water, and,
having boiled       add sulphur until the liquor refuses to dis
                        it,
solve any more. Then dilute        with twenty parts of water,
                                            it
and leave     at rest
                  it   decant the liquor, and precipitate
                              :                                            it       by
sulphuric acid diluted with water. The quantity of the pro
duct     equal to half the sulphate of potash employed. The
           is
sulphur might even be precipitated by distilled vinegar, to
obtain the acetate of potash      but in this case
                                           ;           would be   it
necessary to concentrate the vinegar                  by
                                             freezing, to avoid
too great volume in the liquor.
                                  AUGUSTINE EARTH.
   In addition to the article on this substance, given in our
last (p. 190), we subjoin the following extract from the
Journal de Physique
   " The name of beryl was given to small hcxaedral crystals
                                  :
found in kind of Saxon porphyry.
                 a                       Troinsdorff analysed
this supposed beryl, and asserted that he obtained from                             it
   new earth to which he gave the name of augusline that
is a
                                                                         ;
   to say, without taste.   Vauquelin has repeated the ana
lysis of this substance, and found that      phosphated lime,
                                                     it   is
 or kind of apatite."
       a                                                               *
                       EXTIRPATION OF THE PLAGUE.
   Professor Valli and Dr. Pezroni. set out some time ago
from Constantinople for Natolia, in order to make further
experiments there, and in other parts of Asia, on the means
of extirpating the plague.
       •   Published   in   Tromsdorff's Journal of Pharmacy,   vol. ix. no.   1.
                                                                    METEORO

288                          Meteorology.
                   METEOROLOGICAL               TABLE*
                           For April      1804.
                     Thermometer.
                                                                               >
  Days of the             % 4            Height of
                  — 'c   —  -<=     c         K hi ran.
    Month.        C 1 *-            g   the                      Weather. .
                         ~°'z.     SB     Inches.
1804.  Mar.   27   41°     47°     38°   29-29            Fair
              28   37     44      36          •54        Showery
              29   35     51      44          •87        Fair
             30    45     54      46          •62        Showery
             31    40     48      35         •19         Rain, with snow
                                                            and thunder
      April    1   34     44      36         •36         Fair
               2   33     45      36         •22         Hazy
               3   37     46      37         •39         Fair
               4   39     50      38         •60         Showery
               3   38     43      37         •45         Showers of snow
               6   37     51      39     30.10           Fair
               7   38     53      37         •23         Fair
               8 39       54      36         •24         Fair
               9   37     47      40         •09         Fair
             10    40     43      3g     29'90           Cloudy
             U     40     41      37         •91         Cloudy
             12    37     43      38         •81         Cloudy
             13  '39      42      40         •74         Cloudy
             14   41      52     44          •70         Fair
             15   43     56      46          •62         Some, showers      of
                                                            rain
             16   43     49      44         •58          Cloudy, with     a
                                                            strong wind
            17    40     46      40         •61          Cloudy, with ditto
            18    41     47      35            •5        Fair
            19    36     44      34         •78          Showers of hail
            SO    35     39      33         •62          Showers of snow
            21    34     46      39         •58          Showers of snow
            22    39     47      38         •65          Fair
            23    39     44      47         •58          Rain
            24    48     58      49         •65          Showery     -
            25    51     57      48         •46          Showery
            26    49     58      49         •55         .Showery
                  • By   Mr.   Carey, of the Strand.

                             [  289     ]
LI.      Experiments to ascertain whether there exists any
    jiffinity betwixt Carbon and Clay, Lime and Silex, se
    parately or as Compounds united with the Oxide of Iron
   forming Iron Ores and Iron Stones. By David Mushet,
    Esq. of the Calder Iron-Works.
                      [Continued from p. 201.]
In     order to ascertain whether there existed any affinity
betwixt carbon and calcareous earth in high temperatures,
amounting to a fusion of the latter, the following experi
ments were made with the four following substances, viz.
calcareous spar, chalk, Kilkenny marble, and pure calca
reous earth.
    Before I begin this detail I think it proper to observe,
that when no particular nature of crucible is mentioned,
one of Sturbridge clay is always implied.        The carbon used
was formed from the burning of lamp-black, which was
found to contain less ash than any other charcoal I had
tried, and therefore less likely to injure the results by any
premature degree of fusibility arising from such a mixture
of ash. Its purity was further inferred frpm a superior affi
nity to iron, not only more instantaneous, but more exten
sive in its effects than either charcoal of wood or that made
from animal substances.        Oak forms frequently a very pure
charcoal, containing not more than 1 -150th part of its
weight in ash.         Lamp-black      contains not more than
 1 -280th part; and its tendency to revive a given quantity
of oxide of iron was found, upon the average of five experi
ments, to be to the former as 65 to 53.
    The tops of the crucibles were accurately ground, and
the covers made to fit nearly air-tight.        The matter to be
operated upon was introduced into the crucible while the
latter was at a red or bright red heat, and the cover, in a si
milar state, simply put on, and both introduced into the
furnace. This mode of operating is infinitely more accu
rate than luting, and using a green crucible : indeed, these
experiments could never have been made within a loodth
part of the truth in that way. A quantity of the water, which
is necessary to give softness and plasticity to clay, remains
after drying, and ultimately evaporates as the heat to which
the clay is exposed increases.       If charcoal is presented to it
in this state it disappears in great quantities, and renders
any experiment as to quantity extremely doubtful.
     Vol. XVIIL     No772.          T                        Exp*.
            May  1804.

290                        On the Affinities     of
                              Experiment      I.
     T took a very transparent      crystal of double refracting spar,
 and exposed it to a heat of 166° of Wedgewood.                     It was
 found fused into a very perfect glass of a rich green amber
colour, considerably transparent.
                             Experiment      II.
    A    fragment of      the same crystal, weighing 20 grains,
was introduced along with one grain of lamp carbon, and a
perfect fusion was obtained. The charcoal had entirely dis
appeared, and the colour of the glass was changed to a deep
 fiery amber colour, less transparent        than the result in Exp.     I.
                             Experiment     III.
    The    same spar, weighing 20 grains, was mixed with
 14   grain of lamp carbon, and introduced into the furnace.
Trie fusion was completed in fifteen minutes.                  I found a
perfect glass of a cloudy milky lead colour.               A minute por
tion of the charcoal remained, and there appeared twenty-
three globules of iron upon the surface of the glass, many
of which were so small as not to be visible by the naked
eye ; estimated at half a grain, or 2| per cent.
                             Experiment     IV.
    I took another crystal of the same double refractinsr spar,
and distilled it in a gradually increasing heat for five "hours.
I found it had lost its transparency, but had preserved its
figure and form in a most perfect manner.                   The original
laminae were entire, and alternated in various shades of co
lour, several of which seemed derived from iron.
        The crvstal at first weighed              -      -      69 grs.
        After  distillation            -          -      -      39
        Lost of water and carbonic acid, equal to
           43'48 per cent.             -          -      -      30
    Twenty grains       of  calcareous    matter    thus   obtained   were
fused per    se,  and   a very  fine portion    of  glass  was the  result.
The colour was a watery blueish glass faintly marked with
green, not very transparent.
                             Experiment      V.
    Double refracting spar deacified 20 grains, pounded and
mixed with one gram of lamp carbon, was fused into a glass
similar to No. Ill, but more inclined to a lead colour, and
possessing less transparency.             About l-6th of a grain of
carbon remained upon            the   surface    of the glass, and the
                                                                  number

                      different Earths    for  Carlun.            291
  number     of globules of iron     revived amounted to seventeen,
  and which      f estimated  to be equal to half a grain.
                     Experiment     VI — with    Chalk.
    Fifty grains of white         very well dried chalk was intro
 duced per se, and fused in a heat of 165° of Wedgewood.
 A beautiful amber green coloured glass was obtained, pos
 sessed of great depth of transparency.               When cold, the
 bottom of the crucible and the smallest speck were visible
 through the thickness of glass, which was more than a
 cjuarter of an inch in the middle.            Compared with No. I,
 it possessed a darker tinge of green.
                            Experiment     VII.
               Raw chalk finely pounded            -    50 grs.
               Lamp carbon l-50th,        or       -      l
    There resulted from the fusion of this mixture a dark
green primrose coloured glass, possessing some tints of the
topaz.       Its transparency was not in the least impaired by
the union of the carbon, the whole of which had disap
peared.
                           Experiment      VIII.
           '
               Raw chalk pounded                         50 grs.
               Lamp carbon     1 -20th, or          -
                                                           2^
    I obtained from the fusion of this mixture, at a heat not
exceeding 159° of Wedgewood, a very perfect glass of a
dark fiery amber colour, possessed of a greater degree of
lustre and effect than any of the former products.               The
charcoal had disappeared, and the surface of the glass re
mained free from any appearance of metal. Compared with
No. II, the results seemed altogether similar. The present
seemed, although the greatest mass, to have the advantage
in point of transparency.
                            Experiment      IX.
               Raw chalk pounded             -     -    50 grs.
               Lamp carbon 1-1 5th, or             -      4
    A perfect fusion was here obtained, as in the former ex
periments. The glass possessed a dark blueish lead colour,
transparent in their fragments, but dull and opaque in the
mass.     It exactly resembled the earthy parts of an iron ore
when separated from their metallic contents by fusion in a
black lead crucible, when the richest carburated iron is pro
duced. There remained untaken up half a grain of charcoal,
mixed with some particles of the calcareous earth of a pure
white colour. The surface of the glass was nearly covered
                                   Te                             all

 292                     On the Affinities        of
 all over with silvery shining globules of iron, which               I esti
 mated to weigh nearly l-i grain, or 3 per cent.
                           Experiment          X.
     I took a piece  of the same chalk, well dried, and roasted
 it in  a moderate   heat for five hours.
          When raw it weighed                 -       -      395 grs.
          After roasting it weighed                   -       236
          Lost of water and carbonic acid,
            <qual to 40*25 per cent.                  -       159
     Sixty grains  of this  roasted     chalk   was     fused in a heat of
  166° of Wedgcwood, and a very perfect dense glass ob
 tained. It possessed all the transparency of No. VI, which
 was the same substance fused per se in a raw state, but in
 place of an amber green it approached more to the colour
 and lustre of the emerald.         It differed from No. IV, wherein
 deaeified spar was fused, very materially, most probably
 owing to a greater quantity of iron in mixture in the state
 of oxide.
                           Experiment XI.
            Roasted chalk             -               -      50 grs.
            Lamp    carbon     1 -50th,    or        -         1
     A very perfect glass was obtained of a lead blue greenish
 colour, most evidently of the same species of glass with
 No. Ill, V, and IX, though lighter and more transparent.
 The charcoal had disappeared : no metallic globules were
 visible, although the state and colour of the glass indicated
immediate precipitation.
                          Experiment         XII.
            Roasted chalk                                    50 grs.
            Lamp    carbon     l-20th,     or        -         ^
     A very dense glass was obtained, which in point of colour
 was the same as No. Ill, V, and IX.                     A large grain of
charcoal remained untaken up upon the surface of the glass.
A number of globules of iron were revived, which I esti
mated at 2 or 2^ grains, several of the largest of which were
covered with carburet of iron.
                         Experiment         XIII.
            Roasted chalk                                    50 grs.
            Lamp    carbon    l-33d,     or          -         H
    This mixture was productive of a very beautiful glass.
The colour light lead blue, faintly marked with green, of
the same class with No.          Ill,   V, IX,    XI,    and XII.    There
remained untaken up nearly l-Cth of a grain of charcoal.
                                                                   A   very

                different Earths       for   Carbon.                 293
A very handsome spherule of iron, slightly marked with
carburet, was obtained, which weighed                !¦$¦
                                              grain, equal to
3  per cent, from roasted chalk, or       per cent, from the
                                             2
chalk in  a  raw state.    This experiment, compared with
No. XI, shows that 5-6ths of grain of additional carbon
                                   a
was requisite to precipitate the iron in   metallic state from
                                                 a
its dose of oxygen and lime; but compared with No. XII
proves, that although part of the carbon remained untaken
up, yet there still remained in the glass   portion of iron in
                                                 a
the state of oxide ; to disengage which     greater aggregate
                                                 a
of affinity was necessary.
            Experiment     XIV — Kilkenny            Marble.
  Fifty grains of this carbonate was fused into glass of       a      a
mixed greenish blue cloudy colour.        The upper surface
porous, or rather cellular, of   lighter greenish colour and
                                   a
more transparent than the mass.      The want of uniformity
in the colour of this glass induced me to repeat the experi
ment four times; three of which yielded similar glasses.
                       Experiment       XV.
          Kilkenny marble, raw                      50 grs.
           Lamp carbon -50th
                           1           -                       1
   The fusion of this mixture afforded perfect glass, wherein
                                             a
the charcoal had totally disappeared.    The colour of the glass
was a  darkish green amber, which in some particular lights
exhibited some fiery tints of      ruby colour.
                                   a                  resembled
                                                            It
No. VIII considerably, but did not possess the same depth
of lustre and transparency. The surface exhibited no ap
pearance of metal in      revived state, although
                           a                             was pre
                                                               it
sumable that   a  portion   of iron  existed  in the  glass, and
which had been affected, in point of colours,           the comby
bination of the present dose of carbon.
                       Experiment       XVI,
            Kilkenny marble, raw                   50 grs.
            Lamp carbon l-20th, or           -      2^
   A glass resulted from the fusion of this mixture exactly
similar to Experiments No. Ill, V, IX, XI, XII, and XIII.
There were found upon its surface four globules of iron,
which weighed      a minute fraction more than        grain, or
                                                            a
2  per cent.    Haifa grain  of charcoal  remained umaken   up,
so that only two grams, or     4 percent., were here absorbed;
whereas raw chalk, Experiment No. IX, took up 3^ grains,
or 3J per cent, more than the Kilkenny carbonate, probably
from its containing    alarger quantity of oxide of iron.
                               T   3                                Expe

294                     On the Affinities of
                                     ...
                        Experiment    XVII.
I  took a piece  of Kilkenny marble which weighed          875 grS.
After proper distillation I found it to weigh        -     528
Lost of carbonic acid, and probably a little water,
    equal to 39-6j per cent.                               347
    The colour of the lime thus obtained was very superior in
whitenessand apparent purity to that obtained from chalk.
50 grains of it fused per se yielded a beautiful transparent
amber-coloured glass, free from any metallic appearance.
When      compared with No. X, which was the fusion of
burnt chalk, it differed very materially.      The emerald co
lour, so marked there, was replaced by a yellowish fiery tint
approaching to the blaze of the Brasilian topaz : neither did
it in the least resemble the glasses obtained with the refract
ing spar, No. I, II, and IV.
                       Experiment    XVIII.
            Kilkenny marble, roasted         -      50 grs.
            Lamp carbon l-50th         -     -        1
    A  perfect glass was obtained by the fusion of this mix
ture of a lead colour, and similar to Experiments No.       Ill,  V,
IX,   XI,  XII, XIII,    and XVI.     Of revived iron there was
obtained 1| grain.      A few flakes of carbon remained upon
the surface of the glass, but so small in quantity that they
could not soon be estimated. It would appear, therefore, that
 l-50th only of carbon disappears with dcacified Kilkenny
carbonate ; whereas with chalk, in the same state, 1 -33d part
of carbon was absorbed.        Less iron is revived in the expe
riments made with the former than with the latter; which
most probably will account for the difference of the quantity
of carbon.
              Experiment XIX — with pure Lime.
    I dissolved chalk in distilled vinegar, from which it was
precipitated by carbonate of ammonia.         The precipitate was
dried, and possessed a very fine blueish whitish colour.           It
was afterwards heated to redness to drive off the acid, by
which its colour was a little tarnished.
    Twenty grains of it was exposed in a heat of !"0° of
Wedgcwood in a Cornwall clay crucible.           When cold, and
examined, I found it resolved into a very delicate transparent
glass of adcep watery colour, slightly teinted with sea green.
This experiment was airain repeated with a heat of 158°,
and a purer and more delicate glass obtained, though when
hold to the light a tintre of green was perceptible.         I then
apprehended    that the  acid had dissolved  a portion  of the  iron
                                                         contained

                 different Earths   for      Carbon.                    295
contained in the chalk, which had also been thrown down
by the alkali. These glasses, compared with No. I, IV,
VI, X, XIV, and XVII, wherein the substances formerly
operated upon were fused per se, exhibited a decided superi
ority of purity and transparency.
         Experiment     XX — Cornwall        Clay Crucible,
             Pure lime                                  20 grs.
             Lamp carbon    1 -80th,    or         -      \
   There resulted from the fusion of this mixture an elegant
primrose-coloured glass, of a different class as to depth of
water, if I am allowed the expression, delicacy of colour,
and real transparency, from any of the former.
        Experiment    XXI — Cornwall         Clay Crucible.
            Pure lime                                  20 grs.
           Lamp carbon l-40th,          equal to$
  This mixture   was fused into a fine yellow amber colour,'
still retaining a decided superiority as to transparency and
lustre. It only differed from No.         XX
                                           in the richness or
extra depth of the shade, which was intimately blended
with bright yellow and amber.
        Experiment    XXII — Cornwall         Clay Crucible.
             Pure lime                                  20 grs.
             Lamp carbon            -          -         1
  A   perfect glass was here also obtained, but all the fine
 shades and tints of the two former experiments were lost.
The glass was of the same colour and class with Experi
ments No. Ill, V, IX, XI, XII, XIII, and XVI, only pos
sessed of a greater degree of transparency. One-fourth of a
grain of charcoal remained untaken up, and two very mi
nute globules of iron of a silvery colour were visible. Thi>c
I estimated to weigh about the fifteenth part of a grain, and
infer that the precipitated lime now made use of contained
about l-300dth part its weight of iron.         These experi
ments were twice carefully repealed, with similar results.
Excepting once, in the experiment last noticed, the charcoal
had entirely disappeared.    This I attributed to the crucible
remaining too long unopened after being taken from the
furnace, or to some unseen pore or crack.
   It would appear to result from the foregoing experiments,
that the combination of carbon with calcareous earth       ex     is,
tremely small, if  not altogether doubtful.   In all the sub
stances submitted to experiment     aportion of iron was con-
                            T  4                       tained,

996                  On the Affinities   of
taincd, which of itself may nearly account for the disap
pearance of the various proportions of carbon.  The various
proportions which each contain will account, in a great
measure, for any dissimilarity of result which the glasses
indicated. The fusion of the refracting spar, Experiment
No. I, is productive of a glass similar to No. VI, in which
chalk per se was reduced ; but the fusion of the marble
yielded a glass materially different from both (Exp. XIV),
and more akin to the fusion per se of the pure lime, Expe
riment XIX.      The two latter yielded less iron trun the
former ; from which it was presumable that their high co
lours resulted from the extra quantity of iron united to the
carbonates.
  When the carbonates arc        fused with ]-2(>th part their
weight of carbon, the results    are thus recapitulated. Double
refracting spar yields a deep fiery amber-coloured glass. Chalk
a glass similar, but a shade or two less brilliant, both with
out any signs of revived iron ; but with the same propor
tion of carbon the Kilkenny carbonate yielded a clouded lead-
coloured glass, presented a portion of its carbon still un-
consumed, and gave out four globules of iron.            Experi
ments No. II, VIII, and XVI, the direct inference 1 would
draw from this circumstance would be, that as the Kilkenny
carbonate contained less iron than either of the other two
substances,   a smaller portion of carbon was sufficient to
discharge the iron ; and seeing that a variety of amber co
lours mixed with greens existed no longer than the iron
remained in a state of oxide, I would also infer that these
colours depended upon the state of oxygenation of the iron
altered by the different doses of carbon, and not on any pe
culiar combination of carbon with the matter of lime. This
is further deducible from the fact of the glasses always at
taining to the same colour, and nearly to the same trans
parency, as soon as the whole of the iron is revived : be
yond this the addition of carbon even prevents the fusion of
the lime, as in Experiment No. IX, and by no means unites
to it by cementation, which shall he proved hereafter.
The proportions of iron revived in all the carbonates are in
 the ratio of the quantity of carbon necessarily added to dis
 charge the same.       Upon a fair mean of all the experi
 ments made with the carbonates respectively, it appeared
 to me that the chalk contained nearly 31 per cent., the
 ro;racting spar from 2j to 3, and the Kilkenny marble
 about 1 or
        .'.   2 per cent, of iron. Hence we find, that in the
 former there disappeared   3^   grains of carbon^ or per cent.
                                                    7         ;
                                                             in.

                   different Earths  for Carbon.              297
in    the second an equal quantity, less a portion that was
found imtakcn up ; and in the last two grains, or equal to
4 per cent, of carbon.
     The general results with the deacified carbonates may be
thus briefly summed up :— Calcined refracting spar per se
gives a glass of a light blucish watery cast, somewhat allied
to pure Time, Experiment IV; calcined chalk, a dark eme
rald green, Experiment X ; and calcined marble affords a
 rich dark brown amber, Experiment XVIf.               The roasted
 chalk becomes completely saturated with 1 -33d part the
 weight of the earth of carbon, minus about 1 -6th of a grain ;
 so that about 2jds per cent, of carbon disappears.           The
 refracting spar yields a result similar; but the disappear
 ance of carbon with the Kilkenny roasted marble is only
 equal to l-30th, or 2 per cent.        When the lime was thus
 used in a caustic state, a greater proportion of iron was at
 the same time revived by ail that would have been con
 tained in a weight of lime equal to the measure of the car
 bonic acid dispelled. It would appear from this fact, that
 the extra doses of carbon necessary to produce the final
  change of colour and the disengagement         of the iron, used
  iu the experiments with the carbonates, were not dissipated
  by uniting to the iron contained in them respectively, see
  ing that in the experiments with the deacified compounds
  not above half the carbon was requisite to revive from so to
  40 per cent, of more iron.       This may be accounted for in
  two ways ; either by supposing a quantity of moisture in
  the carbonates, which by evaporating at a high heat dissolves
  a portion of the carbon, and escapes' with it ; or by sup-
    using that a peculiar affinity is exerted upon the carbon
  Ey the carbonic acid, and a portion of the former by that
   means fixed in the calcareous matter by fusion.       One thing
   however is certain, that the fusion per se of caustic and
   carbonate lime of the same nature forms glasses of vcrv op
   posite colours.    (See Experiments No. I and IV, No. VI
   and X, and No.XIVandXVII.) As the only difference be
   twixt these states of rime arises from the presence or absence
   of the fixed air and what water they contain, it can onlv
   be attributed to them, unless we can suppose that a small
   portion of oxide of iron contained in the lime, not exceed
   ing 3 per cent., can, by undergoinjr an attenuated process
   of roasting along with the calcining lime, occasion a change
   of colour bv superoxygenation.
       Finally, upon this head of experiment, it seems obvious
   that the colouring principle in these glasses, from whatever
   they are obtained, is iron.    Their colour in general is green
               5                                                and

    S98           On preparing Potatoes in Digesters
    and amber mixed.       Carbon darkens these shades, and con
    veys at times  some   very fine tints of colour, approaching to
   the fire of the ruby or the mellowness of the topaz.           An
   extra dose of carbon destroys the transparency, and throws
   a cloudiness over the fracture of a blue wavy cast, always at
   tended by the elevation of minute globules of iron upon the
   surface of the glass.
       There is now only one thing that occurs to me that can
   be urged against the foregoing conclusions.            It appears,
   that in proportion as the carbonates are free from iron, their
   fusion per se affords glass proportionably transparent ; andl
   in the case of the pure lime the result was nearly as trans
   parent as water.   If therefore the deduction formerly drawn,
   that the disappearing carbon unites not with the lime, but
  with the iron, be correct, the glasses, after the whole of the
  metal is discharged, ought to approach the transparency
  and purity of the fusions per se.           The reverse is however
  the fact; for in no stage of these experiments do the respec
  tive glasses exhibit a less degree of transparency than after
  the iron is discharged.     I cannot decidedly account for this ;
  but I am inclined to think that this permanent lead blue
  colour arises from a peculiar combination of iron with cal
  careous earth, experienced        in a great many experiments
  with iron and steel.
                           [To  be continue'd.]
 LII.    Experiments on preparing Potatoes in Digesters for
     feeding lean and fattening other 'Stock...         By the Rev.
      William Pierrkpont, of Burton Park, Sussex. -% ¦_
  JL he thanks of the Society for the Encouragement of Arts,
 Manufactures, and Commerce, from the 21st volume of
 whose Transactions we copy the subjoined particulars, were
 voted to Mr. Pierrcpont last session for the following com
 munication :
        " SIR,
     " The object   of  the Society for the Encouragement of
Arts, &x. being      the  general benefit of the community,         I
send you the following method of preparing potatoes, for
the purpose of both feeding lean and fattening other stock;
conceiving and hoping, from the experiments I have already
made, that it will contribute something to the end which
the society has in view.        Not altogether satisfied with the
system of curing or preparing potatoes by steam from heated
                                                              water,

       for feeding lean and fattening other Stock.  C90
water, which I had practised, and conceiving that some
better method might be found out, I made several experi
ments in the year 1801, and bestowed great attention and
pains before I brought the following plan to bear.
   " I have half a dozen common six-gallon iron digesters,
which are filled with potatoes, either fresh washed from the
water, or dry ; for I cannot find that their being in a wet
or dry state makes any difference.        They are then put into
an oven, the bottom of which is a cast iron plate, three
feet ten inches long, by two feet ten inches wide; under
which is the fire divided into three parts.            Of this the
middle part, or division, is eighteen inches : the two other
divisions are ten inches each : the remaining eight inches
rest upon the brick-work. The heat is conducted, half one
way and half the other, round the sides of the oven to the
mouth, which is nearly eighteen inches square, and then
over the top, uniting in the chimney, in which is placed a
damper. There is also an iron rod, with a segment of a
circle at one end, for the purpose of pushing the digesters
into the oven from the mouth, and a hook at the other end
to draw them back to the mouth when done.                  The first
round, that       is,
                   the six digesters first put into the oven take
about two hours         inbaking, supposing the fire not kindled
before they are put           and every round after the first may
                             in
                              ;
 be done in little more than an hour.        This process requires
very little fuel, and        no means the attention or the force
                              by
necessary for steaming as the potatoes will be done quicker
                                  ;
or slower  in   proportion to the heat applied, without any of
it being lost for want of greater force even one round left
                                              ;
in the oven over night, with          mere trifle of fuel, will be
                                          a
done the next morning          but do not allow that to be done,
                                   :      I
because  it  turns the potatoes black, and hurts the digesters.
 Observe, the digesters must occasionally be rubbetl on the
inside with       alittle lard or dripping.     Potatoes cured this
way   are  not    byany   means  60 apt to turn  sour, or scour (he
cattle, and are more dry so that the animal fed with them
                                      ;
drinks much more, and they become harder when cold, so
as to be flung to the stock with more convenience than
 when steamed.
    " In the year 180S fattened fifteen brace of bucks chiefly
                             I
 with them    ;   say chieflv, for after the potatoes were gone
                  I
 they had  a  few beans.      They were very fine, and peculiarly
 well flavoured. Biggs, at Temple Bar, had thirteen brace
 of them.  I    also fattened, the same vear, with them, two
 oxen, three cows, and two pigs, which were equally well
                                                          flavoured,

 300              On preparing Potatoes in Digesters'
  flavoured, particularly the fat : the pigs had, towards the
 latter end, a few whole peas after each meal ; the bucks
 had six pounds per day each, at an average ; the lean deer
 in the park do very well with little more than a pound per
  day, instead of hay. This year, that is within the last
 seven or eight months, I have fattened two very large oxen
 and twenty Welch wethers ; the wethers, with which there
 were two South-Down rams, and one ewe, had eighty
 pounds of the potatoes per day, with a little cut hay. The
 ewe was put with them to teach the other sheep to eat
 them : she has since had twin lambs ; and the bailiff ac
 knowledges that the lambs do better than the others at tur
 nips, though he, with some other persons, dissuaded me
 from trying more ewes, under the idea that the potatoes
 would dry up their milk.     Four dairy cows never did so
well with very good hay, as they did last winter with about
four pounds of the potatoes and about five, pounds of rub
bishy hay and straw cut. But enough on this head.
     " The earl of Egremont had two of the Welch wethers,
and a sirloin of beef from one of the oxen.      The other, for
sale, on the 22d of March, weighed 343 stone : he has had
about 'forty pounds thrice a day.      I take the liberty of re
ferring to lord Egremont for the flavour of the meat.        He
has seen the process ; and I shall request the honour of his
lordship's transmitting this to you, in case he thinks it de
serving the society's attention.   I am, sir,
                                   Your obedient servant,
Burton Park, near Petworth,                  W. PlERREPONT."
      April 28, 1803.
   Charles Taylor, Esq.
   " 1 know nothing of the expense of preparing potatoes
in this manner, but I am inclined to think that they are
more nutritious than in any other mode of dressing. I did
not think it possible to bring such large oxen to such   a state
of fatness upon potatoes.
                                                 " Egremont."
    " SIR,
  " With all    due acknowledgment to the Society of Arts,
&c. for the honour they have clone me, as communicated
to me in your letter of the 27th instant, and which came to
hand yesterday, I could wish the subjoined additions to be
made to the account you already have.         My reason for
¦wishing it
            is,that any person willing to try the method in
question may profit      by
                         the general result of the many and
                                                     various

          for feeding    lean and   fattening   other Stock.     301
various experiments        I made, without being at the expense
and very great pains I was at, before I could bring it to bear
in its present form.        I had not the most distant idea of
using digesters at the onset of the business ; neither had I,
nor have l,any interested motive in view, either for myself
or any other person, or indeed any motive than the benefit
the public might derive from it.           I have deemed it neces
sary   and   proper,  both  out of  respect to the earl of Egremont
ana myself,       to make the above declaration and remark on
this occasion.        The following experiment was made, for
the earl of Egremont, to ascertain the quantity of fuel, &c.
as per date.
    "At     Burton    Park, 21st of May 1803, three bushels of
potatoes     were    weighed separately (each bushel weighing
sixty pounds) before they were put into the six digesters.
The potatoes from the two ,first digesters, taken out of the
oven when baked, and weighed together, were fifty-five
pounds j those from the two next were fifty-four pounds ;
and those from the third two were fifty-four pounds.             The
carpenter measured the wood with which they were baked ;
and he tells me, that a cord, or stack of good firewood well
piled (that is, wood cut into three-feet lengths, and piled
twenty-four feet in length and one foot ten inches in height,
 and which is sold in this neighbourhood for 125.) will bake
 ninety sets, or ninety times six digesters fulhof potatoes, at
 the rate of wood it took to bake the above six, which was
 the second set that day. A cast iron plate, five feet in
 length, instead of three feet ten inches by two feet ten
inches, will hold eight digesters, and by adding a small
 fire, thus,
           inches                6 inches               inches
              3                  7 inches                  3
on each side of the great fire-place, will, in my opinion,
 accelerate the baking from fifteen to twenty minutes in
 every set, as well as be some saving in fuel ; because the
 side digesters generally take that time longer than the centre
 one. The merit of this process does not consist in slow
 simmering ; for, the quicker the potatoes are done, provided
 proper attention is paid to them, the better.         With the four
 following observations adhered to, any person may exercise
 his own judgment, and indulge his own information and
 fancy in erecting his oven, whether it be for a greater or
 smaller number of digesters, and according to the "juantity
 of potatoes he may wish to bake.
                                                               "  1st,

302       On the Preparation     of Potatoes in Digesters.
    " 1st, The digesters,   or other vessels containing the pota
  toes,  must  not dc  in contact    with the fire.   2d, The said
  vessels, even placed on cast iron, must have legs, so that
  the bottoms of them do not touch the cast iron.          3d, The
 lids must be steam-tight, in order to prevent its escaping
 before the potatoes are nearly done, with valves, if not the
  same, something similar to those of the digester.             And,
 4th, The external air is to be excluded from them ; and the
 more effectually that is done, the better ; both for saving
 fuel and time, as well as to prevent their burning.          I have
 never had occasion for more than six bakings in a day j
 which six bakings, that is, six sacks or eighteen bushels,
 at sixty pounds the bushel, were done within twelve hours.
 The father and his son had 12.v. per week for getting from
 the heap, washing and baking the potatoes, cleaving the
 wood for ditto, and feeding stock: lOSOlbs. of potatoes
 are baked for little more than six parts out of ninety of the
 cord, or stack of wood, above described.           My opinion is,
 that two ovens of six or eight digesters each (according to
 the quantity of potatoes wanted) would answer the best pur
 pose ; particularly where coals would be used, or the wood
 is ready cut ; for then the same person could attend both,
 and one would be baking whilst the other was emptying
 and lilling, and this whether tor a great or small quantity.
 Perhaps two ovens erected together, with a single brick laid
 flat to divide them, with two fires at the end, so that each
 flue would go the whole length of the plate, mounting at
 the other end, and so over the top into the chimney, and
 the two doors of them at the two fronts, would answer
 very well in point of oeconomy, &c.          Perhaps also an ori
 fice just above the mouth of the oven, or in the door, with
a moveable valve fixed to            it,
                                      would prove useful, so that
 the steam which issues from the valves of the digester*
about ten or fifteen minutes before the potatoes are done,
and which smells like that from roasted potatoes, might
         by     instead of
              it,                 the mouth of the oven.        The
                             by by
escape
above steam         attended
                    is               hissing noise, and
                                     a                  a   kind of
boiling commotion in the digesters, which the person at
tending them will very plainly hear on opening the door          a
little.   When he perceives that noise, &c. begins to inter
mit, the digesters must be taken out, or the po'.atoes will
burn at the bottom, and that in proportion to the degree of
heat under them.        A very little observation will soon make
&   person acquainted with the proper time of drawing them.
The Society for the Encouragement of Arts        is  at fulf liberty
                                                                  to

             Description   of an     improved      Eight-Day            Clock.                303
.lo publish what they think may be useful from what have                                 I
 written j for public advantage is my grand object, as well
 as it is theirs. I remain, sir,
                             Your most obedient servant,
   Burton P.irk,                                              W. PlERREPONT."
  June 30, 1803.
Charles Taylor, Esq.
LIII.      Description of an improved                    Eight-Day              Clock, to
     strike without a Fly ; invented by             Mr. Edward Massey,
     of Hanley, in Staffordshire.
X he     Society for the Encouragement of Arts, &c. voted,
last session,  a bounty of twenty guineas to Mr. Massey for
this invention ; a model of which is reserved in the society's
repository. The subjoined account of it is by Mr. Massey*.
   " Having for a number of years considered a method of
striking a clock at certain regular intervals, which I con
ceive may be of great service in making observations on the
heavens, and ascertaining the velocity of sound, &c, I beg
leave to lay before the Society for the Encouragement of Arts,
&c. a striking part of an eight-day clock, which I have no
doubt will answer the purpose intended ; and          upon exa         it if,
mination, the Societyshould beof opinion that        maybe use
ful, trust they will reward
     I                            according to its merit. They
                                        it
will find that the work of this model       less than that of the
                                                         is
common striking-movements, and may be made                  com                 bya
mon workman, with less expense and trouble; the weight
required     also considerably less.
               is                      The principle act upon             I
is the pendulum,           by
                        which    regulate the stroke, instead of
                                      I
the fly    the advantage of which must be obvious to every
           ;
one. The machine consists of a toothed wheel A, one                                               pi
nion B,       pin wheel C, pallets DD, pendulum E, and
               a
locking detent G. The hammer -work                 as usual, and
                                                              F   is
strikes on the bell at H. The weight hangs to the cord                                            I.
 (See Plate VI. fig.    and 2, where
                           1             front and side view of
                                                   a
 the machinery are given, and where similar letters denote
the same parts in each view.
    " consider
         I            it only necessary for me to give the de
                           is
 scription of the wheels, so as to be direction to       a   me-                         a
     *   From the Transactions                                                                Arts,
                                of   the So irty   for    the Encouragement                  of
Manufactures,     and Commerce,      vol. xxi.
                                                                                     "
                                                                                         chanic

304     Description      of an improved Eight-Day Clock.
chanic who wishes to manufacture clocks on this principle.
The main wheel A, with seventy-eight teeth, is to act in a
pinion of eight leaves B. The pin-wheel C should be large,
 so that the pins on which the pallets D and the locking G
 act, may be flung as far from the centre as possible; which
pins may be eight or sixteen in number. If eight, the pen
 dulum L should be about nine inches long, and it will vi
brate twice betwixt each blow of the hammer ; but if six
teen pins are put in the wheel, the pendulum must be about
 three inches long, and will make four vibrations betwixt
each blow.      The pins for drawing the hammer must be
eight in number, and be fixed in a circle of about half the
diameter of the aforesaid pins. The locking plate is on the
main wheel. The stop is against the pins on which the
pallets act, and may be discharged by a flirt-piece.
    " As I have described the model, I beg leave to point out
the method of striking a cjock by the common pendulum,
true seconds, without any additional pendulum or pallets
for the striking part.
    " Fix a cantrite wheel with sixty teeth on the same arboc
with a swing wheel of thirty teeth.      Now, suppose a strik
ing-part to be made in the common way of making an eight-
day clock, so far as the pallet pinion, leaving out the warn
ing and  fly pinions.    A crank-piece must be fixed on the
pallet pinion, which must come into contact with the can-
trite wheel, which     fixed on the swing-wheel arbor. Then
                        is
suppose the clock to be set a-going, and the rack discharged,
the pallet pinion will make      revolution on every vibration
                                    a
of the pendulum,         by
                          which means     clock will strike se
                                                a
conds as true as pendulum vibrates, which
                    a                             hope will be
                                                        I
considered as useful for the purposes       have described.
                                                    1                     I
also beg leave to observe,         that   a   great advantage    arises   in
both the above machines from their not being liable to foul,
as the stroke   given
               is             by
                         the certain and regular vibration,
instead of the uncertain motion of the fly.   Its advantage
likewise depends on the cleanness of the work    and church
                                                         ;
clocks will be much benefited from the decrease of weight."
                                                                LIV. Ac-

                              £   305     ]
LIV.      Account of Improvements for diminishing Friction
    in Clocks.       By Mr. Edward MassKY, qf Henley, in
    Staffordshire*.
XIavino for a considerable time considered a method of
diminishing the friction in escapements of pendulum clocks,
which I conceive may be of great service in making better
time-keepers, by relieving the pendulum from obstructions
occasioned by friction in the train of wheels, and on the
acting part of the pallets, I beg leave to lay before the So
ciety for the Encouragement of Arts, &c. two escapements,
which I have no doubt will answer the purpose intended.
The difficulties which I propose to diminish in clock escape
ments, by this invention, are as follow : — First, it is al
lowed, that when the pressure against the recoiling escape
ment is diminished, as it is liable to be, from increase of
friction in the wheel-work, the vibrations of the pendulum
will not be performed in so short an interval. This cir
cumstance has the contrary effect on a dead beat; for, when
the pressure against the locking is the greatest, the vibra
tions will occupy a longer interval of time ; so that the vi
brations of the pendulum are liable to be affected from two
causes — from an increase of friction on the acting part of
the pallets, and from an increase or variation of friction in
the train of wheels.        These are the objects which I have
bestowed       great pains and expense to remove.
    I beg leave therefore to give a description of two models
of my improved escapement, that accompany this letter.
First, a swing wheel is made, in the usual way of making it
for a dead beat, except that it is not necessary to make the
teeth with fine points.        The pallets, instead of being fixed
on the verge in the usual way, are fixed on two light de
tents, one on each side of the swing wheel. The lockings
are on the inclined planes of the pallets, which are pressed
against the teeth of the swing wheel by remontoiring
springs, which should be under the command of the weight
or main spring, so that if an increase of friction should take
place in the wheel-work,         the vibrations of the pendulum
will not be much affected so long as there remains a power
to raise the inclined planes.           A momentum is communi-
    *
      From the Trm<(n-lions of the Society for ibt Fncortragemrnt of Ant,
 Martrtfiutxrts, mii Commttre, vol. xxi. — The society vmed a rouiry of
fifty pounds to the iuvtntor. Models arc preserved in the society's re
pository.
    No. "2. May        1804.         U                              cated

 306     Improvements    for diminishing Friction in  Clocks.
  cated to the pendulum through these inclined planes by two
  arms fixed on the verge, which come into contact with them,
  and unlock one on each vibration of the pendulum.           Thus,
  suppose   a  momentum     to  have  been  given by the   inclined
  plane on the right ; at the same time that this takes place,
  the wheel moves forward and raises the inclined plane on
  the left, and the pendulum, having performed its oscilla
  tion to the left, receives a momentum from the inclined
  plane to compensate for the loss of power which would take
  place during the ensuing vibration to the right, and so on
  alternately. The advantage in this model consists, I con
  ceive, in diminishing the friction in the acting part of the
  pallets, in giving a regular certain momentum, independent
  of any variation which may occur in the wheel-work, or on,
  the acting part of the pallets, except during the short time
 of unlocking.
     The second description, being a free pendulum without
 a verge, is as follows : — The swing wheel must be on the
 outside of the back plate.        The pallets arc formed like a
 pair of tongs, and are a fixture to the clock.         There is a
 spring fixed in the upper part of the tongs, which keeps
 them extended against the points of the adjusting screws.
The points of the tongs are pallets with inclined planes,
 and have lockings as the one above described.          The tongs
are made to spring from the point by which the pendulum
 is suspended, and, by altering the adjusting screws, a proper
tension may be given to the spring part of the pallets ; but
 they must be sufficiently under the influence of the main
power.      I think the main power should be about one-third
 more   than   is necessary to raise the inclined plane, so as to
allow for an increase of friction which may take place in
the wheel-work.        There must be a cross-piece fixed to the
pendulum,       which   must come into contact with two pins
that arc fixed in the inclined planes of the pallets, so as to
unlock one on each vibration of the pendulum.             Suppose
the pendulum to be put in motion, and to have unlocked
the inclined plane on thc-right ; the wheel moves forward,
and raises the inclined plane on the left, at which time the
pendulum receives a momentum from the spring pallet on
the right, and, after performing its excursion to the left,
receives a momentum as on the right, and so on alternately.
The advantage of this escapement over that above described
is, that it avoids the friction of the verge and detent pivots,
and during a part of the vibration the pendulum is disen
gaged, so that it is a free pendulum.       1 have no doubt that
             4                                                  the

   Condition      of the Inhabitants of the   Cape  qfGjod Hope.    307
  the society will judge of this invention with their usual li
  berality and candour.
              ,  First Method.      (See Plate VII.  Fig. 1.)
      A,    the swing wheel.
      B C, the two pallets.
      DD, the detents on which the two pallets             B  and C are
  fixed.
     E, one of the remontoire springs on the leftside; an
 other, similar to this, is on the right side of the frame, but
 is not shown in the plate.
      F,   the verge.
     G,     the arms fixed     on the verge,    which act on the pins
 HI     of the pallets.
     K, The pendulum,         fixed  in the usual way on the verge.
                      Second Method.      (See Fig. 2.)
     «r, the free pendulum, without a verge.
     I,   the swing wheel on the outside ot the back plate.
     t,d, the pallets, formed like a pair of tongs.
     c, a spring which keeps them extended against the point3
 of the adjusting screws.
    f, g,     the points of the pallets.
     A, i, the adjusting screws of the pallets.
     k, The cross-piece fixed to the pendulum, which piece,
 as the pendulum moves backwards and forwards, comes in
 contact with the two pins on the points of the pallets fg,
 and relieves the wheel.
    The pendulum is supposed to be in motion, and the
 dotted lines show those parts of the machine which are hid
                  -
 by others.
 LV.     Observations    on the Condition    of the Inhabitants of tfie
                           Cape   of Good Hope.
                          [Con.luded from p. 187.]
3. JL he corn boors live chiefly in the Cape district, and
those parts of Stellenbosch and Drakenstein that are not di
stant more than two or three days' journey from the Cape.
Their farms are, some freehold property, some gratuity
land, but most of them loan farms. Many of these people
are in good circumstances, and are considered in rank next
to the wine boor. The quantity of corn they bring to
                                    U s                         market

vjftfl           On the Condition of the Inhabitants
market is from a hundred to a thousand muids each, ac->
cording to the quality of their farm, but more commonly
to their skill and industry. They supply also the wine boor
and the grazier.       The grain sold to these in the country
is subject    to no  tax  nor tythe ; but a duty, amounting not
quite   to  one-tenth   of the value, is paid at the barrier for all
grain passing    towards   Cape Town.      Their parochial assess
ments are the same as those of the wine boor.
    The colonists of the Cape are miserable agriculturists,
and may be said to owe their crops more to the native
goodness of the soil and favourable climate, than to any
exertions of skill or industry. Their plough is an unwieldy
machine drawn by fourteen or sixteen oxen, just skims the
surface, and, if the soil happens to be a little stiff, is as
frequently out of the ground as in it ; hence in most of
their corn fields may be observed large patches of ten, fif
teen, or twenty square yards without a stem of grain upon
them.       Such grounds, when sown and harrowed, are infi
nitely more rough than the roughest lea ploughing in Eng
land.      They have not the least idea of rolling the sandy
soils, which are sometimes so light as to be sown without
ploughing.       Sometimes, towards the end of the rainy sea
son, they turn the ground and let it lie fallow till the next
seed-time j but they rarely give themselves the trouble of
manuring, except for barley.
     For returns of corn in general they reckon upon fifteen
fold; in choice places from twenty to thirty, and even
much greater where they have the command of water. The
grain is not thrashed, but trodden out in circular floors by
cattle. The chaff and short straw of barley is preserved as
fodder for their horses, and for sale ; the rest of the straw-
is scattered about by the winds.          They do not even give
themselves the trouble of throwing it into the folds where
their cattle are pent up by night, which would be the
means of procuring them a very considerable supply of
manure, and at the same time be of service to their cattle
in cold winter nights.
     The following rough statement will serve to show the
 circumstances ot an ordinary corn boor of the Cape :
                              Outgoings.
 The price of     the opstal or buildings on
     his loan farm          -      -      R.D.   7000
 30 Oxen a 15 Rd.               -        -         750
                                 Carried over    7750
                                                           Brought

                     of   the Ca'>e  of Good Hope.                      309
                     ...
                  Brought over      R.D.    7750
   50 Cows a 8 Rd.             -        -    400
    12 Horses a 40 Rd.         -        -    480
   6 Slaves at 300 Rd.         -        -   1800
   2  Waggons         -                      800
   Furniture                                iooo
   Implements of husbandry              -    500
                                          12,730      Interest     763    6
   Clothing for slaves            -          -           -           go   0
  Ditto for the family            -           -          -         150    O
  Tea and sugar             -         -         -        -         100    0
  Duty on corn brought to market 150: parish
      taxes 20          -          -          -                    1 70   O
  Contingencies, wear and tear, 8cc.              -      -         150    0
  Corn sold to the wine boors and graziers more
      than sufficient to defray all other expenses
                                                               '
                               Amount of outgoings                1423    6
                                 Returns.
  300 Muids of corn a 4 Rd.           -   R.D.      1200
   100 Ditto of barley a 3 Rd.            -          30O
  6 Loads of chaff a 32 Rd.               -          192
   lOOOlbs. butter a 40 USk.              -          250
  5 Horses sold annually a 40 Rd.            -       200
                                  Amount of returns              2142     O
              Balance in favour of the farmer            R.D.      718    2
                                                           or  £.  143   13
      4. The graziers, properly so called, are those of Graaf
  Rcynet and other distant parts of the colony.               These are a
  ¦class of men of all the rest the least advanced in civiliza
  tion.    Many of them towards the borders of the settlement
, are perfect nontadcs, wander about from place to place with
  out any fixed habitation, and live in straw huts similar to
  those of the Hottentots.       Those who are fixed to one or two
  places are little better with regard to the hovels in which
  they live. These have seldom more than two apartments,
  and frequently only one, in which the parents, with six or
  eight children ana the house Hottentots, all sleep; their
  bedding consists generally of skins. Their hovels are va
  riously constructed, sometimes the walls being          *"
                                                             mud or clay
                                  U   3                             baked

310           On the Condition   of the Inhabitants
baked in the sun, sometimes sods and poles, and frequently
a sort of wattling plastered over with a mixture or earth
and cow-dung, Doth within and without; and they are
rudely covered with a thatch of reeds that is rarely water
proof.
    Their clothing is very slight; the men wear generally
a broad brimmed hat, a blue shirt, and leather pantaloons,
no stockings, but a pair of dried skin shoes.       The women
have a thick quilted cap that ties with two broad flaps under
the chin, and falls behind across the shoulders ; and this is
constantly worn in the hottest weather ; a short jacket and
a petticoat,   no stockings, and frequently without shoes.
The bed for the master and mistress of the family is an ob
long frame of wood, supported on four feet, and reticulated
with thongs of a bullock's hide, so as to support a kind
of mattress made of skins sewed together, and sometimes
stuffed with wool.     In winter they use woollen blankets.
 If they have a table it is generally of the boor's own mak
ing, but very often the large chest that is fitted across the
 end of their ox waggon serves for this purpose.       The bot
 toms of their chairs or stools are net-work of leather thongs.
 A large iron pot serves both to boil and to broil their meat.
They use no linen for the table; no knives, forks, nor spoons.
The boor carries in the pocket of his leather breeches a large
 knife, with which he carves for the rest of the family, and
 which stands him in as many and various services as the
 little dagger of Hudibras.
     Their nuts and their persons are equally dirty, and their
 whole appearance betrays an indolence of body and a low
 grovelling mind.    Their most urgent wants are satisfied in
 the easiest possible manner ; and for this end they employ
 means nearly as gross as the original natives, whom they
 affect so much to despise.     If necessity did not sometimes
 set the invention to work, the Cape boor would feel no spur
 to assist himself in any thing; if the surface of the country
 was not covered with sharp pebbles, he would not even
  make for himself his skin shoes.      The women, as invaria
 bly happens in societies that are little advanced in civiliza
 tion, are much greater drudges than the men, yet are far
  from being industrious ; they make Soap and candles, the
  former to send to Cape Town in exchange for tea and sugar,
  and the latter for home consumption.         But all the little
  trifling things that  a state  of refinement  so sensibly feels
  the want of, are readily dispensed with by the Cape boor.
  Thongs cut from skins serve, on all occasions, as a succe-
  daneum for rope ; and the tendons of wild animals, divided
                                                            into

                         of   the Cape    of   Good Hope.
                                                                   -              *U
  into fibres,       are a substitute for thread.             When      I   wanted
  ink,    equal quantities of brown sugar and                  soot,   moistened
  with     a little water, were brought to me ; and soot was sub
  stituted     lor   a wafer.
      To     add to the uncleanliness of their huts, the folds or
  kraals in which their cattle remain at nights are immedi
  ately fronting the door, and, except in the Sneuwberg,
  where the total want of wood obliges them to burn dung
  cut out like peat, these kraals are never on any occasion
  cleaned out; so that in old established places they form
  mounds from ten to twenty feet high. The lambing season
  commences before the rains finish ; and it sometimes hap
  pens that half a dozen or more of these little creatures,
                                                                                 that
  have been lambed over night, are found smothered in the
  wet dung. The same thing happens to the young calves ;
  yet so indolent and helpless is the boor, that rather than
  yoke his team to his waggon and go to a little distance tor
  wood to build a shed, he sees his stock destroyed from day
  to day and from year to year, without applying the remedy
  which common sense so clearly points out, and which re
  quires neither much expense nor great exertions to accom
  plish.
       If   the Arcadian shepherds, who were certainly not so
  rich, were as uncomfortable in their cottages as the Cape
  boors, their poets must have been woefully led astray by
  the muse.            But Pegasus was always fond of playing his
  gambols in the flowery regions of fancy. Without a fiction,
  the people of the Cape consider Graaf Reynet as the Arcadia
   of the colony.
       Few of the distant boors have more than one slave, and
                                                                               on an
  many none ; but the number of Hottentots amounts,
                                                            each  family.        The
   average, in Graaf Reynet,              to  thirteen   to
   inhumanity with which they                treat  this  nation  I  have    already
   had occasion to notice *.               The boor has few good traits m
                                                                                    his
      * In the second                                          an account of fifteen
                          chapter of this work I have given                           A
   innocent Hottentots that were inhumanly butchered by the boors.
                                                       which  was  published    in i the
   pamphlet has just been put         into  my   hands
                                                                      and in which
   Cape by baron de P., private secretary to the governor,
   the same fact is noticed in the following words:—" A Hottentot captiin,
, of the name of Kouwinnoub, bearing the distinguishing mark of his rai
                                                                                       K
       stick,  on  the  brass head of  which   were  engraven  the arms of his ma
   (a
                                                                          one of the
   jesty), and famished moreover with a passport signed by
   members of government, went, accompanied by fifteen Hottentots,
                                                                               to pro
   cure a few leaves of tobacco in the plains      of Sneuwberg.     The    boors,   re
                                                                           had served
   collecting, peihaps, that three years ago these faithful soldiers
   the government by keeping them in order, thought it a favourable oppor-

312                       On the Condition of the Inhabitants
character, but this is the worst. Not satisfied with defraud
ing them of the little earnings of their industry, and inflict
ing the most cruel and brutal punishments for every trifling
fault, they have a constant practice of retaining the wife
and children and turning adnft the husband ; thus dissolv
ing the tender ties of social intercourse, and cutting off even
Unity to revenge themselves on these unhappy crearurcs.     Led on by a
veld cornet of the name of Burgers, they seized the whole company, who
suspected no         and, notwithstanding all the proofs
                      ill
                        ;                                         their favour,
                                                                             in                     it
was agreed that they were criminals, and that they must be treated ac
cordingly.     The boorish court of justice resolved, therefore, to bind them
to  a tree, and to draw from them               torture   confession of crimes of
                                                          by        a
which athuught had never entered into their heads; to reiterated blows
and inhuman tortures they held out promises of forgiveness             they would     if
confess all that was required of them and                           by
                                                         these means they forced
                                                           ;
from them the unfortunate declaration that they came with an intention
to plunder the neighbourhood.             The only concern of the court was, to
writedown confession, which the application of the torture, and the hope
                  a
of being set at liberty, had wrung from these innocent victims. The boors
put their names to this declaration as an attestation of the truth, and
made an end of the business            voting for their death. The sentence was
                                                 by
instantly put in execution, and the poor Hottentots were shot. — whole                     A
half year has passed away since this event, and justice hitherto has not
interfered,   I should not dare to say whtrefore."
 I   shall extract another instance of the savage brutality of an African
boor, recorded        this pamphlet, which,
                           in                      possible, exceeds all that have
                                                               if
                       "
yet been given — As soon as the English had abandoned the fort (at
                      :
Algoa Bay), boor named Ferreira, of Portuguese family, made him
                      a                                        a
self master of        and kept possession till the arrival of detachment of
                       it,                                                        a
troops, which government sent thither under the command of major von
Gilten, who        still there.
                      is           The Kaffers, fully persuaded that the late
peace had put an end to all disturbances between them, sent to the new
commander of the fort           bullock to be slain, as the test of reconciliation
                                     a
and friendship.       The Kaffer sent on the occasion put hi;nself under the
guide of Hottentot; and Ferreira,
             a                                            by
                                                way of returning the kind inten
tion, laid hold of the Kaffer and broiled him alive          bound the poor Hot
                                                                         ;
tentot to    tree, cut
             a             piece of flesh out of his thigh, made him eat
                                a                                             raw,         it
and then released him !"
    If  any one should be disposed to think that             have exaggerated the
                                                                     I
cruelties committed                 by
                              these inhuman brutes,       only request of them to
                                                                    I
read the pamphlet written                    by
                                     the private secretary to the present governor
Jansens.
   Nothing can be more deplorable than the state of the colony as de
scribed     this pamphlet, which was written just before they had heard
             in
of the war and nothing can exceed the disappointment of the Dutch
                  ;
\n their expectations with regard to the Cape.     The Hottentot corps was,
disbanded     most of them fled into the interior to join their oppressed
              ;
countrymen      the Kaffers were in arms against the boors
                  ;                                           the garrison in    ;
a state of complete insubordination   the people detesting the government,
                                                      ;
and the government afraid of the troops     its credit destroyed, money dis
                                                               ;
appeared, commerce ruined, bankruptcies without end         and they wanted  ;
only     war to complete thtir iniserv.
         a                                 Under such circumstances, how
                                                                            -
cheaply might England regain possession of this important settlement                            I
                                         •
                                                                                                the
                                             «

                   of the Cape  of Good Hope,               31 3
the natural resources of wretchedness and sorrow.       It is in
vain for the Hottentot to complain.        To whom, indeed,
should he complain ? The landrost is a mere cypher, and
must either enter into all the views of the boots, or lead a
most uncomfortable life. The last, who was a very honest
man, and anxious to fulfil the duties of his office, was turned
out of his district, and afterwards threatened to be put to
death by these unprincipled people, because he would not
give them his permission to make war upon the Kaffers ;
and because he heard the complaints of the injured Hot
tentots. The boor, indeed, is above all law.         At the di
stance of five or six hundred miles from the seat of govern
ment he knows he is not to be compelled to do what is
right, nor prohibited from putting in practice what is wrong.
To be debarred from visiting the Cape is no punishment to
him. His wants, as we have seen, arc very few, nor is he
nice in his choice of substitutes for those which he cannot
conveniently obtain.      Perhaps the only indispensable arti
cles are gunpowder and lead.       Without these a boor would
not live one moment alone ; and with these he knows him
self more than a match for the native Hottentots and for
beasts  of prey.
    The produce of the grazier is subject to no colonial tax
whatsoever.      The butcher sends his servants round the
 country to collect sheep and cattle, and gives the boors
notes upon his master, which an*, paid on their coming to
 the Cape.     They are subject only to a small parochial as
sessment, proportioned to their stock.       For every hundred
sheep he pays a florin, or sixteen-pence, and for every ox
or cow one penny.       With  the utmost difficulty government
has been able     to collect about two-thirds annually of the
 rent of their loan farms, which is only 24 rix dollars a year.
 Under the idea that they had been -dreadfully oppressed by
 the Dutch government, and that their poverty was the sole
 cause of their running in arrears with their rent, the British
 government forgave the district of Graaf Reynet the sum of
 200,000 rix dollars, the amount to which their arrears had
 accumulated.      By descending a little closer to particulars
 •we shall be able to form a better judgment of the condition
 of these people, and how far their poverty entitled them to
 the above-mentioned indulgence.
    The district of Graaf Reynet, as we have already observed,
 contains about 700 families.     Among these are distributed,
 according to the opgaaff (and they would not give in more
  than they had, being liable to an assessment according to
 the number), 118,306 head of cattle, and'780,274 sheep,
                                                         which,

  3 14  Condition    of the Inhabitants of the       Cape  of Good Hope,
  which,    to each family, will be about 1 70 heads of cattle
  and 1115 sheep.
      Out of this stock each boor can yearly dispose of from
  1 5 to 20 head of cattle,        and from 200 to 250 sheep, and,
 at the same time, keep up an increasing stock. The butcher
                them on the spot at the rate of 10 to 20 rix dol-
 Jjurchases
   ars a-head for the cattle, and from 2 to 2+ for the sheep.
      Suppose then each farmer to sell annually
  15 Head of cattle a 12 Rd.              -       R.D. 180
'220 Sheep a 2 Rd.                -        -      -      440
 A waggon load of butter and soap              1 200
     pounds a Is.             -          -        -      300
                          Amount of his income               R.D  920   0
                                 Outgoings.
 2 Waggons 800 Rd. interest                  -      R.D.  48-
 Clothing for 8 persons a 15 Rd.                  -      120
 Tea, sugar, tobacco, brandy              -       -      ISO   ¦
 Powder and shot                -                         20
 Rent to government and stamp                     -       25
 Parochial assessments                                      8
 Contingencies, cattle to Hottentots, &c.                 80
                          Amount of outgoings               R.D.  451   o
                                    Yearly savings          R.D.  469   0
                                                        or  £. 93  16   o
     In what    part of the world can even a respectable peasant
 do this  ?  much less the commonest of all mankind, for such
are the generality of the Cape boors. After quitting the
ranks, or running away from his ship, he gets into a boor's
family and marries. He begins the world with nothing,
the usual practice being that of the wife's friends giving him
a certain number of cattle and sheep to manage, half the
yearly produce of which he is to restore to the owner as in
terest for the capital placed in his hands.              He has most of
the necessaries of lite, except clothing, within himself;
his work is done by Hottentots, which cost him nothing
but meat, tobacco, and skins for their clothing. His house
and his furniture, such as they are, he makes himself; and
he has no occasion for implements of husbandry.                      The
first luxury he purchases is a waggon, which, indeed, the
wandering life he usually leads at setting out in the world,
              i                                                    makes.

         On the Distillation   of Spirits, &c. in Holland.      315
makes     as necessary   as a hut, and frequently serves all the
purposes    of  one.   A  musket,   and a small quantity of pow
der and lead, will procure him as much game as his whole
family can consume.         The spring loks are so plentiful on
the borders of the colony, and so easily got at, tnat a farmer
sends out his Hottentot to kill a couple of these deer with
as much certainty as if he sent him among his flock of sheep.
In a word, an African peasant of the lowest condition never
knows want ; and if he does not rise into affluence, the fault
must be entirely his own.
LVI,     Memorial of Mr. E. G. J. Crookeens respecting
           the Distillation of Spirits, &c. in Holland.
                       [Concluded from p. 113.]
 J. he water which is made use of is also deserving the ut
most attention.        Hard water, and which is loaded with
many     particles, produces  less spirit, and of a harsh and hard
quality.     In Holland they make use of the water of the
Meuse, and keep vessels expressly for that purpose, which
load the water in that river, and convey it to the laboratory
of the distillers. In other places, they take the water of
small brooks, where the water flows over a sandy ground
and they take care to make a provision of it when the wea
ther is still and calm, and not immediately after a heavy fall
of rain, by which the water might have been muddy. They
who have adopted the first method are of opinion, that by
this operation, and by distilling the whole mass at once,
they obtain a greater quantity of spirit, and that they have
less trouble in making the composition.            In this they are,
however, grossly mistaken.         The great many experiments
I have made in Holland with either method, and which two
years ago I repeated in the electorate of Hanover, at a di
stiller's of my acquaintance, have confirmed me in the opi
nion, that by this method no greater quantity is obtained, and
that the spirit, ceteris paribus, is less pleasant and of a harsher
taste, for this evident reason, that with the greatest precaution
it is hardly possible to prevent the thick mass, exposed to the
immediate action of the fire, from communicating to the
liquor an empyreumatic taste; and it is by no means impro
bable, that previously to the fermentation, all the essential oil
not having been set at liberty, a part of it has remained united
and incorporated with the flour, or at least with the husks
of the grain, and only disengages itself by the aid of the heat
                                                             during

316        On the Distillation          of Sirits, &fc. in Holland.
 during the fermentation and distillation ; so that, following
 this method, you are in danger of causing a large quantity
 of essential oil to go over with the spirit. This method has
 also the inconvenience attending                  it,
                                              that you are obliged to
 leave the caldron open till the liquid begins to boil, and that
in the mean time              man must continually stir this mass
                              a
with stick to prevent
       a                         from sticking to the bottom of the
                                   it
caldron, and being burnt, until the liquor begins to boil up:
 at this time the greatest danger            over, and the lid
                                                  is                put       is
on. Thus nothing             gained
                              is      in  point of trouble, because,
in following the other method, you proceed immediately
to the distillation.       Among the advantages which the dilu
tion of the mash, together with the slow fermentation and
distillation, communicates to the spirit distilled in Holland,
both in point of flavour and salubrity, must also be counted,
that the best distillers know how to extract from this mash
all the ferment,         bywhich means the spirit        rendered more
                                                              is
pure because the ferment, of whatever nature
      ;                                                         may be, it
contains most of the essential oil of the matter whence                            it
is  taken, and that by this method the greatest part of this
oil   istaken from the liquor before the distillation, while at
the same time they derive from             this profit, that they never
                                              it
have occasion to buy their ferment from the brewers, but
on the contrary sell, themselves,            considerable quantity of
                                                  a
it,  after having dried the same in the shape of loaves, in
which state they preserve             for years,
                                      it                 be kept in dry
                                                         if  it
places     and in this state
           ;                          is it
                                       much sought after         bakers  by
as well as          by
                    private families, because this dry ferment,
which       diluted with
           is                  little water, never communicates te
                                  a
the   bread   or  pastry  the bitter taste which barm does, loaded
          with   the  bitter particles of the hops. The distillers,
     it
as   is
who are acquainted with this method, enjoy the additional
advantage, that they can continue to distil during the sum
mer, and at such times when barm or yeast                    extremely
                                                                   is
scarce.     The profit which they ohtain from this ferment                         is
one of the reasons of the low price of the Dutch geneva,
compared with the price of spirits distilled in other coun
tries ;  but as they who are perfectly initiated in this art keep
ita   secret,   Ishall not explain at present the manner in which
they proceed, from the motives which                 have assigned at
                                                         I
the beginning.
    And as the Dutch distillers are under no sort of constraint
in their operations, nor have the least reason to hurry them,
they take the greatest care to clean after each opera
tion their caldron, and above all their tubs, in which the
vinous fermentation           is
                               effected    and they never fill them
                                              ;

             On the Distillation    of Spirits, &c. in Holland.         31?
again, but after having thoroughly cleared them from the
ferment, which sticks to the sides of the tubs from the last
fermentation, because they know from experience, that the
least remains of this matter gives the following liquor a bad
taste ; for this purpose they clean them with lime water, and
never with soap, because the caustic alkali contained in the
soap would not fail to give the liquor an urinous taste.
      By all these precautions they obtain a pure spirit, without
 being obliged to employ any noxious articles in order to de
 stroy the bad and offensive taste, and at the same time a
 wholesome spirit.            One circumstance, which contributes
 much to its salubrity, is this, that it is rectified over juniper
 berries, which possess a balsamic and aromatic virtue.                      It
 is at least averred by the most celebrated physicians both of
 Holland and other countries, that the juniper berries possess
 great medicinal virtue, for which reason aqueous decoctions
 of juniper berries are so frequently prescribed by physicians
 of acknowledged celebrity in inveterate rheumatims, which,
  after having baffled all other remedies, are commonly cured
  by a continued use of these decoctions ; and if the juniper
  berries actually possess this virtue, who can then call in
  question the great benefits which the spirit, rectified over
 juniper berries, must afford the inhabitants of a cold and
  humid country, where the temperature of the air is so un
  settled, that in the course of one day you experience several
  changes of heat and cold, and where, for this reason, rheu
  matic complaints cannot but be very common ? I have ex
  perienced very generally that turpentine is substituted for
  juniper berries in the malt spirits distilled in this country in
   imitation of Duch geneva.              It remains with physicians to
   decide, whether turpentine in this state, and taken in such
   quantities, mu3t not prove highly detrimental to health. I,
   for my part, am at a loss to conceive that an article as re
   sinous as turpentine (the residue of which, after the distilla
   tion, is colophonium) should not be highly prejudicial to
   health ; and I am apt to think, that for this reason it would
   be certainly worth while for parliament to prohibit the use
   of turpentine, and enact that juniper berries be substituted
    in its place*; the more so, as the substitution of turpentine
    tor the purpose of imitating the flavour of juniper Denies,
    merely arises from the avance of the distillers, and as Hol-
         • The
                author, pcrhapi from erroneous information, tuppmct that di
     stillers maVe use of what it commonly known by the name of turpentine;
     but it it the ctjcniul oil that it made ute of, which contains no ret in. —
     Edit.
                                                                           land

      3 18   On ike Distillation  of Spirits, (St. in Holland.
     land affords a striking proof and example, that if the use of
     juniper berries be not absolutely beneficial, it cannot at least
     fee hurtful.
         As the Dutch distillers are thoroughly convinced that the
     success of their operations depends on a slow distillation,
     they take particular care to have their fire-places constructed
     in such a manner, that the distiller may have it entirely in
    his power to abate or accelerate the action of the fire at every
    moment when he shall think it necessary.         It is impossible
    to fix upon a peculiar form to serve in all cases, as it must
    naturally vary according to the form of the vessel j but they
    never lose sight of the following general rules : viz. 1st, That
    the place which contains the fire must be contrived in such
    a manner, that the action of the fire operates equally on the
    whole surface of the bottom of the caldron without being
    concentrated    to one point, where the caldron would be
   burnt, and unavoidably and immediately communicate to
   the liquor an empyreumatic taste : by this equal action of
    the fire, the liquor is heated in a more equal manner, and
   by a moderate fire ; and also quicker than if the fire acted
   only upon one point. 2dly, That the openings of the fire
   places be iron doors, in which are made several small holes,
   which can be opened and shut, as occasion may be, to acce
   lerate or check the current of air. 3dly, That the chimney be
   furnished with an iron plate, or damper, placed horizontally,
   by which the diameter of the chimney can be diminished as
   often and as much as the distiller chooses, whd by this
  means moderates at pleasure the action of the fire, and can
  even stifle it at once, by shutting the openings in the fire
  place, and the passage of the smoke into the chimney.              .
       As the vinous fermentation is a point no less important*
  and one of the principal requisites on which depends the
  success of the operation, and as this fermentation can only
  be conducted slowly in a moderate temperature,           they take
  great care that the laboratories, in which the vinous fer
  mentation is effected, be constructed on such principles
  that the rays of the sun can be prevented from acting upon
 the tubs containing the liquor subjected to fermentation,
  by means of windows with shutters made every where op
 posite to each other, that in extraordinary hot weather a
 current of fresh air may be obtained to cool the laboratory.
 The floor is paved with stones, on which from time to time
 fresh water can be poured, which cools considerably the
'temperature      of the atmosphere in the laboratory ; and in
 winter it can be warmed by means of one or more iron
                                                             stoves,

       On the Distillation                  of Spirits, &c. in Holland.             3 19
stoves, or, which is perhaps still better, a delft stove, which
is made use of in several places in Germany, which are of a
more equal, more moderate, and less stifling heat.
    It must not be supposed that the distillers in Holland
make use of a small quantity of malt, from a persuasion
that no geneva can be obtained from the flour of rye, or any
other grain, without that addition ; the contrary is the truth :
I have made several experiments with rye, without the least
addition of malt; and I have always obtained the same
quantity of spirit, but it was never of so pleasant a taste.
This addition is only necessary inasmuch as it assists the
fermentation t and that if it be used there is no occasion
for so much ferment, and of consequence not so much es
sential oil is introduced into the liquor, which is the reason
that the spirit is of a more pleasant flavour, and not so harsh
as that which is made of rye, or any other flour.            I must
add in this place, that the Dutch distillers are extremely
careful to make use only of such rye as is erown on a cal
careous or sandy soil, and never employ, it they can possi
bly avoid    it,any com produced                      by
                                              fat, clayey ground
                                                           a                          ;
 and this is  the reason why they make use of rye imported
from Prussia, grown on          poor soil, and which, according
                                        a
 to common report,         dried in kilns before          exported,
                                                                   by it
                                                                           is
                             is is is
 and on this account       known in Holland            the name of
dried rye the grain
         ;                 small, and very hard and dry be                      ;
cause this rye produces more spirit and of         superior quality
                                                               a
 to that which       drawn from rye grown on
                        is                              clayey soil,a
 and because       contains less oily particles.
                   it
    On comparing the process of the Dutch distillers with
 that followed in this country,          will be obvious, at first
                                                     it
 view, why the spirit, which is distilled, does not possess
 the perfection or Dutch geneva, either in regard to the fla
 vour or salubrity and all the questions to be proposed on
                         ;
 this subject may be easily answered, from           mature consi
                                                               a
 deration of the difference of these processes         and the pre ;
judice entertained           by
                          many persons in this country as well
 as in Germany, that no spirit of the same quality can be
 produced in any other country, deserves only to be laughed
 at. These persons do not consider that geneva              product
                                                                           is
                                                                           a
 of art, which neither depends on the soil nor on the climate
 of country, as wine does, and that you employ the same
   a                                                      if
 materials, and observe the same process, the result must
 necessarily be the same      nor       less evident, that as long
                                        ;       isit
 as the distillation shall be effected on the principles hitherto
  observed in England, the perfection of Dutch geneva can
  here never be obtained.      la order to obtain       government  it,
                                                               must

320       On the Distillation   of Spirits, &fc. in Holland;
 must necessarily cooperate, by riving the distillers full li
 berty to act and proceed according to their knowledge and
 experience ; and I may hazard, without the least danger,
 the assertion, that as long as the duty is laid either on the
 quantity of" the wash, or on the capacity of the still, the
 above can never be attained, and the distillers to avoid their
 ruin will be obliged to have recourse to pernicious ingre
 dients.    In the former case, their interest prompts them to
 overload their liquids with too great a quantity of grain,.,
 which not only causes them to sustain a considerable loss
 of spirit, because the water, which acts as a solvent to sac
 charine matter, can only dissolve and keep in a state of so
 lution a certain quantity of that matter ; but after it is satu
 rated, the rest of that matter is lost. It further results from
 thence, that the fermentation, on which the success of thr
operation chiefly depends, proceeds not as regularly as in
regard to a well diluted wash ; and on distilling this thick
 and as it were over-saturated wash, the distiller introduces
 into his caldron a great quantity of oleaginous particles,
 and of consequence into his spirit more essential oil, espe
 cially if the distillation be pushed on with vivacity ; besides
that this thick wash, from the rapidity of the distillation,
is likely tq communicate to the spirit an empyreumatic
taste, which would obstruct its sale if the rectifier did not
correct this fault by noxious additions.
    In the latter case, the interest of the distiller demands
that he must conduct the distillation rapidly, and with a
violent fire; the result of which         is,
                                          that all the essential oil
rises with the spirit, and that       also must contract an ein-
                                     it
pyreuinatic taste.    It   further results from this rapid mode
of working, that the distiller does not allow himself suffi
cient time entirely to empty his caldron, or to clean     it   care
fully, as well as the other utensils which in my judgment
                                          ;
must have     a strong influence on the salubrity of the spirit
on account of the verdigris, which, from want of cleanness,
forms itself in the caldron and worm,           they are made of
                                                if
copper and as the distillations succeed each other in so
          ;
rapid manner, the distiller cannot allow the liquor suffi
      a
cient time to ferment slowly     ;  he must therefore make use
of more ferment, which cannot but produce bad effect,a
both in regard to flavour and salubrity.          They who assert
that rapid distillation has no influence upon the taste and
      a
flavour of the spirit, either try to deceive, or are ignorant
of the first principles of the art of distillation and in order
                                                     ;
to confound them, we have only to ask this question, Why
are we obliged to distil fine and delicate liquors in lalneo
                                                            rnarite

            On the Distillation          of Spirits, (Sc. in Holland.                         391
maria* (a bath of water) to give tliem that fine flavour which
causes them to be so much esteemed ? The answer            Be                           is,
cause, in this case, the action of the fire   not immediately        is
directed against the vessel which contains the liquor, and
because the heat      equal and uniform, and cannot be in
                               is
creased     the vivacity of the fire, because water which
                 by                                                                            is
in a  state of ebullition cannot assume       higher degree of       a
heat,    and thus the liquors cannot contract any einpyreu-
 matic taste.     If the lire had not anv influence upon the
 spirit, these precautions would certainly be fruitless.
    Persons who are of opinion that rapid distillation has     a
 no influence upon the salubrity of the spirit, arc equally
 mistaken.     No one endowed with common sense, ana pos
 sessed of the least knowledge of the art of distillation, can
 callit  in question, that        violent fire all the essential oil
                                        by   a
 must be made to rise with the spirit, and the fiery and in
 digestible qualities of this oil, so copiously mixed with this
 spirit, are too well known to admit of the least doubt.
They not only possess the property of intoxicating quickly,
 and causing head-ache, but also affect so very strongly the
 nervous system, as to cause       trembling when taken in any
                                             a
excessive degree       and in general
                           ;               may be fairly asserted,
                                                       it
 that adulterated spirits possess the quality,       common with          in
bad wine, of causing Iread-ache and trembling when drunk
 in an extravagant manner; which             not the case alter an
                                                           is
excess committed in drinking good and pure wine               and                   :         I
 rather incline to think, that                   by
                                     this rapid distillation some
particles of copper are disengaged, and rise and mix with
the spirit, because the wash contains some small quantity
of acids, which with the aid of an excessive heat acts upon
the metal, as all other acid solvents do upon metals           pro                  in
portion as they are assisted        heat and this
                                             by        perhaps the
                                                           :                   is
reason of the blucish colours discernible in spirit distilled
with    aviolent fire.
   But supposing that         rapid distillation cannot produce
                                    a
any effects hurtful to health, per se,           at least self-evi
                                                               it   is
dent it     excessively pernicious in its consequences, because
            is
the rectifier      absolutely obliged to employ poisonous
                      is                                                                      in
gredients for the purpose of destroying the empyreumatic
and unpleasant taste which the essential oil has communi
cated to the liquor      and which simple rectifications, how
                               ;
ever multiplied, cannot                 by
                                any means effect.
   Before    I explain these means       will be necessary to ob
                                                      it
serve, that unprincipled distillers, in employing these means,
have two different objects in view         namely, to destroy the
                                                       ;
  No.       72.   May      tw»4.                 X                                        bad

323      On the Distillation  of Spirits, &c. in Holland.
bad taste   of the spirit ; and, secondly, to increase the quan
tity or" spirituous matter, and thus to procure by those ad
ditions a greater quantity of spirit from a given quantity
of wash than they could obtain by a natural process.
    To obtain the former object the distillers make use of
pure alkali, caustic alkali, and Glauber's salt, which pos
sess a peculiar quality to absorb the essential oil ; but, on
the other hand, they communicate to the spirit their most
volatile particles, which their great volatility renders ex
tremely pernicious, and also impart to the liquor an ex
tremely urinous taste, not less unpleasant; in order to de
stroy which taste they are obliged to make at the same time
use of acids, such as the sulphuric, muriatic, and nitric
acids: others employ the crystals of verdigris, or radical
vinegar (acetous acid) distilled from crystals of verdigris J
or the acid from iron or copper vitriol. These ingredients
destroy, in some measure, the bad taste, without increasing
the quantity of spirit : for the purpose of attaining the latter
end, they have recourse to oleaginous aromatics in general
and vegetable oils, which pc»;sess an uncommon power to
augment the quantity of spirit ; but to produce this effect
they must be mixed with the liquor before the fermenta
tion : for this purpose they are triturated with a little sugar
in a mortar, and by this means they would considerably
retard the fermentation ; but the use thereof, in order to
derive from them all possible profit, requires a peculiar
mode of conducting the vinous fermentation. When the di
stillers wish to give their spirits a vinous taste, they digest
strong nitric acid with alcohol for some time, and distil it
afterwards, which produces a dulcified nitrous acid, and mix
a little of this acid with their spirit, which gives it a flavour
resembling that of French spirit of wine.
    These are the principal means which the distillers gene
rally make use of: they are very seldom employed in Hol
land, and by no means necessary for the interest of the di
 stiller. Their mode of proceeding yields spirit of a pleasant
and agreeable flavour, and in great quantity ; and no artifice
 can ever equal the taste and flavour which a slow operation,
in every stage and part of the process, naturally imparts to
 the spirit.   I must suppose that these practices arc more
 common, if not generally resorted to, in this country; but
 as chemistry furnishes a great many simple means to dis
 cover the alkali and acids in the liquor, the officer whom
 government employs for the purpose cannot but find it a-
 very easy task to detect the fraud ; for example, solutions
 of bodies precipitated by alkalis, such as vitriol of iron, but
                                                           chiefly

       On the Distillation                     of Spirits, &c. hi Holland.             323
chiefly alum mixed in small quantities with a little of this
spirit, will immediately show the presence of alkalis by a
precipitate, and the change which acids produce in blue
vegetable colours will prove their presence.           A bit of paper
tinged   with    litmus   put  into  the spirit, tincture  or syrup of
violets, into which are. poured a few drops of the spirit,
manifest immediately the presence of these acids. Severe
punishments inflicted on these fraudulent distillers, who
sacrifice to their avarice the health of their fellow-citizens,
will go a great way in preventing these frauds ; and they
would doubtless cease entirely if the duty were laid on the
product of the labour of the distillers, that                    is,
                                                         on the spirit,
or to be paid immediately from the malt or corn, as               done            is
in Bremen, where the distiller pays the duty at the mill, to
which he carries his corn to be ground for the use of his
distiller)', and thus       exempt from all constraint during the
                                   is
whole course of the operation.
   The only point which            have yet to consider
                                            I                  whether      is,
there does not exist         method to accelerate considerably the
                                      a
distillation without running any danger of experiencing
these bad effects.        To this cannot but answer in the af
                                               I
firmative you have only to substitute shallow caldrons in
                :
the room of deep ones           their diameter must be larger, and
                                        j
they must have            concave bottom.
                              a                    have made several
                                                           I
experiments with caldron constructed in this manner, and
                                  a
the result was always         purer spirit, and in
                                        a                greater quan
                                                                 a
tity, with      saving of ten-twelfths of fuel. The reason                              is
                is a a
this, that large surface of liquor being exposed to heat,
the liquor       heated in        more speedy and even manner in
                                          a
all its parts           less brisk and strong fire, and evaporates
                         by   a
with uncommon rapidity, and can neither contract an em-
pyreumatie taste, nor can much essential oil rise and mix
with the spirit, as the power of the fire must be greatly
inferior to that which           employed under
                                          is            common still,
                                                                 a
where the lower parts of the liquor experience              violent fire
                                                                       a
before the higher parts are sufficiently heated, and wherein
the liquor continues         longer time exposed to the action of
                                      a
the fire, in proportion as the evaporation proceeds more
slowly ;    and this diminution of heat            perhaps the reason
                                                            is
why more spirit          obtained, because some part of the finest
                              is
spirit cannot fail to evaporate when the distillation must be
          on         brisker fire but in this case
                    by   a                     5             unavoida-
                                                                     it   is
     necessary that the fire-place be constructed on the prin
Eushed
 ly
ciples above described.         For the same reasons           obvious,it   is
that  it    very profitable to effect the distillation in small cal
           is
drons, especially         they are of the common cvlindric form,
                              if
                                                X   ?              both

324        On the Distillation     of Spirits, &c. in tiolland.
both in regard to the quantity and quality of the spirit, and
also with respect to the fuel : you will not, for instance,
draw so good a spirit, and the same quantity, in a caldron
of eighty gallons, as in two of forty each; the latter will"
be emptied twice, and oftener, in the same time which is
necessary to empty the large caldron once, and with less
fuel, and thus the produce of these two small caldrons will
be double of that of a large one in a given time.         Before                  I
                I
conclude must make this observation, that it is extremely
easy to make the spirit appear less strong at the proof with
the hydrometer.       All bodies which are easily dissolved in
spirits, and augment their specific gravity, produce that
effect ; and the sulphurous acid possesses this property in a
peculiar degree.     Before you subject the spirit to the proof
with the hydrometer, you should endeavour to discover the
presence of this acid by the proofs above mentioned ; and
every distiller of fine liquors knows perfectly well, that as
soon as he mixes a little sugar with his liquor to sweeten                       it,
the hydrometer loses its effect       but
                                        ;      extremely difficult
                                                 it    is
to make      it
              appear stronger   than      actually
                                            it        at the proof
                                                                 is
with the hydrometer.        This end cannot be attained but by
mixing      with bodies of less specific gravity, such as ether,
            it
which, on account of its high price, will not be made use
of.   I  say, at the proof with the hydrometer           for this     ;          is
widely different from the phial proof, because, on mixing                        3
little oil with spirit so much diluted        water that no more
                                                      by
bubbles appear, they may be immediately made to reappear.
The petty innkeepers          Holland are extremely expert in
                              in
this trick    they commonly employ oil of olives, poppies,
                ;
nuts, or almonds, and          general all sorts of oils, which
                              in
do not give the spirit    abad taste.. These frauds are disco
vered      by
           diluting these spirits with     great quantity of wa
                                                 a
ter, when the oil immediately appears on the surface of the
liquid.    Before   I conclude,     shall here touch upon the
                                     I
question, Whether the residue of the distillation can serve
to nourish and fatten cattle       On analysing corn, we find
                                    ?
that  it consists of an earthy or mucilaginous and         saccha         a
rine matter, and of oil and salt. If we further consider, what
I  have already frequently mentioned, that         is'the saccha
                                                            if
rine matter which exclusively yields the brandy, and that
the mucilaginous and earthy matter, together with the salt,
remain untouched in the residue,            will not be doubted
                                                 it
that this mucilage with the salt cannot but be very nourish
ing. Experience has proved in Holland that this residue,
which      there called toefol-drank, possesses very nutritious
           is
virtues; the number of pigs which the distillers yearly
                                                                              draw-

             Figure    of the Orbits of the    new Planets.             325
 draw from Westphalia exceeding all belief. They are fat
 tened in a very short time for the use of the navy and mer
 chants, who employ them on board ships for the subsist
 ence of the seamen, who are hot supplied there with beef
 as they are in this kingdom, while other distillers fatten
 with this residue bullocks and cows ; and it is a circum
 stance worthy of notice, that cows fed with this residue
give a considerable quantity of milk. It is thus that the
Dutch distiller draws some profit from every thing ; -no
thing is lost with him, and this economy is in general the
cause of the low price of geneva.
     LVII.   Figure    of the Orbits of the new Planets.           By
                      Jerome de Lalande*.
 J- he  mean distance from the sun, of both, is 2*77j that of
the   sun being 1, which gives 95 millions of miles. (See
Plate VIII.)
         Piazzi   or Ceres, discovered      January    1, 1801.
                             ...
    Revolution 4 years 7 months 10 days.
   Mean longitude January 1, 1804                -       10*    11° 59'
   Annual motion             -          -        -         2    18   14
   Aphelion         -        - '        -        -       10     26 44
   Node         -            -                    -             216
                                                          093
                                 1                         2
   Equation of the orbit                -        -
   Eccentricity                                                0-097
   Inclination            -            -          -        0    10 37
        Oilers  or  Pallas,    discovered   March    28, 1802.
   Revolution 4 years 7 months 1 1 days.
   Mean longitude January 1, 1804                -        9!   29° 53'
   Annual motion             -          -        -        21811
   Aphelion         -        -          -               10       1    7
   Node           -          -          -        -        5    22   28
   Equation of the orbit               -         -        0    28   25
   Eccentricity            -                                 0-2463
   Inclination             -           -        -         0    34   39
          * From  the  Jmrnal   de Physique, Brumaire, an.   is.
                                  X  3                 LVIII.      Letter

                               [   326    ]
         LVIII.    Letter   to Mr. Arthur Aikin from
                           Dr. Thornton..
                                              May 20, J 80+.
 P—
        SIR,                      No. 1, Hind-street, Manchester-square.
  _L here is no man on earth           fonder of the liberty of the
 press   than I  am:   but  when    fools or blockheads presume to
 criticise, what was before a blessing becomes a nuisance,
 misleading for a certain time the public judgment, and
 wounding the honest feelings of authors. Like Linnaeus,
  I would have silently borne the scoffs and derisions of the
 mimics, as he calls them, of mankind : but when a man of
 your character in life stands publicly forward as the editor
 of a review, in which you accuse me of an ignorance the
 most gross, and endeavour to explain the manner, by a pro
 phetic vision, how I came to have invented an unheard of
 planet, openly declaring
                                 " that no astronomical book ever
 mentioned a satellite to Venus," I have esteemed it my duty
 to retort the accusation, and appeal to the candid decision of
 the public. I shall quote your own words : — " In imitation of
 the divines of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, who
 frequently treated their subjects first negatively and then
               he gives the systems of those philosophers who
 Eositively,
   ave formed what he deems erroneous opinions on the sub
ject. These are Dr. Darwin, Buffon, and Will. Whiston.
 Dr. Darwin's hypothesis of the original formation of suns,
 gives him an opportunity of laying before his readers a con
 cise view of astronomy, from which we learnt, to our inex
pressible surprise,
                       " that Venus as well as our earth has its
 satellite,  and  that  this satellite of Venus was discovered in
 the last century."      Had Dr. Thornton claimed this disco
very   himself,  the authority of so great a man would have been
 indisputable ; and we must have admitted it as a fact, even
 though the new secondary planet should still continue to
 elude the sight of Dr. Herschel, of the astronomer royal,
 and of every other astronomer in the world.            But as we are
 told that the discovery was made in the last century, it must
 have been known to others as well as to himself; and as no
 trace of it is to be found in any professed treatise of astro
 nomy, we may be allowed to doubt on the subject, and to
 suspect that Dr. Thornton has asserted what is not true.
 Long did we puzzle ourselves with attempting to investi
 gate the source of the error ; and so continually did it agi
 tate our minds, that for some time we were deprived of our
 nightly rest ; and we know not what might have been the
 effect upon our health and spirits, or whether we should
 ever have been equal to the severe task of writing t his review,

                    Letter to     Mr. Arthur Aikin                       327
if we   had not happily been freed from our anxiety by a kind
of vision between sleeping and waking, which, on account
of the solemn mysterious stillness by which it was accom
panied, is in our estimation entitled to more credit than the
frantic ravings of an intoxicated Delphic prophetess.     Wc
therefore do not hesitate to pronounce with oracular confi
dence, that once upon a time Dr. Thornton, happening to
be left alone in the parlour of a friend, took up a book on
astronomy, which lay by chance in the window, or on a
table, and opened it at the chapter where an account is given
of the discovery made soon after the invention of the tele
scope, that Venus, in different parts of her orbit, has dif
ferent phases, like those of the moon ; and that, unwilling
to lose the knowledge which he had thus incidentally ob
tained, as soon as he got home he carefully entered it in his
immense com?non-piace look * ; but through the natural
                                                                  iiifirmity
   * Having
               long had the pleasure of Dr. Thornton's acquaintance, we
think it justice to that gentleman to state, that he is icmarkcdby those
who know him for the strong retentive powers of his memory, having
written "the whole of his Philosophy of Medicine and of Politics without
the least memorandum paper; and that, trusting entirely to his memory,
he never had a common-place book in his life ; nor even when lecturing
I'iva 11 e does he refer to any notes whatever.           We do not state this
 from any obection wc hnve to common-place-books, for we think the use
of them might sometimes keep people from committing themselves Such
  louse as this deserves any mine but that of criticism.     We are confident
 not only that Mr. Aikin did not write this review, but that it must, by
 some accident, have escaped his correcting eye ; for we have also the plea
 sure of his acquaintance, and wc know that he cannot calumniate, or
 commit wiili.igly an act of injustice.      Can the following be considered
 as ingenuous fair criticism ?— " But wc arc reminded that we have unr
 accounubly overlooked the capital beauty of the publication ; and that its
 merits, and its acccptablcness with the public, rest chiefly on the- cxccl-
 lence, the splendour, and magnificence, of the engravings,           We have
 all along been sensible of it,  and in this respect arc not at all disposed to
 be sp-;ring of our praije.      Our praise, however,   is not needed.     The
 smaller uncoloured botanical plates in genpra.1, but especially the larger
 coloured ones, do the highest honour to the artists., and will be lasting
 monuments of the fine taste and masterly execution which char.xierite
 the British nation in the present age,     But when Dr. Thornton claims       a
  share of the fame, we arc reminded of farce, which,        in our play-going
  days, aflbrde
              I   us much amusement:        it a called,
                                                   is   if we mistake not, A
  Peep behind the Curtain."      Dr. Darwin^ speaking of these plates, in his
  Phytologia, says: " I    beg leave to_ recommend to the puolic the superb
  picturesque botanical plates of Dj\ Thornton, which   I  suppose to have i.o
  equal.''   Now are the public under no obligation to Dr. Thornton, who
  risks his fortunein   order to atTord them gratification
                                                         ?    When were pic
  turesque botanical plates published before ^]s not this the improvement
                                                   ?
  of Dr. Thornton ?     And who are the artists who have executed thene        ?
  Mr. Rcina^le, jsioc'ute of the Royal Academy, and Mr. Henderson.
                                     X  4                                  Ate

328                    Letter to         Mr. Arthur Aikin
infirmity of his memory, and the habitual confusion of his
ideas, he mistook the appearance for the reality, and has ever
since believed that Venus has a moon, instead of being in
some respects like one."
   Without dwelling on the observations which you make
on my work in general, I shall confine myself to the present
point, as you accuse me of having published a direct false
hood.
   Had my work been professedly on astronomy, I should
have given my authorities ; but as the fact denied in your
Review was only added as a. note, and incidentally men
tioned, I though^ myself excused till caHed upon to vindi
cate my own veracity from such animadversions. My astro
nomical observations were extracted from Bonnet's Contem
plation de la Nature, vol. iv. part 1.    This author says
(page 7),
          " Venus and the earth have each a satellite," and
adds in a note the following proofs in support of what he
advances       *   :
   "A   great many doubts have been started in regard to the
existence of the satellite of Venus, and it has been suspected
that the accounts given of it by different observers arose
chiefly from some optical illusion.    But those who take the
trouble to consult the article Venus in the Supplement to
the French Encyclopédie, vol. xvii, will entertain no doubt
of the existence of this planet. They will find there an ob-
Are    these gentlemen botanical painters ? No. They must then have
been   done  under his eye and direction, and Dr. Thornton in this way
participates in their fame. — Edit.
    * On a élevé bien des doutes sur l'existence du satellite de Vénus;
on a soupçonné que ce xrui en avoit été rapporté par ditférens observateurs,
teno t principalement à quelqu'illusion d'optique.      Mais, si l'on prend la
peine de consulter l'article Venus du Simplement à T Encyclopédie de
Taris, torn, xvii, on ne doutera guercs de l'existence du satellite dont il
s'agit. On y verra l'observation du grand Cassini de 1686, celles de Mr.
Short de 1740, de Mr. Montaigne de I761, du P, la Grange de la même
année, de Mr. Montbaron de 1765.         C'avoir. été sous la forme d'un petit
croissant que le satellite s'étoit montre aux trois premiers observateurs que
je viens de citer.    Mr. Short avoit été si touché de sa propre découverte,
qu'il l'avoit fait graver sur son cachet avec cette devise, Tandem apparvit.
Le célèbre Lambert, qui a comparé entr'clles toutes les observations de ce
satellite, a montré leur accord.    Essai d'une Théorie du Satellite de Vénus,
 No veaux Mémoires de l'Académie de Birlin, an. 1773.          Suivant les cal
 culs de cet astronome, la révolution de ce satellite autour de Vénus se-
 roit à-peu-près de onze jours.     Il avoit cru qu'on pourroit l'appercevoir
 sur le disque du soleil, le 1 de Juin 1777, parce que Vénus devoit passer
alors très près de cet astre ; mais on ne               l'y
                                                      pas découvert.
                                                              a         M. de
 Mairan, qui ne paroissoit pas douter de l'existence de ce petit astre, avoit
indiqué les causes de      la   rareté   de   ses apparitions.    Mem.   de   l'Acad.   de
Paris, 1761,
                       l                                                      servation

                            from Dr. Thornton.                         329
•ervation      of the   great Cassini in 1686 ; those of Mr. Short
in 1 740 ; of M. de Montaigne in 1 761 ; of father La Grange
the same year; and of M. de Montbaron in 1765.                         The
planet appeared to the first three of these observers under
the form of a small crescent.               Mr. Short was so overjoyed
at the discovery he had made, that he caused it to be en
graved on his seal, with the motto Tandem apparuit.                    The
celebrated Lambert, who tompared all the observations of
this planet, has shown how far they agree: Essai d'une
 Tkeorie du Satellite de Venus, in the New Memoirs of the
Academy of Berlin 1773.                According to the calculations of
this astronomer, the revolution of this satellite around Venus
is nearly eleven days.             He thought he should perceive it on
the sun's disk June 1st, 1777,                 because Venus would then
pass very near that body ; but it              was not observed.    M. de
Mairan, who seems not to have                   doubted the existence of
this small star, pointed out the               causes why it so rarely ap
 peared." — Mem. de I' Acad, de Paris 1762.
    Bonnet, in his Philosophical and Critical Enquiries rela
tive to Christianity, calls Messrs. Mairan and Cassini the
first astronomers of our times. To say much of Cassini
would be an insult to the philosophical world.                 The life of
the illustrious Lambert is in every person's hands*, and the
 other names are well known to astronomers.
     In the Encyclopcedia Britannica, the reviewer, if unac
 quainted with the French, would have found a sufficiently
                         '
 Jong account : — Cassini, besides the discovery of the spots
 on the disk of Venus, by which he was enabled to ascertain
 her revolution on an axis, had also a view of her satellite
 or moon, of which he gives the following account : —
 " A. D. 1686, Aug. 28th, at 15 minutes after four in the
 morning, looking at Venus with a telescope of 34 feet, I
 saw, at the distance of one-third of her diameter eastward,
 a luminous appearance, of a shape not well defined, that
 seemed to have the same phase with Venus, which was then
 gibbous on the western side.               The diameter of this phaeno-
 menon was nearly equal to a fourth part of the diameter of
 Venus.         I observed it attentively for a quarter of an hour,
 and having left off looking at it for four or five minutes, I
 saw it no more; but day-light was then advanced.                     I had
 seen a like phenomenon which resembled the phase of
 Venus, Jan. 25th, A. D. 1672, from 52 minutes after six
 in the morning to two minutes after seven, when the
     *
       Our readers will find in the pages ihat immediately follow the pre-
  rent article, a life of this celebrated philosopher.— Edit.
                                                                brightness

 330                Letter   to    Mr. Arthur Aikin
  brightness of the twilight made it disappear.        Venus was
 then horned, and this phenomenon, the diameter whereof
 was nearly a fourth part of the diameter of Venus, was of
 the same shape.       It was distant'from the southern horn of
 Venus,     a diameter   of the planet, on the western side.    In
 these two observations I was in doubt whether it was not a
 satellite of Venus of such a consistence as not to be very well
 fitted to reflect the light of the sun, and which, in magni
 tude, bore nearly the same proportion to Venus as the moon
 does to the earth, being at the same distance from the sun
 and the earth as Venus was, the phases whereof it resembled.
 Notwithstanding all the pains I took in looking for it after
 these two observations, and at divers other times, in order
 to complete so considerable a discovery, I was never able to
 see it.    I therefore suspend my judgment of this phaeno-
 menon . If it should return often, there will be these two
 epochas, which, compared with other observations, may
 be of use to find out the periodical time of its return, if it
 can be reduced to any rule."
     ' A similar observation was made by Mr. Short on the
 23d of October 1740, about sunrise.         He used at this time
 a reflecting telescope of about 16" 5 inches, which magnified
 between 50 and 60 times, with which he perceived a small
 star at about 10' distance from Venus, as measured by the
micrometer; and, putting on a magnifying power of 240
 times, he found the star put on the same appearance with
 the planet herself. Its diameter was somewhat less than a
third of that of the primary ; but its light was less vivid,
though exceedingly sharp and well defined. The same ap
pearance" continued with a magnifying power of 140 times.
A line, passing through the centre of Venus and             it,
                                                             made
an angle of 8° or 20° with the equator
            1                                  :he saw     several
                                                           it
times that morning for about the space of an hour, after
which he lost sight of       it,
                               and could never find    again.
                                                      it
 '    From this time the satellite of Venus, though very fre
quently looked for    by  astronomers, could never be perceived   ;
which made   it    generally believed that Cassini and Mr. Short
had been mistalcen   :    but as the transits of the planet over
the sun in 1761 and 1769 seemed to promise           greater cer
                                                      a
tainty of finding    it,  the satellite was very carefully looked
for    by almost every one who had an opportunity of seeing
the transit, but generally without success.       Mr. Baudouin,
at Paris, had provided       a telescope of 25 feet, in order to
observe the passage of the planet over the sun, and to look
for its satellite
                :    but he did not succeed either at that time,
or in   the  months   of April and May following.     Mr. Mon
                                                           taigne,

                     from Dr. Thornton.                    831
taigne, however, one of the members of the society of
Limoges, had letter success. On the 3d of May 1761, he
perceived, about half an hour after nine at night, at the
distance of 20' from Venus, a small crescent, with the
homs pointing the same way as those of the planet ; the
diameter of the former being about one-fourth of that of
the latter ; and a line drawn from Venus to the satellite
making an angle with the vertical of about 20° towards the
south.      But though he repeated this observation several
times, some doubt remained whether it was not a small
star.   Next day he saw the same star at the same hour,
distant from Venus about half a minute, or a minute more
than before, and making with the vertical an angle of 10°
below on the north side ; so that the satellite seemed to
have described an arc of about 30°, whereof Venus was the
centre, and the radius 20/.     The two following nights were
hazy,    so  that Venus  could only be seen ; but on the 7th of
May, at the same hour as before, he saw the satellite again
above Venus, and on the north side, at the distance of 25
or 2G' upon a line which made an angle of about 45°, with
the vertical towards the right hand. The light of the satel
lite was always very weak, but it had the same phasis with
its primary, whether viewed together with it in the field of
his telescope or by itself. The telescope was nine feet long,
and magnified an object between forty and fifty times, but
had no micrometer ; so that the distances above mentioned
are only from estimation.
    ' In four days it went through 155°. Then, as 1 55° is to
four days or 96 hours, so is 360 to a fourth number, which
gives g days 7 hours for the whole length of the synodical
revolution.      Hence Mr. Baudouin concluded that the di
stance of this satellite was about sixty of the scmidiamcters
of Venus from its surface ; that its orbit cut the ecliptic
nearly at right angles ; had its ascending node in 22 of
Virgo ; and was in its greatest northern digression on the
 7th, at nine at night ; and he supposed that at the transit of
 the primary the satellite would be seen accompanying it. By
 a subsequent observation, however, on the 11th of May, he
 corrected his calculation of the periodical time of the satel
 lite, which he now enlarged to twelve days ; in consequence
 of which he found that it would not pass over the disk of
 the sun along with its primary, but go at the distance of
 above 20' from his southern limb ; though, if the time of its
 revolution should be fifteen hours longer than twelve days,
 it might then pass over the sun after Venus was gone off.
 fie imagined the reason why this satellite was so dffficult to

 332     Letter to   Mr. Arthur Aikinfrom Dr.             Thornton.
 be observed might be, that one part of its globe was crusted
 over with spots, or otherwise unfit to reflect the light of the
 sun. By comparing the periodical time of this satellite with
that of our moon, he computed the quantity of matter in,
Venus to be nearly equal to that in our earth ; in which
case it must have considerable influence in changing the
obliquity of the ecliptic, the latitudes and longitudes of
stars,   &c.'
    You, sir, whom I understand to be engaged in the Netv
 Cyclopcedia of Dr. Rees, may perhaps favour the world with
a refutation of what has been here advanced ; but what
ever may be the disputes of the learned in astronomy, I shall
hope in future for less censure in adopting what my feeble
intellect may at the present period conceive to be the strong
est side.
    I trust I have stated authority enough from other astro
nomers for quoting that of Bonnet; and with extreme ea
gerness I retire from controverting what another is pleased
to think and say of me, willingly wishing the same fcrget-
fulness of the insults offered me as the author is willing to
ascribe to me on other occasions.
    Sir, in concluding, I cannot for a moment allow myself
to think that you were actually the writer of the review in
question; but as editor I cannot help addressing you, as
permitting so severe and, I trust, unfair a criticism, as your
work contains, beginning with,
             " To turn     the penny, once a wit
             Upon a curious fancy hit ;
             Hung out a board, on which he boasted,
             * Dinner for
                             threepence, boiled and roasted !'
             The hungry      read, and in they trip,
             With eager     eye and smacking lip :
             * Here,
  i                    bring this boiled and roasted, pray.'
             Enter potatoes, dressed each way :
             All stared  and rose, the house forsook,
             The dinner cursed,     and kicked the cook.
             My landlord found,      poor Patrick Kelly,
             There is no jesting with the belly."
                     I  have the honour to be, sir,
                                      With    great respect,
                                 Your obedient humble        servant,
                                         Robert John Thornton.
                                                               LIX. Life

                           [    333   J                 %
         LUC. Life of     John Henry Lambert*.
If amongst     the literati, whose merits in the sciences have
eternalized their name, those that have acquired their eru
dition without the assistance of others, merely by dint of
their own exertions and industry, be in a superior degree
entitled to the notice of the learned ; then the man of whose
life, character, and writings, we are now going to give an
account, deserves undoubtedly, in preference to all others,
to be introduced to the acquaintance of our scientific read
ers ; especially as he overcame the most arduous difficulties
merely through the unassisted application of his uncommon
genius.
    Lambert was born August 29, 1728, at Miihlhausen, a
small confederate totwn in Sundgau.          His father, Lueas
Lambert, whose ancestors had emigrated from France when
the edict of Nantes was recalled, was by trade a tailor, and
 had great difficulty to maintain himself and his family by
means of his industry.        His limited circumstances deter
mined him to bring up his son for his own profession, and
 to give him an education conformable to his future situation
 in life, without, however, totally neglecting the improve
 ment of his mind.      He frequented the public school, at the
expense of the corporation, till he was twelve years old, and
 distinguished himself so eminently from the rest of his
 school-fellows, that his father was at last, by the repeated
 intercessions of his instructors, and his invincible aversion
 from the trade for which he was intended, prevailed upon
 to permit him to study theology.       But being soon arrested
 in the prosecution of his scientific career by a total want of
 the requisite means, he was at length necessitated to assist
 his father in his profession.
     Whilst he was occupied in this manner, he read with
 uncommon eagerness all Latin books of which he could
 obtain possession ; and happening in the course of his read
 ings to meet with an old work on mathematics, his decided
  predilection for this science manifested itself soon in a most
  striking manner by the ardour with which he studied       it,
                                                             and
  the complete knowledge he acquired        bymeans of it  of the
 computation of almanacs, notwithstanding the numerous
  errors he discovered in      it,
                                 without being able to correct
  them. The occupations incumbent upon him in the day,
  obliged him to devote great part of the night to the prosecu-
               •
                   From the German Museum, vol. i:i.
                                                                  tion

  334             Life of John Henry Lamhert.
 tion of his studies : and the money necessary for the pur
  chase of candles, with which he could not expect to be sup
 plied by his parents, he procured by the sale of small draw
 ings, which he delineated whilst he, with his foot, rocked his
 infant sister.    Some workmen being employed, one day, in
 repairing  his father's house, this afforded him an opportunity
 of putting several questions respecting the practical applica
 tion of some principles he had found in his book to the
 builder, who was induced thereby to gratify him by the loan
 of a mathematical work which he possessed. Words are
 inadequate to express the joy which he felt on discovering
 that this work was completely calculated to enable him to
 correct the errors which he had found in his own book. He
 now learned from these two books, without any additional
 assistance, the rudiment3 of arithmetic and geometry.
    His enthusiastic zeal for the sciences prompted at length
 several men of learning to instruct him gratis, and they had
 the satisfaction of seeing him improve with a rapidity that
 exceeded their most sanguine expectations.            Thus ge
 nerously supported, he acquired in a short time a knowledge
 of philosophy and the oriental languages, and learned to
 write a very elegant hand, which procured him the place of
 a copyist in the chancery of his native town, whence he re
 moved in his fifteenth year to the iron-works of a Mr. de la
 Lampe, situated in the vicinity of his native place, where
 he was appointed book-keeper, and obtained an opportunity
 of learning the French language, in which his father could
 not have him instructed on account of his poverty.
    Two years after, Mr. Iselin, of Basle, who then conducted
 the publication of a newspaper, engaged him in the capa
 city of amanuensis, and in a short time conceived for him
the most tender friendship, of .which he gave him nume
rous proofs as long as he lived. This situation afforded
Lambert an opportunity of making further progress in the
belles lettres as well as in philosophy and mathematics ; and
his passionate love of the latter science frequently made him
neglect his regular occupations.         In the year 1748 he was
recommended by his patron to baron Salis, president of the
Swiss confederacy, as tutor to his children.        The excellent
library which he found in the house of his newpatron,and the
leisure hours with which he was indulged, together with the
instructive intercourse which he had with all the members of
that illustrious family, and with a great number of scien
tific strangers who visited the" baron, proved to him excel*
lent means of satisfying his thirst for knowledge, and en
abled him to become more familiarly acquainted with astro
                                                           nomy

                                                     *
                  Life of John Henry Lambert.                 335
 nomy and all other branches of the science of mathematics,
as well as with physic, physiology, theology ; yea, even with
jurisprudence, eloquence, poetry, and the Greek, Latin,
 French, Italian and German languages.            His uncommon
 talent for mathematics now displayed itself in a most con
 spicuous and decided manner.        Pascal's example stimulated
 him to invent an accounting machine, whilst the numerous
 occasions he had for an accurate chronometer, actuated him
 to invent a time-piece    of mercury which went twenty-seven
 minutes without causing the slightest error. Here he also
 invented his logarithmic accounting-scales, and was like
 wise, by the error which one of his pupils had committed
 in the solution of an algebraic proposition, occasioned to
 turn his mind to the invention of a machine for designing
  perspective drawings.      He surveyed and made a drawing of
  the country   around   Coire, and performed numerous physi
 cal observations in the mountains of that country.             In
  1 752 he began to keep a regular journal of his daily occupa
  tions, which he uninterruptedly continued to the end of his
  life, and which is highly esteemed by the learned.       A lite
  rary society   being  at that time  instituted by the most emi
  nent men of learning at Coirc, he was chosen one of its
  first members. In 1753 he was elected member of the Hel
  vetic society, the Transactions of which contain a great many
  mathematical and physical treatises, communicated by him.
  After having resided eight years at Coire, he repaired with
  his pupils in 1 756 to the university of Gottingen, where
  he staid till autumn in 1757; when he, after having been
  previously nominated a corresponding member of the so
  ciety of sciences at that place, removed to Utrecht, where
   he stayed a twelvemonth with his pupils. He made, during
   his stay at Utrecht, several excursions to Leyden, Hague
   and Amsterdam, on one of which he became acquainted
   with the celebrated Muschenbrock, who at first treated him
   as a tyro in the science of physics, which occasioned a very
   laughable conversation, whilst he on another published his
   first work : De la route de la lumiere par les airs.     In au
   tumn 1758 he went with his pupils to Paris, where he
   gained the esteem and friendship of S. Alembert and Mes
   sier, and from thence to Marseilles, where he first lighted
   upon the idea of his perspective, which in the year follow
   ing was published at Zurich. He returned to Coire by way
   of Turin, and in the following year to Miihlhausen,
   whence he made an excursion to Augsburg, where he be
    came acquainted with the celebrated philosophical instru
    ment-maker, Brander, who afterwards was of great service
                                                                 to

  336               Life of John Henry Lambert:
 to him in executing his ideas,     and where he also published
   his Photometry; enriching thereby mixed mathematics with
. a new branch.      In the same year he was also elected mem
   ber of the electoral Bavarian society of sciences, on condi
   tion that he should give them his assistance, and transmit
   tracts for their Transactions.    He faithfully performed his
   engagement with that society; but nevertheless experienced
   a great deal of ill treatment    by them, and even was de
   prived of his salary, which prompted him to return his
  diploma.     He now visited Erlangen, where he published
  his letters upon the construction of the universe, as well as
  his treatise upon the principal qualities of the orbits of the
  comets.     In 1763 he went to Leipzig, where he in the
  year following published his new Organon.          On an excur
  sion he made in the same year to Berlin, he was introduced
  to Frederic II., who upon the first interview was convinced
  that he fully deserved the admiration of all men of science,
  and ordered him to be elected a regular member of the academy
  of Berlin ; which appointment afforded him full leisure to de
  vote himself entirely to his favourite sciences, and to com
  municate to the world the fruits of his lucubrations.
      A great number of Lambert's treatises are to be found in
  theTransactions of the literary societies of Leipzig and Berlin ;
 and as many have been printed separately,      all these treatises
 bear the stamp of an eminent genius, who had derived his
 knowledge more from his own reflections than from books,
 and always found means of placing the subject of which he
 treated ina   point of view in which   it   had not been consi
dered before.
   His principal metaphysical work     ishis Architectonic. He
 composed this elaborate work with       aview of showing the
 application of logic in metaphysics, and of evincing the
 possibility of carrying itto algebraic evidence.
   Most of his mathematical treatises were published            by
 himself, in three volumes, under the title of Beytrdge zum
 Gebrauch der Mathematic und deren Anwendung, in which
almost every branch of mathematics has been enriched with
additions and important improvements.
   Frederic II. largely added to his pension          short time
                                                      a
before he died  ; and after his death evinced in the strongest
manner his sincere concern at the loss which the sciences
suffered  by  it.
   Lambert was as universally esteemed for his amiable cha
racter, as he was respected for his scientific merits.       The
manner in which he had been educated had, indeed, left in-'
delible traces of his originally low situation     life, which
                                                  in
                                                    manifested

                  Life of John Henry Lambert.                   33?
 manifested themselves ,bv his timid and awkward conduct,
 by the tasteless disharmony in his dress, the furniture of his
 apartments, by loud laughter, low jests and antic gestures,
 by his predilection for glaring colours, coarse viands, and
 sweet wines, as well as by the pleasure he took in frequently
 mixing with low companies, in joining in their political dis
 putes, and laughing aloud at their coarse witticisms.          But
 these defects were amply over-balanced by a most excellent
 heart and uncommon mental perfections. A real virgin
 modesty and bashfulness, and the most complete chastity
 and sobriety, an honest and frank manner of thinking, and
 a decided aversion from all kinds of double dealing andfalse-
 hood; a manifest antipathy against all injustice; a prompt
 and spontaneous reparation of every injury he thought to
  have committed ; the most anxious desire to avoid every
 cause of dissension and dispute ; an inexhaustible patience
 and forbearance ; a total freedom from nioroseness and ill-
 humour j a sincere promptitude to instruct those who
 sought his society from good motives ; the most active com-
              whenever he beheld wretchedness — all these qua-
  fiassion,
    ities composed in him a harmonious whole.             A glowing
  devotion, which frequently rose to a kind of pious rapture,
  a lively sense of his dependence on God, and of the impcr-^
  lection of our knowledge of the Supreme Being, and un
  affected humility and veneration towards       it,  animated him
  from his early youth to his grave, notwithstanding the
  change which, in the latter part of his life, took place in
  some of his religious notions, and afforded him an uninter
  rupted serenity of mind, frequently suffusing his counte
  nance with  a     srlow of heavenly beauty.      He felt the most
  profound contempt for works that were levelled against the
  sacred cause of religion, whilst works that ahly defended        it
  were read  by    him with rapture. He was real cosmopolite,
                                               a
  and animated with univeisal love; but he showed as litlle
   individual attachment to any one as predilection for any
   spot; not even his native country excepted; nor did he
   betray any mark of the Swiss national character. He took,
   however, a     lively interest in the fate of those whom he
   esteemed. When professor Sulzer was dangerously ill, Lam
   bert wept the only tear which he ever was seen to shed. Fie
   delighted in assisting young men of talents, and in contri-
   butintr, to their improvement.
        Unbiassed by    vanity and flatter)-, he judged with impar
   tiality  both  of   himself and others. But the habitude of
   speaking    as decidedly and freely of his own merits and de-
•
    fects as of those of others, made him frequently appear         a
        No. "2. May 1601.           -Y                        boaster.

338              Life of John Henry Lambert.
boaster to those who did not sufficiently know him. He was*
wedded, as it were, to his opinions, and relinquished them
with    great reluctance, when tenable no longer.      He ge
nerally judged correctly   in his own sphere: whilst out  oi' it,
when men and business were the objects of conversa
tion, his judgment was frequently glaringly erroneous, and
oftentimes even destitute of common sense ; either, because
lie neglected to observe men in their actions, and the course
of business, in their real situation, or because his being ac
customed to analyse, incapacitated him from discerning by
 intuition.
    His conduct exactly corresponded with his manner of
 thinking.    He proposed to himself certain mles, of the pro
 priety and justness of which he was convinced, and ob
 served them as strictly as the rule of arithmetic in calcu
lating.     Hehcc, nothing could affect the calmness of his
mind, or divert him in the slightest degree from the pursuit
of his studies. His diligence and assiduity were, perhaps,
 never excelled, or even equalled by any man ; though he
never manifested the least sign of that uneasiness which is
so common with people of an active mind, and involved in
a multiplicity of occupations.      His mind was constantly
 unruffled.
    He generally was at his writing-desk from five o'clock in
the morning till noon, and from two o'clock in the after
noon till midnight,       without indulging himself in anv
kind of recreation, a solitary walk on a fine day excepted.
The most indifferent occurrence led him to mathematical or
philosophical analysts; to which he gave himself up so
completely, that no object whatever could make the least
impression upon him.       When he happened to be overtaken
by a shower of rain, on a walk, he calculated, whilst run
ning, which was the shortest and driest wav.        Several of
his treatises owe their existence to incidents of this nature.
Even in the management of his recoivomical concerns every
thing was conducted with mathematical exactness.       When-
everhe happened to speak in company of metaphysical or
mathematical subjects, he took not the slightest notice of
the surrounding persons ; send his discourses were real dis
sertations, in which not the least leap or chasm could be
discovered, as he always represented his ideas in that order
in which they arose in his mind, —and when he was inter
rupted, resumed his discourse at the exact point where ha>
had stopped.
   Considering his ardent and indefatigable diligence, it is
very natural that he should have acquired a profound know
                                                          ledge

                    Life of John Henry Lambert.                 839
  ledge    of several sciences. He was thoroughly acquainted
 with    the theological system of his age, and even well versed
 in the oriental languages.       He had also acquired a consi
 derable knowledge of jurisprudence; but logic, metaphysics,
 and mathematics, were the leading subjects of his lucubra
 tions. He was uncommonly strong in logic, and was guided
 by its rules not only in his scientific pursuits, but even in
 common life. He was extremely profound and acute in the
metaphysical analysis.        He meditated upon the plan of a
 method of treating all simple notions with the same acute-
 ness and precision, as the notion of quantity is treated-in
 mathematics.        His manner of treating every subject was
 the same which he describes in his Organon.             He com
 mitted to paper every accidental idea that related thereto ;
 arranged the materials, he collected in this manner, after
 the usual logical rules; he then endeavoured        to fill up all
 chasms; examined other books, especially vocabularies, in
 order to collect the whole extension of the notion, and
 finally revised the subject after a logical table, which he
              in the Leipzig Transactions. Mathematics were,
    owever, the principal subject of his meditations and re
Eublished
 searches.     The astonishing greatness of his genius mani
 fested itself particularly in the facility with which he re
 duced to an easy construction the results of extensive and
 intricate computations.       It clearly appears by his cosmolo-
 gical letters, and his computations relative to the supposed
 satellite of Venus, how easy it was for. him to abstract a
theory from a few cases or dates, and to carry it to a high
degree of probability and completeness.
     But, having derived all his knowledge almost entirely
from himself, it was extremely difficult for him to compre
hend any thing suggested by others, if he did not light
upon it of his own accord. Hence, it was easier for him
to invent, than to judge rightly of the ideas of others.
     His memory was uncommonly faithful in matters that re
lated to his favourite sciences ; but very indifferent in others.
He was intimately acquainted with the history of these
sciences, their epoch.is, and the great men who had formed
them ; though he was little acquainted with history in ge
neral.
     He was decidedly averse from composing a system, be
cause he did not think that our knowledge is capable of
being formed into a complete whole.            He firmly believed
that almost every individual had more principles of his own,
which depended on his situation ; and that in cases of col-
                                 Y  2                        lision

340    Method   of giving     to Cotton and   Linen Thread
lision the final determination rarely was the effect of reason,
but generally of other decisive powers.
    He died Sept. 25, 1777, of a decline, after having ren
dered to the sciences services that will be recollected with
gratitude by the latest posterity.                       P. W.
LX.  Addition to a Memoir on the Method of giving to
  Cotton and Linen Thread the Adrianople Red, and other
 jixed Colours.     By   J.   M. Haussman*.
 JL o give to cotton and linen thread all kinds of durable co
lours, nothing is necessary but to fix on these threads, in
any manner whatever, more or less alumine, after having
applied to them a slight stratum of oil. The complete suc
cess of the result, however, depends on certain modifica
tions to be observed in the processes.
   The numerous trials which I made in dyeing had so much
familiarised me with experiments on a small scale, that I at
last never failed. It was only after I published my memoir
on maddering inserted in the Annalesde Chimie-f, that I ex
perienced any difficulties in the application of oil when ope
rating on a larger scale. Linseed oil, which had always given
ine amilky mixture in limited proportions with alkaline solu
tion, then speedily separated when I wished to make a larger
provision, and under these circumstances the impregnation
of the skains became impossible. The case was the same
with all the fat oils: fish oil, however, will remain in
mixture for a considerable time; but its" odour is too dis
agreeable.
   To remedy the inconvenience     of the separation of oil in
the alkaline solution of alumine, I had recourse to drying
oils; that is to say, oil boiled with metallic oxides. Lin
seed oil boiled with minium, ceruse, or litharge, by means of
water to prevent combustion, dissolvesa considerable portion
of the oxide of lead, and will keep mixed with the alkaline
solution of alumine, under the milky form, the whole
time necessary for the impregnation of the skains.          By
employing     this mixture in  proper proportions,  and in the
manner I have indicated in my memoir, following strictly
in other respects the process such as I have described     one
                                                             it^
cannot fail to obtain beautiful and lasting colours. However,
notwithstanding the simplicity of this process,     cannot re-
                                                     I
          * From   the Amialei de Chimit, No. 144.
         f   See Philosophical Magazine, vol. xii.
                                                         commend

          the Adr'uutople     Red, and other fixed Colours.                   341
commend the use of          it,
                             because      exposed mc to the danger
                                            it
of   aconflagration in the following maimer              :
    With view to discover whether red cotton, which had
           a
not the requisite fixity, could acquire          it   by
                                                      impregnating             it
with an alkaline solution of alumine, with excess of boiled
linseed oil, and drying           it,
                                 and then boiling             very long
                                                             it   a
time in bran water, mixed the alkaline solution of alumine
                        1
in the proportions of an eighth,            twelfth, and
                                             a                 sixteenth
                                                                  a
part  of  boiled  linseed oil.      then immersed
                                        I              in  this  mixture
some dozens of skains of dyed cotton, which, after being
dried in the open air for whole day the preceding summer,
                                  a
were placed under the window of my cabinet, on                    straw-
                                                                      a
bottomed chair. Being that day indisposed,                 went to bed
                                                             I
at seven in the evening, without any uneasiness in regard to
my cotton.       My children, about an hour after, went into
my cabinet to look for some sheets of paper, and observed
in- the cotton neither heat nor any smell of combustion. All
the workmen of the manufactory were in                    state of pro
                                                             a
found sleep, wheu one of the watchmen of the bleach-
field, seeing my cabinet all illuminated, called out " Fire 1"
and awaked us between twelve and one o'clock in the
morning.       My sons,. knowing that was not able to get
                                                 I
out of bed, and unwilling to lose time in searching for the
key, burst open the door of the cabinet, which                  an unin
                                                                  is
habited and detached building.             They entered, notwith
standing the thick smoke and insupportable odour of the
oily combustion, and found the cotton and chair so much
on fire, that the flame, which rose to the ceiling, had already
broken the glass and burnt the frame of the window. They
immediately concluded, that this fire could arise only from
the spontaneous inflammation of the cotton impregnated
and covered with boiled oil, since no person had entered
the cabinet either with          lighted pipe, or with any other
                                   a
matters in     astate of combustion.          Observing that several
persons   in  the  manufactory     refu«cd   to assent to this expla
nation,   I  again impregnated      some   dozens   of skains of old
cotton, which had been badly dyed, in the same manner as
the burnt cotton.       I then dried them in the open air and             ;
seeing  that  the   weather  threatened rain,       exposed them on
                                                     I
a  rope, extended above the court, desiring one of the night
watchmen to look at the cotton every quarter of an hour,
and to throw       itinto
                        a   bucket of water as soon as he should
see  itbegin to become heated.           But as the man could not
conceive the possibility of the spontaneous inflammation of
cotton, as he himself acknowledged, he went his rounds
w ithout so much as looking towards the court.               At length,
                                    V   3                      however,

342      Method of giving to Cotton and Linen Thread
however, he came back to rest himself, and, by the great
light he perceived; was convinced of what I had foretold
would be the consequence of neglect. Finding that the
cotton and rope were both burnt, he took the bucket of
water to extinguish the supporters, which were already both
on fire.
    About fifteen years ago, with a view of preventing
similar dangers, I made experiments at Colmar on spon
taneous inflammations.       I mentioned the probability of
fires being occasioned by warm bodies, or bodies tending to
be heated, when deposited inconsiderately in places to which
fire may be communicated. The bodies of this kind, which
I mentioned to those present, who were not sufficiently ac
quainted with the phaenomena of spontaneous inflamma
tions, are roasted coffee, cacao, fermenting plants, oint
ments made with metallic oxides, inclosed quite hot in
wooden barrels, bales of raw cotton, as well as linen or flax
heaped on each other at a warm temperature, and even linen
which has been ironed and put warm into drawers ; in a
word, all bodies covered with oil, such as silk and skains
of cotton. I showed them besides, that in all cases where
the oxygen of the atmosphere is rapidly attracted and ab
sorbed by any cause whatever, the caloric, which served as
a base to the oxygen and gave it the qualities of gas, or
elastic properties, is disengaged in such abundance, that if
the absorbing bodies are susceptible     of taking fire, or if
combustible Dodies are in the neighbourhood, a spontaneous
inflammation will take place.                  »
    To prove to the persons present, to whom chemical ex
periments were not familiar, the theory of these inflamma
tions, I made the following experiments: — 1st, The incan
descence of a mixture of iron filings and sulphur kneaded
in water. — 2d, The inflammation of boiled linseed oil by
means of highly-concentrated nitric acid. — 3d, The inflam
mation of phosphorus in atmospheric air, as well as in pure
oxygen cas, placed for that purpose in a porcelain capsule
over boiling water, in order to separate the moleculae by
fusion without having recourse to friction. — 4th, The in
flammation of phosphorated hydrogen gas by the contact of
the atmosphere — an imitation of will-with-the-wisp. — 5th,
The combustion of pyrophorus thrown into the atmosphere,
and in pure oxygen gas. — 6th, The reduction into a charry
igneous mass, produced by the action of the atmospheric
air of torrefied bran put quite hot into a bag, the texture of
which was not too close.
    I was well aware, that essential or volatile oils become re
                                                          sinous.

         the Adrianople Red,    and other fixed Colours.      343
   ainous, and that drying oils boiled with metallic, oxides be
   come thick and hard in consequence of their combination
   with oxygen. It was also for this reason that my skains,
   covered with a mixture of boiled linseed oil, were exposed
   during the whole dav to the air, extended and insulated on
   poles ; but I then supposed them to be saturated with oxygen,
   and consequently incapable of producing the least accident.
   I was so secure hi this point that I caused a great deal of
  impregnated cotton to be dried at several times in warm
  apartments; they were not deranged but at the moment
  when they were washed in order to be dyed.           It may how
  ever be possible that the proportion of a thirty-sixth part
  of boiled linseed oil, mixed with an alkaline solution of alu-
  mine, may be insufficient to excite spontaneous inflamma
  tion in skains of cotton heaped up after they have been
  dried. Those, therefore, who are induced, on account of
  the simplicity of the process, to employ a mixture of boiled
  linseed oil with an alkaline solution of alumine, must take
  the precaution to leave the skains extended and insulated on
  poles, until they are to be washed, previous to the operation of
  dyeing, which, together with ,the brightening, completely re
  moves the excess of oil, and leaves only the portion satu
  rated with oxygen ; so that no fears need afterwards be en
  tertained.
     Since the publication of my memoir, I have convinced
 myself that the simplest brightening of Adrianople red, bv
  which the liveliest and most durable shades arc obtained,
 consists merely in. very long ebullition in bran water in a
 boiler furnished with a cover, having in the middle a pipe
 to suffer the vapours to escape, and prevent the bursting of
 the vessel; care only must be taken to renew the water a*
 often as it becomes red ; thati.s to say, two or three times ai
 the commencement of the ebullition.          Without this pre
 caution the skains would continually resume the fawn-co
 loured parts which the bran water removes, and would never
acquire a bright colour.
     One may avoid all danger without lessening much the
simplicity of my process, whether the skains be heaped up o.r
not : nothing is necessary but to apply at two different tjmes
a stratum ot olive oil, very much divided, after thev have
been well lixiviated, washed, and dried.        For this purpose,
a ley is formed of carbonate of potash or soda, which indi
cates one degree, or a degree and a ha,lf, of the areometer
for saltpetre. Some drops oi' olive oil are tfyen dropped into
it,  to try whether the result will be
                                    a    milky mixture, or whe
ther the oil will ascend  in   its natural state to float over the
                            Y4                              leyj

344      Method    of giving   to Cotton and Linen Thread
ley  ; for, as the  alkaline carbonate may contain more or less
heterogeneous      parts, in that case the ley must be weakened
or strengthened by a new portion of alkali, until it absolutely
assume a milky appearance by the mixture of oil.           When
the ley is properly proportioned, thirty-two parts of it must
be mixed at first gradually and then more rapidly, conti
 nually stirring it, with one part of olive oil. This milky
 mixture will keep a long time ; and if it be observed that
 the oil attempts to float under the form -of cream, the mix
 ture must be again stirred.       The impregnation of the skains
 should be intrusted to workmen most experienced in this
 operation, because an exact distribution of the oily parts
 has a great influence in regard to the equality of Ihe shades.
 Each workman ought to put as much of the milky mixture
 into any vessel as will admit of a certain number of skains
 to.be squeezed and twisted in it with facility.      This labour
 must be continued, always taking the same number of skains
 and the same quantity of milky mixture.          The part which
 has been expressed, each time, must be poured into a vessel
 apart ; and the quantity of oil which the skains appear to
 have absorbed must be restored, if the little value of this
 residuum, in consequence of its containing but a small quan
 tity of oil, does not make it be rejected.     The impregnation
 may be effected in the whole mass of the milky mixture ;
 but in this case it will be necessary to continue to replace
 the quantity of oil which the skains may have absorbed, as
  soon as a diminution is observed in the intensity of the
 milky appearance. Expertness in this process may be easily
 acquired by practice.        After the whole skains have been
  dried together, they must be impregnated a second time as
 before without being previously washed; and when they have
 been dried they may be impregnated, as I have mentioned
  in my memoir, either once, two or three times, in the al
  kaline solution of alumine, pure and without any mixture:
  by immersing the skains, shades more or less dark will then
  be obtained according to the number of impregnations.
     To obtain, however, bright and at the same time uniform
  shades, it will be better to employ three impregnations, pro
  perly weakening the alkaline solution.       One may then im
  pregnate three times successively in this concentrated        or
  weakened     solution without previous washing : by these
  means the manipulations, which are often tedious and
  troublesome, may be shortened ; but in this case it will be
  necessary to examine the solution from time to time, to see
  whether what the impregnated and dried skains discharge in
  it do not render it too strong.
                                                                In

           the Adrianople Red, and other fixed. Colours.     345
     In re-dyeing shades of red, it will be necessary to ascer
tain first whether they have been brightened by means of
boiling bran water, or by soap and alkalies. In the first
case they will become darker, by still attracting colouring
particles of the madder ; in the second they are weakened,
and lose the excess of aluminc, without which repeated dye
ing can produce no effect. The removal of this excess of
aluminc may be prevented by substituting for soap and al
kalies, to produce crimson shades, a portion of the alkaline
solution of aluminc, which must be added to the bran water
towards the end of the brightening.         Real Adrianople reds
become much darker by re-dyeing them, and turn brown
by the test of ebullition in water alkalized by ashes : these
reds change only very little before they arc re-dyed.          la
general, reds become brown more or less disadvantageous^
according to the time they have been boiled in brightening
 them. As the real Adrianople reds have a strong smell, it
 is probable that the Turks employ fish oil, which they add
directly to the alkaline solution of alumine, or mix with a
 very weak ley of alkaline carbonate.
     The processes for dyeing Adrianople red can be infinitely
 varied; for in whatever manner and by whatever solvents,
 whether acids or alkalies, the alumine may have been fixed
 on the skains, when a light stratum of oil has been applied
 reds more or less bright will be obtained, according to the
 precaution employed in maddering and brightening.
      It appears to me more difficult to explain the reason why
 oils combine so easily with caustic alkalies to form soaps,
 and do not admit of being mixed with concentrated leys of
 alkaline carbonates, while they form a kind of artificial milk
  with these leys when very much diluted, because one might
  suspect a tendency to combination in such milky mixtures.
  A mere suspension of the integrant oily moleculae, which
  would take place rather in the diluted ley than in the same
  ley more concentrated, is equally difficult to be explained.
      It remains that I should rectify an injury done to the pro
  cess for dyeing real Adrianople red in other manufactories.
  What was shown to me was only of the most inferior qua
  lity. I have seen some since equal to the finest and most
  durable that can be produced.         So that I am inclined to
  think that the merchandize of the Turks, like that of all
  other nations, is suited to the price which the purchaser
  wishes to give.
      I must observe also, that among my burnt cotton there
  was some both times which had been impregnated with a
                                                             weak

    346               On Spontaneous    Inflammations.
    weak ley of carbonate of soda and boiled linseed oil in the
    proportion of an eighth, a twelfth, and a sixteenth.             It
    therefore remains to ascertain whether this cotton will sooner
    catch fire than that impregnated with a mixture of the alka
    line solution of alumine and boiled linseed oil in the same
    proportions.      As the latter mixture is susceptible of attract
    ing a little of the moisture of the air, I am inclined to think
    that cotton treated with the first will inflame sooner.       The
    trials which 1 continue to make in regard to the use of gall
   nuts'in dyeing Adrianople red, induce me to believe that it is •
   by the formation of a gallate of alumine that alumine is fixed
   upon cotton, that the gallic acid may be afterwards sepa
   rated by an alkaline carbonate before the process of dyeing
   is begun. When I have acquired certain information on
   this subject, I shall not fail to publish the result.
   LXI.      On Spontaneous    Inflammations. By C. Rahtholdi,
           Professor  of Natural Philosophy and Chemistry*.
    J. he name of spontaneous inflammation is given to that
   manifested in a combustible body, without its being in im»
   mediate contact with a body in a state of inflammation.
       Combustion of this kind may be occasioned by different
   causes, the principal of which are :
       1st,  Violent friction.
       2d,   Action of the sun.
       3d, The disengagement of the caloric produced in bodies
  though not combustible, but brought near to combustible
  bodies, to which they may communicate such a degree of
  heat that they inflame by the contact of the air.
       4th, The fermentation of animal and vegetable sub
  stances heaped up in a large mass, which are neither too
  dry nor too moist, as hay, dung, &c.
      5th, The accumulation of wool, cotton, and other ani
  mal and vegetable substances, covered with an oily matter,
  and particularly a drying oil.
      6th, The boiling of linseed oil for printers ink, of var
  nish, and in general of every fat matter.
      7th, The torrefaction of different vegetable substances.
      8th, Sulphurized and phosphorized hydrogen gas disen
  gaged in several operations of nature, the last of which in
  particular inflames merely by the contact of the atmospheric
                  * From the Annates de Cbimic, No. 144.
                                                                  air
^

                                                     '
                On Spontaneous   Inflammations.               347
air even at a low temperature, and which often presents it
self at the surface of the earth like a small flame, known
under the name of will-with-t he-wisp, in places where ani
mal substances in a state of putrefaction have been buried ;
if there arc other combustibles at that time on the spot
where the disengagement takes place, they may readily be
kindled.
   9th, Phosphuret of lime and of potash which may be
formed in the preparation of charcoal, especially in that of
turf and some sorts of wood which grow in marshy places.
This charcoal, when wet, or by merely attracting the mois
ture of the atmosphere, forms phosphorated hydrogen,
which by the contact of the atmospheric air inflames, and
may set fire to the whole mass of charcoal.
   10th, The phosphorus which is sometimes formed, though
rarely, in the carbonization of different kinds of wood, with
out beine; combined either with lime or potash in the state
of phosphuret. This charcoal does not inflame, sponta
neously at the common temperature of the air; but it may
produce a detonation when struck with nitrate of potash, or
some other nitrates or metallic oxides to which oxygen
weakly adheres, and which are found in a state of therm -
oxide retaining a great deal of latent caloric.
                           1. Friction.
   It is generally known that two bodies when rubbed against
each other become heated.       The intensity of the heat pro
duced depends on several circumstances, and varies chiefly
in the ratio of the duration of the friction, and of the na
ture and surface of the rubbed bodies.      If the friction takes
place between combustible bodies, such as wood, the heat
it excites may often be sufficient to inflame it ; if the bodies
are not combustible, such as stones, or little combustible,
as metals, they do not inflame themselves ; but they may
communicate to other combustible bodies around them such,
a degree of heat that the latter will inflame by contact with
the atmospheric air.
   D. Pal'cani repeated the experiments long knpvm for ob
taining fire by the friction of two pieces of wood, giving to
one of the rubbing pieces the form of a tablet, and to the
other that of a spindle or cylinder : the result of some of
these experiments will be sufficient to show, that,in the con
struction of machines and instruments, more attention ought
to be paid to the choice of the wood destined to be exposed
to mutual friction.
                                                         Cylinders.

  319                  On Spontaiieous      Inflammations.
   Cylinders.              Tablet.            Duration.      Effect.
  Box wood          •   -   Box     -     -   5  min.   Sensible heat.
  Ditto       -     -   -   Poplar      -      Ditto    Ditto
  Ditto       -     -   -   Oak      -    -    Ditto    Ditto
  Ditto       -     -   -   Mulberry           3    -   Considerable heat
                                                           and smoke
 Ditto        -     -   -   Laurel             Ditto    Ditto
 Laurel         - •-    -   Poplar             2        Ditto
 Ditto        -   ••    -   Ivy     -     -   Ditto     Ditto
 Ivy     -      - •-    -   Box -         -    3        Ditto
 Ditto        -   ••    -   Walnut        -    Ditto    Ditto
 Olive        -    •-   -   Olive              Ditto    Ditto
 Mulberry           •   -   Laurel             2     -  Consid. heat,
                                                           smoke, and
                                                           blackness
 Ash -         -  -•    -   Oak      -     - 5       -  Sensible heat
 Ditto        -   •-    -   Fir    -      - Ditto       Ditto
 Pear-tree              -   Oak     -     - Ditto       Ditto
 Cherry         - •-    -   Elm     -     - Ditto       Ditto
 Plum         -   •-    -   Apple-tree        Ditto     Ditto
 Oak - -          •¦    -   Fir    -      -   Ditto     Ditto
    Changing the experiment, and rubbing a cylinder of one
 of the kinds of wood between two tablets of the other, a
 cylinder of poplar for example between two tablets of mul
 berry wood, the increase of the rubbed surfaces which are
 in contact with the air produced a heat much more consi
 derable, and almost the whole of the kinds of wood above
 enumerated took fire.
    The effect of friction still varies according as the woods
 employed, especially if they are of the same kind, are rub
bed in the direction of the fibres, or when the fibres cross
each other. In the first case, the friction and heat are much
more considerable than in the second.
    In large machines where there is much friction, heating
may be prevented by continually directing a current of cold
water on the rubbing surfaces : in common machines, car
riages, Sec. it is diminished by covering the surfaces with an
oily matter.          There are many instances, during the great
heats in summer, o',' carriages and other machines exposed
to violent motion inflaming, because care has not been taken
to grease them. Grease, by hardening on the rubbing sur
faces, instead of lessening the friction increases it ; and as
this covering is highly combustible, it renders spontaneous
inflammation more easy.                In many cases, therefore, it is
better to rub the machines with soap, talc, plumbago, or
                                                                     other

                On Spontaneous Inflammations.                       349
other substances, which without being oily are very unc
tuous to the touch.
                     2. miction   of   the Sun.
   The strongest heat is produced, all sorts of combustibles
are kindled, and the most refractory substances are fused
by exposure to the sun's rays concentrated by means of
lenses or concave mirrors. It may happen that other bodies
are in such a condition as to produce without our will the
effects of lenses and of burning mirrors : though these ef
fects are rather physical than chemical, it is of importance
to make them known, in order to guard against the danger
of them. We have instances of fires produced by glass de
canters  filled with water and exposed to the sun in an
apartment. When the form of the vessel is nearly similar
to that of a lenticular or spherical glass, the rays are re
fracted, and produce, by uniting in the focus, a heat capa
ble of setting fire to combustible bodies placed in it.
           3. Heat excited in non-combustible         Bodies.
    It is well known that quicklime immersed in water, or
merely moistened, produces a considerable degree of heat.
It has even been employed with success for heating at a"
small expense apartments, hot-houses", hot-beds, &c. This
property which quicklime has of disengaging a great deal
of caloric by contact with the air, and that no l6ss dangerous
of dissolving and corroding animal substances immersed in
 it,  require the greatest precautions where considerable de-
        of quicklime are formed. To preserve             it,
                                                       care must
Eots
 e   taken to guard  it  from the contact of the air, and from
moisture of every kind     ; and particularly to remove from its
neighbourhood      all combustible  bodies, such as wood, hay^
 straw, &c, which might inflame spontaneously should the
 lime contract the least humidity. The Journal de         Haute-
                                                               la
 Saone gave an account last year of the burning of a barn,
 one of the partitions of which being wood had caught fire,
 because    a  heap of quicklime, intended for repairing the
 farm-houses, bad been carelessly thrown against it.
   A    great number of similar phaenomena take place in na
  ture, where bodies,     bychanging their composition, or con
  tracting new combinations, become so heated, or disengage
  so much caloric, that other combustible substances around
  them may be inflamed.
       4. Fermentation     Animal and
                          of               Vegetable    Substances.
       Most animal   and vegetable      substances,   if   heaped upon
                                                                   each

    350            On Spontaneous Inflammations.
   each other while they still retain their moisture, enter into
   fermentation ; a change is effected in their composition, and
   they often become so much heated as to inflame.           In this
  manner, haystacks, turf, flax, hemp, straw, and heaps of
  rags in paper manufactories, take fire.
      The principal precautions ought to be employed in regard
  to hay : if cut in a rainy season, it is generally stacked before
  it is completely dry, and in this state it is the more disposed
  to ferment and become hot.         As soon as a stack of hay is
  observed to be in a state of fermentation, care must be taken
  not to throw it down too speedily. The exterior strata ought
  to be slowly detached one after the other. When an open
 ing is made in the middle of a heated mass of hay, it almost
  always happens that the fire suddenly bursts forth.
      Nothing, however, is easier than to prevent such fatal
 accidents. When it is apprehended that hay about to be
 stacked is not completely dry, it will be sufficient to strew
 over each stratum a few handfuls of muriate of soda (com
 mon salt). The expense in this case ought to be a consi
 deration of no importance ; for the salt, by absorbing the
 moisture of the hay, not only prevents its fermentation,
 and the inflammation which thence results, but it adds also
 to the hay a savour which excites the appetite of the cattle,
 assists their digestion, and preserves them from a great many
 diseases.
      During the great heats of summer it often happens that
 heaps    of dung inflame spontaneously. Great care therefore
 must be taken     to water dunghills from time to time, and
 to keep them at a certain distance from houses, both to pre
 vent fires and for the sake of salubrity.
 5.   The Accumulation    of Animal and      Vegetable  Substances
                         covered with   Oil.
     If animal and vegetable substances heaped up in a Iar^e
mass can be inflamed in consequence of the heat produced
by their decomposition, this accident is more to be appre
hended when they are covered with oily matters, and espe
cially   a drying oil.
     Besides  the accident which happened at the manufactory
of Lagelbart, and of which my colleague Haussman has
given an account, and the fire which took place in one of
the finest manufactories at Sainte Marie-aux-Mines, we
have other instances of wool, stuff, and pieces of cloth
which were not scoured taking fire in magazines when
folded up, and even during the time of their conveyance
from one place to another, when heaped upon each other.
                                                              This

                  On Spontaneous Inflammations.                351
This    is principally to be apprehended when linseed oil is
employed in the manufacturing of cloth, or any other oil
drying of itself, or rendered drying by oxide of lead.
    In cloth manufactories, therefore, no oil but olive or rape *
oil ought to be employed for greasing wool.
    It sometimes happens that in boiling flowers and herbs
in oil, which is the case in several pharmaceutic operations,
these herbs, after being taken out and dried, inflame spon
taneously: care, therefore, must be taken, when they are
thrown aside, not to heap them up near other combustible
bodies.
    We have several instances of ships having been burnt
in port either by the spontaneous combustion of cordage
heaped up and strongly covered with pitch, or of a mixture
of boiled linseed oil and lamp black inclosed in a bag.
                 6.  The Boiling   of Oily Matters.
    In   the  preparation  of  some    kinds of varnish, such as
printers' ink, where in      general  linseed oil boiled to a cer
tain consistence is employed, it often happens that the oil
inflames, if the necessary precautions are not taken. The
same effect is produced in melting butter, tallow, or any
other greasy substance, if it be too much heated ; so that
in these operations every other combustible body should be
kept at a distance, and a covering should be in readiness to
place over the vessel as soon as the matter has caught fire :
care also ought to be taken not to pour in water, which,
instead of extinguishing the fire, would give more expan
sion to its activity.
                          7.  Torrefaction.
    There are many vegetable substances which by torrefac-
tion acquire an increase of their property to inflame spon
taneously if inclosed in bags of cloth, which leave thein in
contact with the surrounding atmosphere. Of this kind are
sawdust, burnt cofl'ee, the farina of gramineous and the
fruits of leguminous plants, such as beans, lentils, pease,
 &c.
    There are several instances of fires breaking out in stables
by a bag of torrefied bran applied to the neck of a diseased
animal, and which inflamed spontaneously.              The people
in the country persist in employing this remedy, for which
others more efficacious and less dangerous might be substi
 tuted.    At anv rate, they ought to take care not to inclose
the bran in cloth either too hot or too much torrefied.
    Brewers, after causing the barley and other grain which
                                                              they

  352               On Spontaneous Inflammations*
  they use for beer to germinate, dry it in a kiln or stove, ex
  cept that destined for pale beer ; and they generally dry it
  in a greater or less degree, to give to the beer a colour more
  or less dark. If the grain when taken from the kiln is put
  warm into sacks, it sometimes happens that they inflame,
  and occasion fires in brew-houses.
        8. Sulphurized and P/iosphorized Hydrogen Gas.
     Subterranean fires and volcanoes are generally ascribed to
  the decomposition of pyrites and metallic sulphurets buried
  in the bosom of the earth.        These pyritous masses are de
  composed by the contact and concurrence of water and air,
  and the decomposition is always accompanied with a great
  expansion of caloric, and a disengagement of a highly inflam
  mable gas called sulphurized hydrogen gas. This gas in
  flames   at an elevated temperature,      and may communicate
, inflammation to the sulphur of pyrites, to coals, and other
  bituminous matters with which they are in general accom
  panied.
     Similar inflammations are observed sometimes in the
  neighbourhood of coal mines.            In working coal mines,
  veins and insulated pieces of pyrites are often found : as
  pyrites always communicates a bad quality to coal, the
  jniners generally lay it aside and take it out of the pit.
  If these, heaps of pyrites, intermixed with coal, are then
  exposed to the alternate action of the sun and rain, they
  become heated, and inflame.           Great care must therefore
  be taken that such heaps of pyrites be removed from all
  combustible bodies to which they would necessarily com
  municate inflammation.        There are many operations in na
  ture in which sulphurized hydrogen gas is produced ; but it
  often forms other combinations, according as it is dissolved
  in water, or is disengaged at a temperature too low to be able
  to inflame.
     When phosphorus is boiled in a solution of potash or of
  lime, there is disengaged phosphorized hydrogen gas, which
  being much more combustible than sulphurized hydrogen
  gas, inflames at a low temperature as soon as it comes into
  contact with atmospheric air. This gas, which in chemical
  experiments exhibits the beautiful spectacle of a fountain
  of fire over water, is produced naturally by the putrefaction
  of animal substances which have been buried. The flames
  often seen to issue from the earth, and which are known
  under the name of will-with-the-wisp, arise only from phos-
, phorized hydrogen gas : as these fires generally appear       in
  the open   fields in places where  they  are not in contact with
                                                               dry

                       On Spontaneous Inflammations-                 353
dry combustible matters, they rarely produce disagreeable
accidents  ; but it is disengaged  also in forests, and it may
happen   in very warm     summers,  when the grass and bushes
are entirely dry, that the gas in combustion will meet with
these combustible matters, set fire, to them, and in this
manner burn the whole forest, We ought not therefore,
on too slight grounds, or without sufficient reason, to ascribe
to malevolence or to incendiaries those fatal events which
sometimes are the result of causes purely natural.
9.    Sulphuret and Phosphuret                 of Lime and Potash formed
          during the Combustion                of several Vegetables.
   When gypsum (sulphate of lime) or any other sulphate,
either earthy or alkaline, is strongly heated with charcoal
of wood, or in general with any combustible matter which
by heat is reduced to charcoal, sulphur is formed.        These
salts produce sulphureous waters, if animal or vegetable sub
stances are suffered to remain in water in which they are
dissolved, so that very often nothing is necessary but a little
sulphate of lime to communicate to stagnant water the odour
ana taste of sulphur.
   Pyrophorus is obtained by calcining common alum or
sulphate of potash with sugar, farina, or any matter which
becomes reduced to charcoal.
   The inflammation of pyrophorus, which takes fire merely
by the contact of damp air, arises only from the sulphuret
of potash, which by attracting the humidity of the air be
comes heated to such a degree as to set fire to the carbona
ceous matter around        and which being in
                                   it,            state of great
                                                               a
tenuity     the more disposed to burn.
            is
   But as many of our common combustible matters con
tain sulphuric salts,     may happen that in their combustion
                               it
there      sometimes accidentally formed some pyrophoric
           is
matter, which remains in the residuum of the combustion;
especially      the combustible matter
                 if                         not entirely con
                                                         is
sumed, and            if
                     part of
                           a    only    reduced
                                          it      to charcoal
                                                    is                ;
which sometimes happens in fire-places where the com
bustibles are not burnt                  in
                              grates, and where the ashes are
not separated from the charcoal. There have been instances
of houses being set on fire bv ashes intermixed with char
coal taken too soon from the dearth and deposited in places
where they were surrounded           combustibles, which they
                                               by
set fire to           by
                  spontaneous inflammation.     Happily these
causes of fires rarely occur   for pyrophorus does not long
                                          ;
retain its property of inflaming, and       often decomposed
                                                     it   is
60on alter     has been formed, without being able to produce
                 it
     No.   72.   May       1804.              Z                     that

HH                 On Spontaneous Inflammations.
that disagreeable event. Care, however, ought always to be.
laken not to put ashes newly burnt, and which are still
mixed with charcoal, in places where they may have a
communication with combustibles.
    The formation of a pyrophoric matter is remarked chiefly
in the preparation of common soda, which is obtained by
the incineration of several marine plants containing a great
deal of sulphate of soda, and which in burning furnish al
ways a greater or less quantity of sulphur according to the
manner in which the operation is directed.
    The formation of the phosphuret of lime has great ana
logy with that of the sulphuret of lime.         Though the phos
 phoric   acid  is  not found  so  often  in vegetables as the sul
 phuric   acid,   it however  exists in them  in much larger quan
 tity than has hitherto been supposed ; it is found chiefly in
 the greater part of plants which grow in marshy places, in
 turf, and in several kinds of white wood. By reducing
 these kinds of wood to charcoal there is sometimes formed
 a small quantity of phosphorus, which may remain com
 bined with the same bases which retained the phosphoric
 acid before the combustion : phosphorus, by contracting
 other combinations, may be no longer susceptible of pro
 ducing any accident ; but it may happen also, by the con
 currence of various circumstances, that charcoal impreg
 nated with any phosphuret, when exposed to the action of
 warm and moist air, will disengage phosphorated hydrogen
 gas, which by the contact of the atmospheric air may kindle,
 and communicate inflammation to the mass of charcoal.
     Two instances of this kind of spontaneous combustion
  took place in the powder manufactory of Essonc in the.
 years 8 and 10.        The first time the fire broke out in the
  box for sifting the charcoal, and the second time the char
  coal repository took fire, without room being left for sus
  pecting that it could arise from any thing but spontaneous
  inflammation.       The different reports on these two events
  were inserted in the public journals, but the explanations
  given were not sufficiently satisfactory.         It appears very
  probable that they were occasioned by some phosphorus
  contained in the charcoal j and this explanation is the more
  founded in reason, as the alder wood used at Essone as well
  as in most of the powder manufactories, and which on many
  accounts deserves the preference over other kinds of wood
  for the making of gunpowder, contains phosphoric acid ;
  at least that which grows in our neighbourhood does.
      Charred turf begins to be used in some manufactories,
  and for different operations j but as it is much disposed to
                                                       ¦
                                                        spontaneous

              Remarks on Men      of gigantic Stature.            355
spontaneous inflammation, the use of it ought to be aban
doned, or great care should be employed in preserving it.
"Magazines of this substance,           both at Fans and other
places,    which  were   uncovered,    have    been inflamed by the
combined action of the heat and rain.
     10.  The Pfiosphorus    contained sometimes in Charcoal.
    It may happen also that the small quantity of phosphorus,
which    is sometimes formed in the carbonization of different
kinds of wood, without uniting to lime or to potash, re
mains combined with the charcoal, which in this case does
not disengage phosphorated hydrogen gas, and docs not
easily inflame by the mere action of water or moist air, but
which may produce a violent detonation when struck with
saltpetre (nitrate of potash).        It is very probable that the
 three successive explosions which took place in the powder-
 mill of Vonges were in part owing to a similar cause.
    Charcoal in general has a great influence on the different
 products of nature and the atts. It is often observed in
 forges and founderies, especially those of iron, that the
 products vary according to the nature of the charcoal em
 ployed.     The bad quality found sometimes in iron of being
 cold short is generally ascribed to phosphoric acid contained
 in the ore ; but as the ore by the same processes furnishes
 in the same foundcry one kind of iron better than another,
 the difference appears often to arise in part from the char
 coal.
 LXII.     Remarks on Men      of gigantic Stature, and particu
    larly   on  the  Irish Giant,     O'Brien. By Mr. Blair,
     Surgeon   of the Lock Hospital,      3tfc. &c*
 The existence      of whole nations of gigantic persons may
 A ell be questioned ; but there can be no reasonable doubt of
  the reality of certain individuals, whose stature has greatly
  exceeded that of men in general.         The exiet height of Og,
 king   of  Bashan,   has been   variously    computed ; some sup
 posing    him  to  have   been   more    than   twelve Ei.glish feet,
  while others think his stature did not exceed eleven feet.
  In like manner, the giant Goliah is generally computed to
  have been about nine feet nine inches ; but bishop Cum
  berland supposes he might have been full eleven feet hiuh.
 The emperor Maximums u said to have been nine feet; and
                    * Communicated    by the Author.
                                 2  8                           Several

3&G            Remarks on Men         of gigantic Stature.
several other Romans of equal stature are reported to have
lived in the reign of Augustus, ccc. Accounts are contained
in the Philosophical Transactions, of human skeletons dug
  up in England, measuring eight and nine feet in length,
  which probably were Roman. Credible relations among the
  moderns are likewise to be found, of men and women fully
  equal in size to any of the antients whose existence can be
  verified; although I think no credit can be attached to the
  fabulous and contradictory stories of the Patagonian people,
  who have been represented as a nation of giants. A com
  missary on board Le Maire's fleet affirmed that he had mea
  sured the bones of men, in sepulchres of South America,
  between eleven and twelve feet high ; and Turner, the na
  turalist, declares that he had seen on the Brazil coast a race
  Of very gigantic savages, one of whom measured twelve
  feet.     The declaration of Turner         is,moreover, rendered
  credible by     monsieur Thevct, who, in his description of
  America, published at Paris 1575, tells us he saw and mea
  sured the skeleton of       a   South American, then not many
  years dead, which was eleven feet five inches in length; his
  skull was three feet one inch in circumference, and the leg-
  bones full three feet four inches long.       To these remarkable
 instances may be added           a  well-proportioned living man,
  whom Diemerbroeck saw at Utrecht, measuring eight feet
  six inches, and who            likewise mentioned          Mr. Ray.
                                                             by
                         by is
"Also  a      youth, seen       Dr. Becamus, who was nearly nine
  feet high;   a   man almost ten feet, and        woman quite ten
                                                    a
  feet.     Among    our  own   countrymen may be named Walter
  Parsons, porter      to  king James the first, about seven feet
  seven inches in stature; and Edward Malonc (or Melloon),
 •whom Dr. Molyneux and Dr. Musgrave have described,                of
 the same height, A. D. 1682 — 5.             In the forty-first and
J'orty-second volumes of the Philosophical Transactions are
 two engravings taken from an os frontis and anos bregmatis,
  the former of which    is    reckoned to have belonged to per   a
 son between eleven and twelve feet high, the other to giant      a
 of thirteen feet four inches but no history
                                  ;                     isgiven of the
 other bones of these skeletons. The Chinese pretend to
 have had men among them even so prodigious as fifteen feet
 high !      Perhaps these relations are no better founded than
 their chronological fables.         However,      now shall subjoin
                                                    1
a    short account of Mr. O'Brien, the Irishman who has
 lately been exhibited in London, and who pretends, in his
 printed advertisements,        to be nearly nine feet' high.
 I      visited this Irishman on the fifth of May, 1804, at No.
  11, Kaymarket    :    he was of a   very extraordinary stature, but
                                                                   not

             Remarks on Men    of gigantic Stature.         357
not well formed. As he would not suffer a minute exami
nation to be made of his person, it is impossible to givel
any other than a very slight description of him.        He de
clined the proposal of walking across the room, and 1 be
lieve was afraid of discovering bis extreme imbecility.      He
had the general aspect of a weak and unreflecting person,
with an uncommonly low forehead; for, as near as I could-
ascertain, the space above bis eye-brows, in a perpendicular
line to the top of his head, did not exceed two inches. He
told me his age was thirty-eight years, and that most of his
ancestors, by his mother's side, were very large persons.
The disproportionate size of his hands struck me with sur
prise, and in this he Bcemed to make his principal boast.
He refused to allow a cast to be made of bis band, and said it
had been done many years ago : but as I have seen that cast at
Mr. Bacon's, I am convinced the size is much too small to
represent his present state of growth.      All his joints were
large, and perhaps rickety; his legs appeared swollen, mis
shapen, and, ] thought, dropsical:        however, be did not
like my touching them. The feet were clumsy, and con
cealed as much as possible by high shoes.       His limbs were
not very stout, especially his arms, and I judged that he
had scarcely got the use of them ; for, in order to lift up
his hand, he seemed obliged to swing the whole arm, as if
lie had no power of raising it by the action of the deltoid
muscle.    He certainly had a greater redundance of bone
than of muscle, and gave me the impression of a huge,
overgrown, sickly boy; his voice being rather feeble as well
as his bodily energies, and his age appearing under that
which he affirmed. Indeed I find he gave a different account
of himself to different visitors.     The state of his pulse
agreed with the general ¦ appearance of his person, viz.
feeble, languid, and slow in its motions.       With regard to
his actual height, I felt anxious to detect the fallacy he held
out of its being almost nine feet ! Upon extending my
arm to the utmost, I reached his eye-brow with ray little
finger; allowing his height to have been two inches and a
quarter above this, it could not be more in the whole than
seven feet ten inches; so that I am persuaded the common
opinion, founded on the giant's own talc, is greatly ex
aggerated.
                            23                    LXII I.  Copy

                             [   358   J
LXIII.     Copy   of  a Letter from   Mr. Cuthbertson to Dr.
    Pearson, communicating         an important and curious dis
    tinguishing Property      between the Galvanic and Electric
   Fluids*.
      DEAR SIR,
JL  think    it right to inform you, that yesterday evening           I
resumed the experiments with the Galvanic batteries.               The
result was :
    1. Charcoal was deflagrated and ignited for above an inch
in length.
    2. Iron wire, 1 -40th inch diameter, was melted into a ball
1-I6th inch diameter.
    3. Platina wire, l-100th inch diameter, was melted into a
ball 1- 10th inch diameter.
   4. Brass wire, 1 -20th inch diameter, 3-4th inch in length,
was ignited.
   5. Brass wire, 1-1 6th inch diameter, was red hot at the end.
   6. Iron wire, l-150th inch diameter, was red hot for
sixteen inches in length.
    7. Iron wire, twelve inches, deflagrated,       and melted into
a ball.
   8. Iron wire, six inches in length, was deflagrated.
   9. Iron wire, eight inches in length, was ignited.
   Two troughs, each trough containing thirty pairs of plates
six inches square, were used for the first seven experiments,
and one of these troughs only for the two last experiments.
   The four last experiments prove, I think, that double
quantities of Galvanic Jiuid only burn double lengtlis of
wire, and not the square, as electrical discharges do.
                      I am with the greatest respect, sir,
                           Your very humble servant,
   Poland-strtet, Snho,                    JOHN CUTHBERTSON.
    27th March, 1804..
           LXIV.      Proceedings  of Learned     Societies.
                 ROYAL SOCIETY OF GOTTINGEN.
 J. he physical class has proposed the following prize ques
tion for the month of November, 1 805 :
                                                                    di-
    Quum physiologi de vasculoso vegetabilium contextu
versa prorsus statuant, aliis, iisque antiquioribus,         ilium  ad-
                    * Communicated  by Dr. Fcarson.
                                                          serentibus,   .

              Original    Vaccine   Pock Institution.        359
eerentibus, recentioribus contra in alia omnia euntibus ; no-
vis experimentis, ope microscopii compositi curate instituen-
dis, elici probarique cupit Societa3 : utrum omnino aMal-
pigbii, Grewii, du Hamelii, Mustclii, Hedwigiique obser-
vationibus ac placitis standum sit, an vcgeiabilium natura
ab aniinali fabrica prorsus differat, omninoque vel fibra-
rum fibrillaruinque, qua: Medici est scntentia, vel cellula-
rum ac tubuloruin fiissu tubulairej contextu ac structura
contineatur.
  "   As physiologists have been of different aud opposite
opinions respecting the vascutar structure of vegetables, the
more antient maintaining, whilst some modern have denied,
its existence ; the society arc desirous that new microscopi
cal experiments should lie instituted, in order to decide by
them, whether the observations of Malpighi, Grew, Du-
hamel, Mustel, and Hedwig, be well founded, or whether
the structure of vegetables be different in its nature from
that of animals, and composed of a peculiar and more sim
ple organization; consisting, according to the opinion of
Casimir Mcdicus, of fibres and fibrils ; or, according to
that of Mirbel, of cellular aud tubular texture [tissu tubu
late)."
   At the   same time regard is to be had to the following
subordinate queries : — 1 . How many sorts of vessels can be
with certainty assumed from the first period of develope-
ment of the plant ? and, in case they really exist, — 2. Are
those vessels which are called spiral (vasa spiraliu) them
selves hollow? or do they serve to form proper canals by
their spiral turns? and, 3. How do both the fluids and
gases move in them ? 4. Do, according to Sprcngel, the
spurious tracheae (ireppen-gange) originate from the coali
tion of these spiral fibres ? or, on the contrary, according
to Mirbel, do the latter take their origin from the former 1
5. Do the alburnum         an bier) and ligneous fibres originate
                         (I'
from the spurious tracheae; or rather from original and pe
culiar vessels, or from   a vascular texture  ?
   The premium     is fifty ducats, and the latest period for
receiving the observations     is  before the end of September
1605.
          ORIGINAL      VACCINE POCK       INSTITUTION.
  On Monday April     30th ult. there was   most respectable
                                              a
and agreeable annual meeting of the governors of this In
stitution, established January 1800.      Before dinner the
earl of Cholmondeley, the president, being in the chair, the
continuation of the report was read, of the investigation
                                                   "       of
                               Z4                            the

360               Original    Vaccine Pock Institution.
the laws     of  agency of the vaccine pock matter, and of thft:
practice     and   proceedings      of the institution, as written by.
the physicians Drs. Pearson, Nikell and Nelson.                  The ne
cessity of such inquiries will be understood by all who arc
aware how little was known on the first promulgation of the
cow pock inoculation            in 1798; and of       course how many
errors must have been            committed in the subsequent prac
tice.      The rude state        in the first three or four years is
clearly exposed by the            report published in a former year,
and is again exposed by the numerous additional facts related
in the one read the other day. Among other resolutions,
were —
     1. That the      thanks of the meeting be given to Drs.
Pearson,       Nikell,   and Nelson, for their able report.
     2. That this report be printed under their direction.
     3. That the thanks of this meeting be given to the whole
of the Medical Establishment for their gratuitous * services..
     Till the report be printed, it may be interesting to our
readers to lay before them an extract relating to the effect of
the new inoculation, in diminishing the mortality of the
small pox, concerning which such contrary statements
have been published by persons either unacquainted with
the facts, or from motives of self-interest.
     One of the objects of this institution has been to furnish
instructions for the vaccine practice ; and this has been
 done by showing patients to visitors and students, as well
as by public lectures ; and also by written and printed pa
pers.      It has accordingly disseminated the new inocula
tion through many parts of the world. By this time its in
 structions and matter have introduced the vaccine inocu
 lation into New South Wales, as it did before at Paris, Vi
enna, &c. &c. It maybe expected from the extensive prac
tice of vaccination, (this institution alone having vacci
nated, and been the immediate means of vaccinating,
 60,000 persons,) that the fatality of the small pox must
have been diminished.              That diminution, however, does
not yet appear ; for the bill of mortality for London re
 ports 1202 to have died in the year 1803, whereas 1111
 died in 1799, 522 only in 1797, and 1040 in 1795: and
 although the number has been greater in the intermediate
 years, yet still the last year 1 202 is not much less than the
 mean number for each year during any five years for half a
 century past. — How it has happened that no diminution of
    * Not one of the medical officers receives
                                                any pecuniary rewatd    : on
fihe co.itrary, they are all among the most liberal subscribers, from them
 selves and from their immediate friends, as appears by their printtd list.
                                                                 mortality

                Original  Vaccine Pock Institution.           361
mortality is yet perceived, may easily be understood, when
it is considered that the persons inoculated for the cow
pock are chiefly those who would have been inoculated for the
small pox; and therefore the same proportion remained for
the natural small pox.      Hence, hitherto, vaccine inocula
tion, like the small pox inoculation, is only a benefit to
individuals; but that benefit is very much greater than,
the variolous inoculation, although the variolous inocula
tion, by preventing the natural small pox, was, till the vac
cine inoculation, the greatest benefit in physic.      Prejudice,
indolence, ignorance, want of opportunities, still occasion
inoculation of either kind to be but partially adopted by so
ciety at large. How tar laws might be established, or
means be found out, for every person within a certain period
after birth being inoculated, cannot be discussed on this
occasion, however important the question may be for the
legislature.
    After dinner, the president being obliged to attend the
house   of peers, the  following statement  was delivered  by the
right honourable lord Petre, one of the vice-presidents : —
    " The grand object of this institution, on its establish
ment a little more than four years ago, was, to extinguish
the small pox, by substituting for it the inoculation of the
cow pock : but however great the obligations of the public
were to Dr. Jenner, the promulgator of the leading practi
cal fact in 1 798, to Dr. Pearson, also in 1 798, and to Dr.
Woodville, in 1799, for their investigation to justify the
new inoculation, -*till a professed institution was wanting
in order to,
    " I. Extend by gratuitous inoculation the history of the
vaccine pock, of which, comparatively, but little was still
known.
    " II. To diffuse the knowledge of the new practice.
    " III. To preserve a succession of patients for matter for
 the use of the public.
    " To what extent the first of these designs has been exe
 cuted mav be judged frcm the report published in a former
 year, and from the papers distributed containing directions
 for inoculation ; and will be judged of further by the report
 this day read, and ordered to be printed.
    " With    regard to the second part of the plan, the (diffu
 sing the knowledge of the new inoculation ; the practice has
 been publicly carried on twice a week since January 1800,
 at which a great number of practitioners and many students
 have been present for instruction.
    " Institutions confessedly upon a similar plan have been
                                                      established

 362               Original   Vaccine Pock Institution.
 established in other places, and instructions for the practice
 have been disseminated in every quarter of the world.
   "  With regard to the third part of the plan, the succes
 sion and the supply of matter; as might be supposed, the
 numbers inoculated in the years 1800 and 1801 were not
 considerable.   However, a register has been kept, and more
 or fewer cases have been registered twice a week from Janu
 ary 1800 up to the present time; thereby affording a body of
evidence of very nearly two thousand patients, which have
been subjects of observation during this space of time. Such
a long and uninterrupted course of observation we apprehend
has no where else Deen pursued.       The advantages for ob
servation of even half a dozen patients a week, from 20O
to 220 weeks successively, over any greater than the total
number here inoculated but in a few months or a few weeks,
can be well conceived by those who have ever been em
ployed in observation, and need not be explained.
   " It appears that not less than 12,000 parcels of matter
have been furnished by this institution ; and thereby itis es
  timated fairly, that not fewer than 60,000 persons have been
 vaccinated with matter directly from this institution; be
 sides incalculable numbers from those so vaccinated.
   "   The whole pecuniary expense for these benefits
 amounts to little more than three hundred pounds per an
 num : and although the subscriptions are voluntary, and
 mostly of small annual sums ; and although the institution
 has sustained great expenses, and pecuniary losses, chiefly
 from unfortunately parting with money on a loan, and from
 being obliged to change their house for the practice ; yet
there is a surplus of 5501. stock in the funds, and a respec
table balance in the hands of the banker : and what is sur
prising,     is,
              that many persons have received rewards to sub
mit to the test of small pox inoculation, and others have
been relieved who were in distressed circumstances.
    " We apprehend there           not to be found in the con
                                   is
duct of any other institution, an example of even nearly so
much benefit to individuals in particular, and society at
large, at so small an expense.        However, although   it be
very true, that provided the present subscribers be periua-
ment, the income will be adequate to the present expendi
ture,  it  not to be dissembled that the practice and inquiry-
            is
might be conducted upon         larger scale, and more agreea
                                 a
bly to the different officers,     their income would allow it.
                                   if
Accordingly, although          not the plan of this meeting to
                              it
                              is
canvass for subscriptions,          hoped that its friends will
                                      a is
                                 it
thereby be augmented in such         manner as    thought pro
                                                   is
                                                          per   ;

                    Royal Jennerian Society.                363
per;    the public having already had an earnest, that their
benefactions will be (Economically yet efficaciously employ
ed by the present managers."
                  ROYAL JENNERIAN SOCIETY.
    On Thursday the l'thof Mav, the anniversary of the
institution of this society was celebrated at the Crown and
Anchor Tavern, in the Strand. His grace the duke of Bed
ford was in the chair.
    After dinner was over, the health of the king, &c. drank,
Mr. Benjamin Travers rose and stated the progress of the
vaccine inoculation.      He mentioned, that for ten years pre
vious to the year 1802, the annual average of deaths by the
small pox, within the bills of mortality of London, were
at the rate of 1850, and that within the last year the deaths
had not amounted to 1000.         The expenses of this society,
in   the establishment of a central and other houses for the
purposes of the institution, amounted to a considerable sum
in the first instance, and would annually require the expen
diture of 10001. ; to provide for which, the trustees at pre
sent had only a fund of 400l . a year in the stocks and in sub
scriptions.     After describing the salutary influence of the
discovery of Dr. Jenner in other countries, and particularly
in the East Indies, Mr. Travers read over the names of the
different subscribers, and delivered an interesting and forci
ble appeal to the feelings of the company, to excite them to
 use their utmost endeavours to augment the resources and
 propagate the views of the society.       He concluded by pay
 ing a very handsome compliment to Dr. Jenner, whose
 name he observed would flourish when nations yet unborn
 would be forgotten.
                  Excgit monumentum  sere perennius.
     Several persons bore testimony to the efficacy of the vac
 cine inoculation, in preventing the propagation of the small
  pox ; among whom were Dr. Ring and Mr. Rowland Hill.
 The latter stated that he himself, according to the directions
 of Dr. Jenner, had inoculated above 1600 persons within
 the last year, and that the effects desired had been produced
 upon the whole.       Nothing, he said, could be more simple
  than the operation, which he was convinced did not even re
 quire the interposition of any medical gentleman in the first
 instance: but should such interposition be afterwards re
 quired, which he did not think likely, he was sure none of
  the honourable profession would hesitate to afford such as
  sistance to the poor gratis,
             3                                                In

36*                      Royal Academy.
   In the  course  of the evening, Dr. Letsom apologized for
the absence   of Dr. Jenncr, who was prevented from attend
ing by indisposition.
                        BOY AL ACADEMY.
   The exhibition    of this year is, upon the whole, highly
creditable to the artists of Great Britain.    It is true, that in
the higher walk of painting the specimens are not nume
rous  : that deficiency is not,    however, to be attributed to
want of talent in the painters of our country : at different
times they have evinced, that if proper encouragement were
given, we have more than one artist capable of rising to ex
cellence as an historical painter. This is not the place to
point out the causes of this want of encouragement, which
damps the ardour of British genius, and compels it to
"  skim the midway air," while it feels all the energy which
the boldest flight demands.      That ardour the artist is forced
to restrain ; for it requires no great discernment, nor length
of time, to discover that a man may exist without fame,
though he cannot without bread, and he is aware that he
has a chance to paint a thousand portraits before he can find
one employer for one historical composition. What follows?
He must eat, and therefore must paint portraits.
   We have observed for many years past, that attempts
have been made by several individuals of theBritish school,
at what may be termed, in this political age, a coalition be
tween history- and portrait-painting. Of this attempt, when
kept within proper bounds, we highly approve. Sir J. Rey
nolds was often successful in this way.         He possessed an
elegance of mind, a delicacy of taste, and soundness of judg
ment, which rendered this attempt successful in his hands.
He did not, if we remember well, carry this coalition be
yond ouc or two figures.        Others followed him in this line
with more or less success ; but, if we are not mistaken, those
productions which have exhibited a mob of portraits on
the historical canvass,      though they have generally suc
ceeded as to profit, have not obtained the approbation of the
true connoisseur.      Fettered by the unpicturesque lines of
modern dress, and pestered by every person he was to re
present, to make him a prominent figure in the picture, the
artist was obliged to sacrifice every rule of composition, and
succeeded accordingly.       From this general censure, wc must
except The Death of Wolfe, by Mr. West.
   We now pass to a few observations on the pictures of this
year.
   The President, No.       30.   Destruction  of  the Beast and
                                                             false

                          Royal Academy.                       363
fake Prophet. — This       extensive composition is a work of
 great  merit.    The union   of effect, in spite of the heteroge
 neous parts of which it is formed, deserves high praise.
 The principal figure is however defective both in dignity and
 beauty.
    Mr. Westall, No. 23. Henry HI. replying to the Bishopt.
 —This subject, which is nut an easy one, is well treated.
 The artist has given that variety of character to his ecclesi
 astics, which preserves the picture from monotony. They
 all feel abashed and disappointed, but each feels according
 to his peculiar character.     Had there been more of sarcasm
 thrown into the face of the king, it would have improved the
 picture. This, though not suited to his general character,
 certainly suited the occasion. The com|>osition is simple
 and chaste, and there i3 a richness and sobriety in the co
 louring, with much depth of tone.
     Among the drawings by Mr. Westall, are four portraits,
 which, coming from an artist hitherto employed in the
 higher walks of the art, may perhaps be justly esteemed the
 greatest novelty of the present exhibition.      The subjects are
 all highly favourable, and the artist has diversified the
 scenery so as to give each of the drawings a character pecu
 liarly its own. —No. 363, Portrait of Miss Bennct, is di
 stinguished by the beauty and elegance of the figure, and
 the luxuriance of the landscape. —No. 368, Portrait of Miss
 Esten, as Una, strikes by the patient gentleness of the
 figure, opposed to the fierce watchfulness of the lion, and
 the rugged grandeur of the forest scene. —No. 374, Portrait
 of Mrs. Ed ten. This drawing is characterized by the grace*
  fulness of the figure, and the rich sobriety of the landscape.
 — No. 377, Portrait of Miss Hamilton. There is an infan
 tine simplicity mixed with great archness in the figure; and
 the landscape, which is of the park kind, unites the charms
 of simple and cultivated nature. The colouring of each of
 the drawings is as distinct as the design, and is admirably
 suited to the different subjects.
     As our artists are condemned to make portrait their chief
  object, it gives us pleasure to see that Mr. Westall has join
  ed the coalition we before mentioned in our critique, as we
  hope for a continued gratification in this kind from his pen
  cil. His portraits, independent of correct and graceful re
  semblance, are viewed with satisfaction as pictures by the eye
  of  taste.
     Mr. Opie, No.       71.   Gil Bias taking the Key from
  Dame Leonora. — Beautiful in effect, but truth is sacrificed
 to produce it. The intended source of liirht is the torch held
                                                                 by

366                              Royal Academy.
 by the young woman, but no part of the picture is illumi
 nated by this torch.     The head of the old woman is very
 fine, that of the young one is beautiful, and her figure ex
 tremely graceful.     The composition of the whole is in the
 best maimer of this master.
    Mr. Farrington, No. 81. View 6f Edinburgh. — This is
 certainly the best picture of this artist in the present exhibi
 tion.    The scene is well selected, and painted with great
 truth and delicacy. The hues are of that mild and unassum-"
 ing kind which charm so much in nature, and are so sel
 dom seen in art.
    Mr. Lawrence, No. 23. The face of the lady {Mrs.
 Williams) is a beautiful representation of a beautiful sub
ject, but the arm and some other parts of the picture appear
 unfinished.     The portrait of Mr. Kemble, No. i io, is a
very fine portrait, and a striking likeness. Mrs. Siddons,
 No. 193,         is,
                 we think, intended to be in the historic style.
There    ismuch grandeur in        and though
                                       it ;       do not possess
                                                      it
 all the feminine grace we could wish,      may perhaps be con
                                                 it
 sidered as the best female portrait in the room.
    Sit William Beechey, No. \\\. A Child gathering Shells.
 —As grandeur of effect was the object of Mr. Lawrence m
 bis portrait of Mrs. Siddons, here the painter was to en
 deavour to excite pleasing sensations.       In this he has suc
 ceeded.    The picture          is
                             painted  with  much   delicacy, and
 the accompaniments contribute to impress the pleasing sen
 sations which the painter intended should be excited.       The
 placid delight of the child in her occupations, as expressed
 by  the artist, must give us      high opinion of his concep
                                            a
 tions and execution.
    Mr. Thomson, No. 151. Shipivrecked Mariner.— A
well- coloured picture. The figure not original, but judi
 ciously applied. According to the quotation, he ought to be
tureen to the setting sun but he      ;    turned from rt. The
                                                is
 sua  is  Setting in the back-ground of the picture, and the
 figure    isilluminated          by
                              some other, and some greater
light.
   Mr. Owei*,    No. 198. Beggars. — An admirably co-
looped picture, and designed with great simplicity     but the
                                                            :
point of sight    not chosow with judgment,
                        is                        being placed
                                                       it
so low, that the eye of the person of whom they are suppo
sed to be askiwg charity, must be on a hne with the knee of
the child   which could not be the case, unless the top of
              ;                                                 a
wall, had been selected as the best place to
                                             beg from.
   Mr. Turner, No. 8a. Boats ca+ryhrg out Anchors, (£c. —
                             1                                  .
                                                     A picture

                  Typographic   Art in Turkey.                3&J
A   picture of very great merit, mixed with some defects.
The principal beauty of the work is the boatful of figures,
admirably coloured, and the water immediately around           it,
which  is   painted with  afreedom and transparency of the
most perfect kind. — Of the Narcissus and Echo      by
                                                    the same
artist, we cannot speak in terms of such high praise. The
parts are small ;   and the whole, though well coloured, is
without that vigour which has been the general character of*
his works. — The best of his productions this year        the
                                                          is
drawing, No. 373, Edinburgh,        from the Caltoun Hill.
Perhaps in richness, variety, and truth of colour,       may
                                                         it
justly be preferred to any thing he ever exhibited.
    On future day,
      a              if  we can find time and room, we shalT
 resume our critique.
       LXV.    Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
              TYPOGRAPHIC       ART IN TURRET.
A. letter      from Constantinople, dated the 27th of Febru
ary, states that typography begins to make some progress
in that city. An edition- of the Mussulman catechism,
forming an octavo volume of eighty-six pages, has just
come from the press   :   it was printed under the inspection of
Abdorahman-Eftendi,        director of the royal printing-office.
It  appears in general that the situation of copyist, the
members of which are very numerous, will soon be as bad
at Constantinople as   it  must have been at Rome or at Paris
in the fifteenth century one of their most lucrative occu
                          :
pations was   a     kind of almanac of the Ramazan, which
appears annually, with calculations,          the astronomers of
                                              by
the  court,  indicating  for each  day  the  hours of fasting and
prayer.     The   scrupulous  exactness   of  good Mahometans,
in observing their Lent, procured to the copyists the sale of
many thousands of these almanacs, which were rendered
more or less valuable according to their calligraphic merit,
 and the number of ornaments with which they were em
bellished.     This branch of industry, however, has been
 almost entirely destroyed since the last year.      An almanac
 of the Ramazan has been printed at Scutari on Italian paper
 which resembles parchment      :   itcontains for each day the
 hour and minute at which fasting ought to be begun; the
 length of each night during which       it   allowed to Mussul
                                              is
 mans to give themselves up to the pleasures of sense} and,
                                                                by

368                       Antiquities.
by way of supplement, as in the almanac of Liege, th*
days for bleeding, taking physic, applying cupping-glasses,
Sec.
    This innovation may appear to the Europeans of very
little importance ; but it displays boldness in the Turkish
government, which wishes by these means to sound the
sentiments of the people, who dislike every novelty.       It
has completely succeeded : the copyists only are allowed to
murmur; but the indigent devotee is very glad to procure
his almanac cheaper.    Government have taken advantage of
this good disposition, and calendars for the whole year are
now printed.     If any philosopher should smile at the ho
nourable mention which I here make of the first fruits of
the Turkish typography, let him only consult the list of the
first works printed in Germany by Guttemberg and his as
sociates,   and at Paris by Ulric Gering, who was invited
thither by the Sorbonne.       Other productions, which do
more honour to the choice of Abdorahman-Eftendi,       might
be mentioned ; such as the Annals of the Reign of Abdul-
Haniet, which are in the press, and Faden's Atlas, which he
caused to been graved and printed last summer. The impres
sion and engraving indeed are inferior to those of the maps
of Ibrahim-Effendi, published in the last century; but
geographical knowledge is not wanting at Constantinople;
and major Rennel has obtained from it very valuable infor
mation for the two large maps of Asia, on which he has
been employed these two years.
                        ANTIQUITIES.
    In digging the canal of Aiguemortes at Beaucaire, tombs,
earthen vases, and copper rings of great antiquity have
been discovered.    These tombs, which are at the distance
of about fifteen hundred toises from the present course of
the Rhone, consist of large chambers of uncut stones placed
vertically, joined to each other without cement or mortar,
and covered with stones of the same form.     Some of them
contain human bones, in such good preservation that the
structure of them, with their different laminae, can be
easily distinguished.    In some others were found earthen
vessels glazed and unglazed, with four handles, in the form
of cinerary urns. There were found also some amphorae,
which were employed by the antients for holding wine and
for other purposes.       These amphorae contained copper
rings, or bracelets, which the antients, and particularly
the Gauls, wore on their arms.
                                               DECLINATION

             Declination of' tlie Magnetic Needle, &fc.          369
 1       DECLINATION      OF THE MAGNETIC           NEEDLE.
    The declination of the needle, which was found at
Thoulouse in 1770 to be 18° 59', and in 1780, 20° 15', and
in 1790, 21° 5', was observed on the 1st of Germinal, year
 12, to be 21° 43'.
                      TRADE AND COMMERCE.
    The Russian minister of commerce at St. Petersburgh,
count RumanzofT, has just caused to be published a col
lection of twenty-one important tables, which give a cor
rect and comprehensive view of the present state of the
Russian commerce with foreign nations.               The count, in
the introduction, which is written by himself, says : " The
results of our trade have hitherto been kept secret ; but
where the sovereign is the father of his people, what has he to
conceal from them ? The emperor, therefore, has given or
ders that the whole commercial system of the Kingdom
should be communicated to the public." The lltnand
 1 9th tables, which give an account of the gain which Rus
                     ...
sia makes by the transit trade between Europe and Asia, are
particularly worthy of notice.         The tables are divided into
five parts, which comprehend the trade on the Baltic, the
White Sea, the Black Sea, the Caspian Sea, and the inland"
 trade.
                                                         Rubles.
The provisions imported in        the Baltic in the
    year 1802     amounted to                 -        11330595
Exported                                                7041003
Excess    of the imports                      .         4289587
    The principal articles imported      were          «
          Sugar                               -         4831311
          Wine                                -         2001577
          Salt                                -          1318641
          Coffee                              -           992138
    Those exported
          Rye                                 -         4041227
          Wheat                                          1318745
          Barley                              -           978107
 The metals imported amounted to              -           486074
    The articles were
          Gold and silver in coin and in bars        -  4000000
 The metals exported amounted to              -         3758040
    Among which were
           Iron                               -         3741928
    The  rest was copper.                                  •'
 No.   72.   May   1804.             2 A                         T

   370         Trade and Commtrce. — Hydrography,
                         ...
                                                            Rubles.
   The raw materials imported amounted to                 6743573
     Among which were
           Colours                  -              -      3500000
   The raw materials exported amounted to            - 30265817
     Among which were
           Hemp                   -            -   -      9059159
           Tallow                                         8712240
           Flax -                                 -       5583479
           Seeds               -     •             -      1655139
           Hemp oil          -               -            1492240
                                    ...
           Timber        -             -           -      1142*40
   Excess of the exports            -              -     24522245
   The manufactured articles imported amounted to 1096I 1 33
     Among which were
           Cotton articles                                3169042
           Silk       -                                     480861
           Iron instruments               -        -        29*468
           Sewing needles
                                             -     -         38274
   Manufacture*! articles exported                 -      5589720
     Among these were
           Linen cloth of different kinds          -      3500000
           Russia leather         -                -      1090966
           Cordage               -                 -        582847
           Tallow candles                   -      -        221593
            Furniture              -               -         165;}3
   Excess of the imports                    <U+25BA>      -      5371413
   The whole of the imports in theBaltic amount
     ed to          -                            -       32983418
   The exports               -                           46917134
   Excess of the exports           -             -       18933716
   To which must be added four millions in gold
     and silver coin and bars; so that Russia, by
     its trade in theBaltic, gains annually eighteen
     millions of rubles merely in raw materials.
   At Archangel and the other parts of the White
     Sea the provisions imported amounted to            - 387404
   Exported            -                 -                 1383142
   Of which the corn amounted to                   -      1350000
   The total of the imports in the White Sea          -     549732
   Exports                 -                       -      4796017
   Excess of the exports           -        -      -      4246285
                             HYDROGRAPHY.
     An officer many years in the army in the East Indies,
   being struck with Mr. Churchman's ideas of reducing to a
              S                                                system
^\

                Another Stone from Ike Cloud*.                     371
system all the changes of the land gaining on the sea, and
the contrary, which are gradually carried on throughout the
world, requests us to make known a few facts which corre
spond with the Asiatic researches.    He was acquainted with
a lady, who died at Madras in the year 1 797 at the advanced
age of 96 years, who used to say that the sea had encroached
there about three English miles within her remembrance;
that some years ago a row of cocoa-nut trees stood at the
place where the ships now ride at anchor.      From the time
he left India in 1794 until his return there in 1799, the sea
had encroached so much as to cause the beach-house be
longing to the customs, which stood at the south end of
the fort, to be removed three miles to the'north of       andit,
that the sea at that place continued to encroach gradually
upon the land every year.
            ANOTHER       STONE FROM TUB CLOUDS.
    We have been at some pains to obtain correct information
respecting this phenomenon, which happened on the 5th of
April; and we nave been assured         by Robert Craufurd, esq.
the proprietor of the ground where the stone fell, that the
following particulars maybe depended on; he himself, with
the following gentlemen belonging to the university of
Glasgow, viz. Dr. Freer, Dr. Jeffiry, Professor Davidson,
and Professor M'Turk, having taken considerable pains to
have them ascertained.
    On the day above mentioned, three men at work in
a  field at Possil, about three miles north from Glasgow, were
alarmed with   a    singular noise, which they think continued
for about two minutes, seeming to proceed from the south
east to the north-west.        At first, it appeared to resemble
four reports from the firing of cannon, afterwards the sound
of bell, or rather of a gong, with
    a                                           violently whizzing
                                                a
noise and lastly they heard
        ;                         a sound as    if  some hard body
struck with very great force the surface of the earth.
    On the same day, in the forenoon, sixteen men were
at work in the Possi) quarry, thirty feet below the surface
of the ground, and there too an uncommon noise was
heard, which,   it   issaid, seemed at first to proceed from the
firing of some cannon     ;   but afterwards the sound of hard
substances hurling downwards over stones            ;and continuing
in the whole for about the space of         minute.
                                            a
    By others who were at the quarry, viz. the overseer of
the quarry, and      a man who was upon         atree, to whom he
was giving directions, the noise       is described as continuing
about two minute?, appearing as       if
                                       it  began       the west, ana
                                                        in
                              9A   9                         passed

372              Another Stone from the Clouds.
passed round by the south, towards the east; at first as                if
three or four cannon had been fired off, about the great
bridge which conducts the Forth and Clyde canal over the
river Kelvin, at the distance of a mile and a half westward
from the quarry; and afterwards as a violent rushing, whiz
zing noise. Along with these last people, there were two
boys, one of ten, and the other of four years old, and a
dog: the dog, on hearing the noise, ran home seemingly in a
great fright.  The overseer, during the continuance of the
noise, on looking up to tbe atmosphere, observed in it a
misty commotion^ which occasioned in him a considerable
alarm ; when he called out to the man on the tree, " Come
down, I think there is some judgment coming upon us;"
and says, that the man on the tree had scarcely got upon
the ground, when something struck with great force, in a
drain made for turning off water, in the time of, or after
rain, about ninety yards distance, splashing mud and water
for about twenty feet round. The elder boy, led by ihe
noise to look up to the atmosphere,         says, that he observed
the appearance of smoke in        it,with something of     a reddish
colour moving rapidly through the air, from the west, till
it fell on the ground. The younger boy, at the instant before
the stroke against the earth was heard, called out, "Oh
such reek !" and says, that he then saw an appearance of
      a
smoke near the place where the body fell on the ground.
The overseer immediately ran up to the place where the
splashing was observed, when he saw              ahole made at the
bottom of the drain. In that place          small stream of water,
                                             a
perhaps about   a   quarter of an inch deep, was running over
a  gentle  declivity,   and no spring   isnear it.    The hofe was
filling with water, and about six inches of           remained still
                                                      it
empty. The overseer, having made bare his arm, thrust his
hand and arm into- the hole, which he judges to have been
almost perpendicular, the bottom being perhaps rather                   a
very little inclined to the east, and the upper part of            to
                                                                   it
the west  :   at the bottom of the whole he felt something
bard, which he could not move with his hand. The hole
was then cleared out, with     a   shovel and mattock, from an
expectation that cannon ball might be found; but nothing
                  a
was observed except the natural stratum of soil, and           asoft
sandy rock upon which        it   lay, and two pieces of stone,
that had penetrated     a   few inches through the rock.        The
pieces   of  stone  he   took to be whinstone, and thinks that
they were eighteen inches below the bottom of the drain,
and that the hole was about fifteen inches          diameter. He
                                                     in
was   not sensible   of  any particular  heat  in the  water, or in
                                                                   the

                 Another Stone from the Clouds.              3fA
 the pieces of stone, nor of any uncommon smell in the
 latter, although he applied them to his nostrils.      He says,
 that the one piece of stone was about two inches long; that
 the other piece was about six inches long, four inches
 broad, and four inches thick, blunted at the edges and end;
 that the fractures of these pieces exactly coincided ; that he
does not know whether the fracture was caused by the vio
lence of the fall, or by the mattock ; and that he never saw1
any such stone about the quarry.
    Some days after, when the particulars which have been
narrated, became known, a careful search was made for
these pieces of stone, which had been disregarded,       and the
first-mentioiied piece was soon found; but the largest piece
having been used as a block in the quarry, and having fallen
among rubbish, could not be discovered.        Some days after,
a fragment of it was detected.      The two fragments reco
vered make the two qxtremes of the stone: on the surface
they are pretty smooth, and of a black colour ; but in
ternally tlicy have a grayish appearance.     The intermediate
part, larger than both, seems as yet to be lost.
   At the village of High Possil, which is within a quar
ter of a mile of the place where the stone fell, the noist
gave much alarm to those who were in the open air; and
there, it seems, they thought that the sounds proceeded
from south-cast to north-west, agreeably to the report of
the three men first mentioned.
   Two men at work within a hundred yards of the house
of Possil were alarmed by the noise ; they thought it over
their heads, and that it resembled the report of a cannon,
six times repeated, at equal intervals, with a confused un
common sound of ten minutes duration : the noise seemed
to begin in the north, and to turn round by the west, south
and east to the north.
   The clay was cold and cloudy; a little more cloudy in
the north-east than in the other quarters.
    It maybe proper to remark, though the overseerdid notob-
servethe pieces of the stone to have any peculiar smell when he
took them out, that when Mr. Craufurd obtained the first
piece, it had a fishy and foetid smell, and that he noticed the
second also to have the same flavour, but in a less degree.
Another circumstance also deserves particular notice, be
cause, coming from children, they could not possibly adapt
their tale to the circumstances required by the nature of the
phenomenon, and it therefore demands the more implicit cre
dit. The eldest boy says he saw the smoke moving very
                             2 A 3                        quick

374            Velocity of the Galvanic   Fhrid, &c,
 quick to the place where the stone fell, and something red tti
 the smoke, and that the foremost part of the red substance was
 reddest; which is exactly what might be expected to be the ap
 pearance, if the body was in a state of incandescence. The only
 thing singular in thiscase, if the boy was not deceived in what
 he believed himself to have seen, is, that the stone should
 have cooled so rapidly, even in water, as not to be sensibly
 hot to the touch when the overseer of the quarry thrust his
 arm into the hole which had been made by it.
     About the time when the above phaenomenon took place, a
noise was heard in the air, at places at a considerable
 distance    from where the stone fell.         A person walk
ing in his garden at Barnhill, Blantyre, nine miles south
 east from Glasgow, heard five or six distinct reports as if
from artillery, after which there were several though not
loud peals of thunder, accompanied with some flashes of
lightning. A somewhat similar noise was heard at the same
time near Airdrie, eleven miles east from Glasgow ; at Fal
 kirk, which is twice the distance, in nearly the same direc
 tion ; at Hamilton, eleven miles to the south, and at many
 other places.
             VELOCITY    OF  THE GALVANIC FLUID.
     Vassali-Eandi has lately made some experiments on this
subject, as Beccaria did in regard to the velocity of the elec
 tric fluid. The fluid of a pile of twenty-five pairs of plates
tTaversed in a second thirteen metres (forty-two feet and a
half) of gold cord.      In another experiment with a pile of
 fifty pairs, the fluid passed along a copper wire plated with
silver, three hundred and fifty-four metres (1151 feet) in
 length, in a time incommensurable: the shock in this case
 was three times as strong as that experienced by imme
 diately touching the two extremities of the pile.
          ACID FUMIGATIONS      FOR INFECTED     CATTLE.
     T. Rasori  has lately communicated to M. Guyton Mor-
veau the result of some experiments made with acid fumi
gations to destroy contagious diseases among cattle. Six
oxen, which had for several days been attacked by an epi
zootic fever, died, though acid fumigations were employed.
A cow was confined in a cow-house, where their straw and
even the body of one of them had been left, and continued
there forty days, during which fumigations with oxymtiriatic
acid gas were regularly made.        The cow remained in good
                                                         health,

            Petrifaction.— Arts and     Sciences in Spain.         373
health, and showed no symptoms of disease.                 Sixty-two
oxen, all evidently diseased, and of which eight were al
most dying, were shut up in two cow-houses where similar
fumigations were made : fiftyuwo of them were perfectly
cured, though housed with the infected cattle. The author
asks, whether they might not have been cured without the
use    of  the fumigations?
                             PETRIFACTION.
    A   very curious petrifaction was found lately at Vaucclles,
in  the department du Nord.          A workman, in attempting to
square a stone obtained by demolishing the abbey of Vau-
celles, split it into two parts ; one of which exhibited the
impression of a fish, and the other the fish in relief. The
fish was examined by the professors of the college of Cara-
bray, who repaired on purpose to the spot. It results from
 their observations, that it is one of the most beautiful and
best preserved ichthyolites ever found.           It is from twenty-
eight     to thirty-one inches in length,      and   seven inches in
breadth. Every thing gives reason           to  think  that it belongs
to the class of the abdominals, and that it is a salmon. The
 scales are of a violet colour mixed with yellow : a lateral
 line of a pale white, and nearer the back than the belly,
 traverses the whole body, and describes on it a curve. The
 colours of the impression are the same as those on the re
 lief.
     It has been ascertained that this stone was originally dug
 up from a quarry in the neighbourhood, but long since
 neglected.         The proprietor of this natural curiosity has
 made a present of it to the museum of Cambray, but on
 condition of its not being given to any other museum.
                     ARTS AND SCIENCES IN SPAIN.
     The    amateurs    of foreign literature will learn with plea
 sure,     that   a   new journal has been published at Madrid,
 under the title of Miscellanies in the Sciences, Literature,
  and the Arts.        The subjects which form the object of this
journal are divided into five parts: — 1st, The physical and
  mathematical sciences, and the application of them to
 useful purposes : 2d, Natural history : 3d, Agriculture, me
  dicine, and the arts of industry : 4th, The different branches
  of literature: 5th, The 'fine arts. Besides original pieces
  and translations from foreign works, which will form the
  principal part of the journal. Each number is to contain
                                   2 A 4                             an

376                         Lectures.
an analysis of, and extracts from, Spanish and other works,
but chiefly the former.      A number appears on the 1st and
15th of each month, consisting of two sheets octavo, price
eighteen rials per quarter.     The first number was published
January    1st, 1804.
                            LECTURES.
   On Monday, June 4th, a course of lectures on physic
and chemistry    will recommence at the Laboratory, Whit-
comb-street, Leicester-square, at the usual morning hours,
viz.  the Therapeutics at a quarter before eight, the Practice
of  Physic  at half after eight, and the Chemistry at a quarter
after nine; by George Pearson, M.D. F.R.S., Senior Phy
sician to St. George's Hospital, of the College of Physi
cians, &c. &c.
   A register is kept of Dr. Pearson's patients in St. George's
Hospital ; and an account of them is given at a clinical lec
ture every Saturday morning at nine o'clock.
   The practice of vaccination will be shown, and lectures
         as usual, during the summer, at the Institution,
fiven
  Jo. 44, Broad-street.
   At    the Theatre    of Anatomy, Blenheim-street, Great
Marlborough-street, Mr. Brookes will commence his course
of lectures on Anatomy, Physiology, and Surgery, on Sa
turday, the 9th of June, at two o'clock, when the introduc
tory lecture will be delivered.
   The course will be continued on Monday the 1 Jth, and
every subsequent    rhorning, at seven.
    A   suite of commodious dissecting-rooms, thoroughly
ventilated, will be opened at five, attended by Mr. BrooKes.
All the subjects will be preserved by an antiseptic process.
                                                       Meteoro-

                            Meteorology.                        S77
                  METEOROLOGICAL           TABLE*
                          For May    1804.
                   Thermometer.
                  H
  Days of the
                                     Height of
                                    the Barom.         Weather.
    Month.
                                       Inches.
1804. April   27   51°    59°  50°    29-54      Fair
              28   52     59    50        •62    Small rain
              29   51     62   54         •91    Fair
              30   55     68    58        •86    Fair
      May       l  59     70    56        •80    Fair
                2  55     67    54        •90    Fair
                3  54     70    58        •82    Fair
                4  56     66    60        •85    Showery
                5  60     72    61    30*08      Fair
                6  62     6S    59        •20    Cloudy
                7  63     70    57        •29    Fair
                8  59     63    48        •22    Fair
                9  51     60    49        •12    Fair
              10   54     64    51    29-91      Fair
              11   53     57    44        •92    Showery
              12   46     55    49    30-00      Cloudy
              13   50     5 7   50        •08    Fair
               14  51     64    54        •08    Fair
              15   53     67    55    30*00      Fair
              16   56     69    50    29-88      Showery
               17  49     65    54        •78    Fair
              1£   50     64    55    30-00      Cloudy
               19  58      68   57    29-75      Fair
              20   61      68   53        •78    Fair
              21   60      68   55        •80    Fair
               22  61      65   52        •80    Small rain
               23   55     66   53    30-05       Fair
               24   56     63   54    29-60       Rain
               25   52     60   54         •75   Cloudy
               26   53     66   51         •72   Fair
                     * By Mr. Carey, of the Strand.

                                          I      578     1
                     INDEX to VOL. XVIII.
ACADEMY                  of   Sciences,    Ber       Antiquities,                  283,368
   lin, -281 ; Copenhagen, *fte ;                    Argillaceous       earth,   use   of,    in
   Stockholm,                        282               soils,                                 79
Acid.    The   1   alt
                   0'- it, does  not  ex             Arrows. On poisoning,                   163
   ist, 97     ;  arsenical   exists in              Arsinical acid zaffer,
                                                                         in
                                                                                    97
   zaffcr,                             97            Artillery.   Napier's curious dis
.    ,    oxymuriatic,         cure tor
                                a                       coveries respecting, 53    An  ;
   scarlet fever,                    127                derson's, 64 Gillespie's, 64;
                                                                        ;
.         On the prussic, 151, 154                      Digges's,                  248
     ,   carbonic, produced by ani                   Astronomy. History of, for 80     1      3,
   mal substances exposed            dif  in
                                                        209.    Orbits of the new pla
   ferent gases,                     258                nets,                   325
—   — ,  succinic. To collect, when                  Attraction. Curious experiments
   making amber varnish,             2-8                on,                     23            1
.         A   new vegetable,         2S3             Augustine earth exploded, 190,
— —-, nitrous. Dulcified, em                                                                 287
   ployed to give vinous flavour
   to spirits from corn,             322               Bacon(Friar) led to the disco
Acids. Use of,         vegetation, 80,
                         in                            very of the telescope,     250
   81 ;   in medicine,               1:7             Batiks' (Sir  J  account of his
                                                                        )
Adrianople red. Process for dye                        majesty's Spanish sheep,   141
   ing,                         43-340               Barley. On distilling, 108, 315
Affinities. Experiments respect                      Barm. Hint for preserving, 316
   ing,                             1
                                    9289J,           Barrow's travels. Extract from,
Agriculture.       Culture of orchis                                            •79. 3°7
   roof, 159; ofanattotree, 273                      BartbAdi      on   spontaneous com
Aiiin. Thornton's letter to, 326                        bustion,                      346
Air-pump vapour-bath recom                           Beaupoil on cantharides,         145
    mended,                                    114   Berthollet's experiment on prus
Amber vamisb.      Succinic acid                        sic acid,                            ij:
   produced when making, 279                         Bichir,   a species of fish,      36
America, South.      Geology of,                     Birds absorb oxygen,             261
                          26, 172                    blackmail's oil-colour cakes, to
Amphibious animals.       Curious                       prepare,                      268
  experiments on,             260                    Blair on giants,                 355
Analysis of cantharides,      14J                    Blood.    Effect of the air on,
Anatomy of polyptera,          36                                                     Z22
Anatw.    On culture and pre                         Boiled animal substance! absorb
  paration of,                275                       oxygen,                       257
Animal substances, boiled, absorb                    Books. Astronomical,             218
    oxygen,                                    257         .  New,                85, j8o
                                                                                  Botaay.

                              INDEX                                       379
Botany. Thornton on Aikin's              Colallic acid does not exist, 97
   review of his,                 326    Colours, to communicate,           to
Bouian.      On wool and sheep of,          burnt steatites, 84: on the
                                  234       nature of, 201 : cakes in oil,
Bcwvard"s tables of Jupiter, 2 1 5          to prepare,                   268
Brandy. To imitate the flavour           Combustion effected by reflected
   of,                            322       light, 57 ; by reflected heat, 58
Bratbtvait's remedy for scarlet          Combustion,    spontaneous.   On,
   fever,                          127                                    346
Bread.     Experiment to improve,        Commerce.     Early history of, 85 j
                                   Ibt       Russian,                284,369
Brittany.    Of   curing herrings in,    Contraction of cast iron,           7
                                     16  Coquebert on poisoning arrows,
Brown on galvanism,                185                                    163
Bucbolz's experiments on cobalt,         Corned herrings.      On,          13
                                         Cotton.    To dye, red,          340
Bucket for deep wells,             27 1  Cotton yarn. To dye, of a durable
Buffon's burning mirrors,            57     red,                           43
Burcibardt's lunar calculations,         Crane. Hall's expanding,         270
                                   214   Crookeens on distillation of spi
Burg's astron. observations, 314             rits,                   107,315
Busbnell on submarine vessels, 62        Curing of meat,                  189
                                         Curtven on steaming potatoes
Cacbemirt.       On wool   and sheep        for cattle,                   Il6
   of,                             234   Cutbbertson on Galvanism, 358
Calcareous     earth. Use of, in soils,  Cylinders. Attraction of, for flu
                                     79     ids,                          232
Cameos.      A  new material for en
   graving,                          83  Darwin's     address   to the popu
Camera     obscura.    Discovery    of,     lace at Nottingham,            73
                                 -252    Day's submai ine experiment, 6z
Cantharidcs.       On  the principles    Delambre's      solar observations,
   of,                             145      210; obliquity of ecliptic,
            __
Cape   of Good     Hope.   Condition        at 1 1 tables of the sun, 2I4
   of inhabitants of,       179, 307     Descbamps' cinchonate of lime,
Carbon. On affinity of, 193, 289                                          J67
Cast iron.       On shrinkage and        Deyeux on cantharides,           145
                                     '
   expansion of,                       1 Digesters,    to prepare    food for
Cattle. On removing contagious              cattle,                       298
   diseases from,                 374    Digges's optical discoveries,24J
Ceres.     Orbit of,               325   Distillation of spirits.      Dutch
Cheese should no! be used in hos            method of,               107, 315
   pitals,                         161   Dollond. Life of,                 47
Chrysalides absorb oxvgen,        259    DrebeWs submarine        experiment,
Cinchonate of lime.      To prepare,                                       60
                                   167   Dubamcl on hen ing fishery, 12
Clay.     Affinity of,      193, 289
Clocks.     Improvements in, 303,        Earths.     Use of, in vegetation,
                                . 305       79, 80. Augustine excluded
Clauds. Stone from,               ,3 7 1    from the simple,         190, 287
                                                                         East

 380                            INDEX.
East Indies. Degree of meridian           mal substances        in   different,
    in,                            92     258; sulphurized         and   phos-
Ecliptic.   Obliquity of,        2 10     phorized,                        35*
Eggs.     Curious exper. on, 264       Geoffroy on a new       genus   of fish,
Elements    of Science and Art;                                              36
    Imhon's ; a new edition,       go  Geography,       Improvement in,
Engraving on stones.        Steatites                                      191
   used,                           83 Geology     of South America, 26,
Ether.     On Sir Isaac Newton's,          172; of Europe, 3 1 ; singular
                                          fossil,              93, 187, 375
Expansion     of cast iron,         1 Giants. Blair on,                    355'
                                       Glass, Various kinds produced,
Fermentation.      Instructions  for,                                      290
                      111,316,31b      GouK     To    cure,                114.
Fever.     Typhus, to cure, 71 :       Greek    fire.       Manuscript      on,
   yellow, to cure,              1 go     found,                           283
Fires.     On extinguishing1,    286   Grindel on prussiate of iron and
Fish. A new genus, 36: dead,             prussic acid,                     15 i
   absorb oxygen,                260
Flies absorb oxygen,             259  Hadlcys      sextant.    Improved,
Fossils. Singular, 93,187,375
Friction. On, 347 ; to diminish,      Halts    expanding crane,            270
   in clocks,                    30J  Huntsman on dyeing,                  340
Fulton's submarine experiments,       Hellebore .employed to poison
                                  62     arrows,                           163
Fumigation poxvder for hospitals,     Hermbstadt on light and colours,
   &c, 74; for cowhouses,                                                  201
                                 3-4  Herring fishery,                       13
Furnaces.     Instructions respect    Highland Society of Scotland on
   ing,                          318     curing henings,                     25
                                      Holland.      Of barrelling herrings
Galvanism.      Experiments on a         in,                                 16
   hanged criminal, 90 ; on rab       Horn of extraordinary size, 283
   bits suffocated in water, 13 1 ;   Homeman        the traveller.      News
   in sulphurated hydrogen and           of,                               286
   carbonic acid gas, 133 ; on a      Humboldt on South American
   man decapitated, 125; on an           geology, 26, 172; accounts
   other, 137 j compared with            from,                             189
   Newton's ether, 155; inqui         Hydrigraphy.        .Clarke's system
   ries respecting, 170; noticed         of, 85 ; observations on, 3-0
   in the year 1 700, 285 ; dif
   ference  between it and elec       Ichthyology,        ,                  36
   tricity, 3585 velocity of the      Imison's    School    of Arts ;   a new
   fluid,                        374     edition,                           90
                                      Imperial Academy,        Petershurgh,
Gardiner on the animal (economy.                                           282
   Note from,                    285  Inflammations, spontaneous.          On,
Gardini. On Galvanism,           286                                       346
Gases, influence of, on vegeta        Iron,   use of, in soils,              8 1
   tion, 76 ; experiments on ani      Jones on spectacles,            65, 273
                                                                      Juniper

                                 INDEX.                                     381
Juniper      berries.    Salubrity    of, Massey's improved clock,        303,
                                    317                                     305
Jupiter.      Tables of,            215   Meat. To preserve,                 189
                                          Mecbain's astronomical labour,
 !&///*   life of Dollond,            47                                     211
 Keutscb's     treatment of fevers,       Medicine. Pneumatic, 71, 207 ;
                                    190     gout, to cure, 1 14 ; scarlet
 Kircher's burning mirrors,           57    fever, 127; on cantharides,
Klagel. On Galvanism, from,                  145; on orchis root, 162;
                                    286     oily frictions, 190; rheuma
 Klaprotb on a new vegetable                tism, to cure,                '
                                                                             3'7
    acid,                           283   Mercury.      On   the  tables    of,
                                                                             2}i
 Lalande's history of astronomy           Meridian.     Degree of, in India,
    for 1803, 209: on orbits of             9 2 ; degree of, in Lapland,
    the new planets,                325      211; the French,                312
 La'ande       (Jun.),   catalogue of     Metal. A new one,                  286
    stars, 209 ;    obliquity of eclip    Meteorology.      Fjre-ball seen at
    tic,                            2 11     Befort, 94; at Possil, 371;
 Lambert.       Life of,            338      register for January 1804, 95;
 Lambton's      measure   of  a degree       for February, 96 ; for March,
    of meridian,                      92     192 ; for April, 288 ; for
 Larva     absorb oxygen,           259      May,                            377
 Laurel     cherry.     On oil     from   Milk. To improve,                  16 1
    leaves of,                       I 53 Milk of sulphur. New          way to
 Lea n-ii Societies,          281,358        prepare,                        287
 Lebonc on anatto,                  275   Miller's submarine experiment,
 Lectures,                          376                                        61
 Lemannier's astronomical obser           Mineralogy.       Amber, 93 ; sin
    vations,                        213      gular petrifaction, 93, 187,
 Lenses.      Jones on the form of,                                          37*
                                65, 273   Mirrors,    burning.   Lord Napier
 Light. Whether a simple sub                 on, 53 : remarks on, 54, 245
    stance?                         201   Moon. Longitude and motion
 Lime. Use of, in soils, 80 : to             of,                             214
    prepare cinchonate of, 167 :          Moronilic acid. Discovery of,
    affinity of,               193, 289                                      283
 Linen yarn, to dye red,             340  Mountains. Heights of, 26 ; on
 Lughi. On Gcilvanism, from, 285'            primitive, 172; transition to
                                             alluvial, 175 ; alluvial,        176
  Magnesia. Use of, in soils,          80 Musbct on shrinkage and ex
 Magnet. On the history of, 88               pansion of cast iron, 1 ; on
  Magnetic needle. Declination of,           affinities of carbon and clay,
                                     369     lime and silex, for iron, 193,
  Mammal' a absorb oxygen, 261                                               289
  Marinrr's compass. Origin of, 88
  Maritime discovery.          Clarke's   Napier,    of Merchiston, (lord)
     work on,                          8;     plan for defence   of this island,
  Mashlyne's 34 stars, 209 ; obli                                              53
     quity of ecliptic,              211  Navigation.      History of,         8j
                                                                        Newton

 38*                             INDEX.
 Newton (Sir I.). On the sether         Powder mills.         Cause    of  explo
     of, 1 55 ; certain doctrines of,       sions in,                         354
                                   222  Potvnall on Sir Isaac Newton's
 O'Brien the giant,                35J      aether, and on Galvanism,
 OH of laurel cherry. Experiments               .     . .                     »*5
     on,                           153  Printing      in Turkey,              367
Oily matters. Spontaneous com           Proclus's burning mirror,               54V
     bustion of,                  3;1   Prussian blue. Experiments on,
 O/lrrt' star. Observations on,
     217; orbit of,                325  Prussia    te of potash.    To    obtain,
Optics long known, ¦               24J      free from iron,                   151
Orchis root. Preparation, culture,      Prussic acid. Experiments on,
    and use of,                    158      151; singular production of,
O.yygen, its effects on the blood                                             154
    known in 1 734, 222 ; experi        Publications.        (New), 85, 28c,
    ments on animals in,          257       375; astronomical,                218
Qxymuriatic acid a cure for scar        Putrid fever cured by oxygea
    let fever, 127 ; for infected          gas,                                71
   cattle,                        37+   Putrid substances absorb oxygen,
                                                                              2J7
Painter's Guide. Tingry's, 280         Pyrophorus from prussiate                of
Pallas. Orbit of,                 325      iron, ] 5 1 ; production of,
Papillon's     process   for dyeing                                          3SJ
 • Turkey red,
                                    43
Percvval on orchis root,          158   Quadrant.         When first   used,   89
Periscopic spectacles. Jones on,                                                 -»
   65,2735 Wollajton on, 165           Recorde's       knowledge in optics,
Petrifactions. Singular, 93, 187,
                               .  375  Rectification of spirits,             321
Pexroni's medical expedition,          Red     herrings ,                      19
                                  287  Red, Turky. To dye,                     43
Piaztu's catalogue of stars, 209 ;     Refraction, double, applied to
   obliquity of ecliptic,         at I     improve astronomical in>tru-
Piazzi's planet. Orbit of, 32 e           rnents,
                                                                             213
P'terrepont on use of potatoes for     Respiration.         Spallanzani on,
   cattle,                        298                                        256
Phoiphortts in charcoal,          35 J Rheumatism.          A  cure for,     317
Phosbhurtt of lime. Production         Rice inferior in nutriment to
   of,                            354     salep,                             163
                .
Plains. Height of, above the           Robinson       (Dr. Bryan), curious
                "...
   sea, 28; great extent of some,         extract trom his works,            222
                                    29 Roloff     on    oil  of  laurel  cherry
Planche on succinic acid and on           leaves,                            153,
   amber varnish,                 278  Rossi's Galvanic experiments,
Pnumatic medicine,                 7 I
                                                        '
                                                            ,   -            ,JI
Poisoning of arrows,              163  Royal Society of Gbttingen, 358
Polyptera, a new genus of fish,        Royal Academy,                        364
                                   3<5 Russet's improved well-bucket,
Potatoes.    On   steaming,  for cat                                         271
   tle,                     116,298    Russia.      On the trade of,        285:
                                                                            Rye

                              IN    D E X.                                     3«J
Rye preferable to barley or wheat        Sulphur. Singular production of,
  for distillation,      no, 319         r,   ,                                353
                                         Sulphureous        waters.     Production
Sa'ep, to prepare,          159.         e,ot'     *    •         ,            353
Salting of herrings,         13          Sun.      Action of,                  349.
Sattllite of Venus,         3:6
Saturn sting. Disappearance of,          Telescopes,    when first known,
                            216                                         247
Scarlet fever. A cure for, 127           Testaceous     animals absorb oxy-
Sea. Action of, on the land, 3;,           H*»»                     258
                                 3'»-    Thornton on pneumatic medi
Senibier.     Spallanzani's letter to,     cine,                71, 207
    on respiration,               2:6    Thornton's letter to Pownall,
Sextant.      Improvement    of Had-       221; to Aikin,            326
   ley's,                         ! 2$   Time, mean. Adopting in France,
S' -a .1 1<- India, how made, 242                                   214
Sbtepoi Cachemire and Boutan,            Toad.   Experiment on,       92
                                 234     Torpid animals. Experiments on,
Shrinkage of cast iron,             I                                262
Silt*. Affinity of, 193,        289;     Torre/action.   On,           3 r
                                                                        c
   U8<"of, in soils,              78     Trade. On Russian,       284,369
Skn   absorbs oxygen,            261     Travels.    Bergman's,         93
Societies. Learned,        281,358       Turkey red.    Papillon's process
Soil.     On composition of,       75       for dyeing,            43, 340
Spa   71.  Literature in,        375;    Typhus cured by oxygen gas,
Spanish sheep.      The king's flock                                                7»
   of fine-woolled,              I40     Typography         in   Turkey,       367
Spasms cured by vital air,       207
Spectacles, peris:opic.    Jones on,     Faccint       Pock      Institutions, 359,
    6c, 273 ; Woollaston on, 16 J                                              363
Spirits.     Dutch method of di           Vallfs medical expedition,           287
    stilling, 107, 31?; to free          Vapour-bath,            air-pump,   recom
    from esse tial oil, 322 ; to             mended,                            114
    detect adulterations of,     324     Varni b, amber.              Remarks on,
Steam, a cure for gout,          1 14
                                                                                *79
Steatites. Use of, for engraving, 8 3    Varnishers Guide.              Tingry's,
 Stenhouie on the gout,           1 14                                        280
Stone Irom the clouds,           37 1    Vegetables.         Principles of,     76
Stones, on engraving,              83    Vegetation.         Influence of soil on,
 Submarine  navigation known to                                    75. i'9
    Napier, 54; practised by Cor          Venus.    On the tables ot, 215;
    nelius Drebell, 60; by the               conjunction of,       satellite
                                                                      $2
                                                                       1
                                                                       ;
    marquis bf Worcester, 61 ;               of,                       326
    tried by Papin, 6 1 ; William         Vidal's astron. observations,2io
    son, 61 ; Miller,    Day, Busli-      Vilcot's method of engraving ca
    m-11, and Fulton,              62        meos,                                  83
 Sulphur, milk     of.   New way to
   prepare,                       287     War    chariot.        Lord Napjer's, 54
                                                                             Ward's

384                          INDEX.
Ward's improvement of Hadley's       Wolfs-lane   used   for   poisoning-
  sextant,                     1 23    arrows,                       163
Water. Action of, on land, 35,       Wollaston  on spectacles,       165
  370 ; on soils,                82  Wool.    Improvement of,       141  ;
Wells. Improved bucket for,            of Cachemire sheep,           234
                               271   Worcester   (marquis  of),   on his
Wheat. On making spirits from,         inventions,                     61
                          no, 316    Worms absorb    oxygen,         357
White herrings,             14, 1 7
Williamsons submarine proposal,      Teast.  Hint for preserving, 316
                                61   Telloiv fever.    To cure,      1 oe
               KND    Or THE EIGHTEENTH VOLUME.
 Taylor, Printer, Black-Horse-Court,
            Fleet-Street.

        I
65
*i
      *
      *
   J
     /oNA




'On'A
V^y


     I
£
  (¦


                                    TkOeJMay.PlT. Vcl.XVlR.
   W! Jtutbrs improved Water Bucket                 X*wry sculp
7'
                                                 'oN'2>


¦
  'oN'A

>
                                       j'/uiv Ma<i .Fi.nn.roi xvm.
Fi/jure of the Orotic  of the   two new Planets.
                 J^ulxxL or t'ereJ
                                                                 Op •
                                                                  >*7



X >


BOUND
JU13115**      UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
U»IV. OF (4K
   LIBRARY
             3 9015 03539
                                   4157

HfflSi
'I--;:,"

