The philosophical magazine.
London, England : Taylor & Francis, 1798-c1977.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015035394124
                              Public Domain, Google-digitized
                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                              We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                              meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                              free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                              in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                              heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                              of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                              copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                              of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                              need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                              address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                              produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                              on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                              the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                              or used commercially. The images are provided for
                              educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.

magazine
Philosophical


Q
   '
 i
L25-


Q
  •
i






  PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE:
                                   COMPREHENDING
           THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF SCIENCE,
                     THE LIBERAL AND FINE ARTS,
                 AGRICULTURE, MANUFACTURES,
                                           AND
                                   COMMERCE.
                   BY ALEXANDER TILLOCH,
  HONORARY MEMBER OF THE ROYAL IRISH ACADEMY,                            &C. &C. 8fC.
     *' Nec aranearum sane textus idco melior
                                                   quia ex se fila gignunt, nec noster
  vilior quia ex alicnis libamus ut apes." Just. Lips. Monit, Foiit. lib. i. cap l.
                                    VOL. XXIII.
          For OCTOBER,          NOVEMBER,         and  DECEMBER,          1805;
                                 and  JANUARY        1806.
                                      LONDO         N:
                Printed ly  R. Taylor and Co., 38, Shoe Lane, Fleet Street:
      And   sold  by Messrs. Richardson; Cadell          and Davies ; Longman,
•         Hurst,     Rees, and Orme; Symonds;            Murray; High let      ;
               Virnor     and   Hood; Hardmg; London: Bell and
                     Bradfu rr, Edinburgh; Brash and Re id, and
                          D. Nevin, Glasgow; and Gilbert
                                  and Hodges,     Dublin.
                                          1806.


             CONTENTS of VOL.                    XXIII.
  I. SOME original          Remarks on a Variety of the Genus
      Acarus,     belonging to the Order Aptera, found on the
      Wings, (Sc. of a feathered Fly of the Order Diptera.
      By Mr. John Snart, Optician                           Page 3
  II. On a Colour for marking the Ends of Cotton or- Linen
       Clotlis capable of resisting the Operations of bleaching,
      and likewise lite most complicated Manufacture of printed
       Clotlis, witlwul extending beyond the Limits of the ori
      ginal Impression. By M. Hauffman                             8
  III. A Varnish which preserves Vessels made of Copper or
       other Metals from the Action of Adds of a certain
       Strength.       By M. Haoffman                            13
  IV.     New Method of extruding raw Sugar from the Beet-
*      root. By M. Achard                                        14
  V. An experimental Essay on Salt as a Manure, and as
   .. a Condiment mired with the Food of Animals.            By tht
       Rev. Edmund Cartvvright, of JVoburn             .. .. 16
  VT. On tlie Analysis of Soils, as connected with their Im
       provement.       By Humph     it Y Davy, Esq. F.R.S. Pro
      fessor   if Chemistry
       the Royal Institution
                             to  the   Board of Agriculture and to
                                                                 26
   VII.     Extract from   a Memoir on the Steeping of Wool, and
       on tfte Influence of its different State* on Dyeing.     By
            J.
        M. L. Hoard, Director of the Dyeing Establishment
       in the Imperial Manufactories.       Head in the French Na
       tional Institute                                          42
   VIII.      New Galvanic Discoveries, by M.       Ritter. Ex
        tracted from a Litter from M. Chiust.       Bernoulli 51
   IX.     Galvanic Experiment^          By M. Bitter . . . . 54
   X.      Chemical Experiments on Mercury.            By Messrs.
        Braamcamp and Siqueira-Oliva, of Portugal                56
   XI. New Method of preparing Alum from Pyrites and
        Clay.    By M. Lampadius, Professor of Chemistry and
        Metallurgy at the School of Freyberg                     65
   XII. Twenty -fourth Communication from Dr. Thornton,
        relative to Pneumatic Medicine                            68
   XIII. A specific Remedy for the Tinea Capitis. By Mr.
        James    Ha  h low                                        69
   XIV.       On the Decomposition of Alkaline Subphurets by the
        Oxides of Lead and of Mangam-se.        By M. Dizk        70
   XV. Process for preparing pure Gallic Acid. By M. Rich-
        ter      . .                                              74
   XVI.       Biographical Sketch of Mr. George Margets.
         Chronometer- maker to the East India Company, and
        Author of the Longitude and Horary Tables .. .. 76
   XVII. Acidulation of Sulphate of Potash. By M. Oer
        sted                                                      80
   Vol.    23.  No. 92. Jan.   1806.         a

                         CONTENTS.
XVIII. Proceedings of Learned Societies                           80
XIX. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles        . .      . .  87
XX. Account of the Goals of Angora:          in a Letter from
   M. Chancev to M. Pictet of Geneva              ..        ..    97
XXI.   Description of a Machine by which all the Thread.work
   in Shoe-making may be done in a standing Posture.              By
  Mr. Thomas Holden, of Fcttleworth, near Petwortn,
  in Sussex                                                      102
XXII. An Essay on Commercial Policy. By J. B. Galt,
  Esq. London                                                    104
XXIII. Muriatic Solution of Tin in part decomposed into
  metallic crystallized Tin.     By M. Bucholz           ..      112
XXIV. On muscular Motion. By Anthonv Carlisle,
  Esq. F.R.S.: being the Croonian Lecture.              Read be
 fore the Royal Society, November 8, 1804 . .             . .    113
XXV. Account of Mr. Arthur Woolf's new Improve
  ments on Steam-Engines         ..                              123
XXVI. Extract of a Letter from M. Rinck, qfTreysa,
  on a new Acid found in Alkaline Prussiates            ..       128
XXVII. Chemico- Galvanic Observations.           By     M.     Oer
  sted                                                           129
XXVIII.     On tlie Art of Aquatint a Engraving; with a
  Description of an Apparatus to prevent the Inconvenience
  which Artists experience from tlie Fumes which are pro
 duced by the Action of the Acid employed in the Process
                                                                 130
XXIX.    On pure Nickel, discovered to be a noble Metal; on
  its Preparation and Properties.     By J. B. Richter 137
XXX. Account of a new Vegetable Substance discovered
  by  M. Rose                                                    142
XXXI.    Facts relative to the Torpid State of the North Ame
  rican Alligator.    By Benjamin Smith       Barton, M.D.
                                                                 143
XXXII.    Process for  obtaining pure Cobalt. By   M. Troms-
  DORFF                                                          H5
XXXIII.    On a Method (f analysing Stones containing fixed
  Alkali, by Means of the Bnracid Acid. By Humphrv
  Davv, Esq. F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry in the
  Royal Institution                                              146
XXXIV. Observations on the singular Figure of the Planet
  Saturn.     By William Herschel, L~L.D. F. U.S. 147
XXXV. Experiments and Observations upon the Contrac
  tion of Water by Heat at low Temperatures.            By Tho
  mas Charles Hope, M.D. F.R.S. Edin., Professor of
  Chemistry in the Unive. situ of Edinburgh ..            .. 153
XXXVI. On an artificial Substance which possesses the prin
 cipal characteristic Properties of Tannin.      By Charles
 Hatchett, Esq. F.R.S                                            173

                          CONTENTS.
XXXVII.      Proceedings of Learned Societies          .. .. 182
XXXV rIH.     Intelligence    and Miscellaneous    Articles   .. 187
XXXIX. Examination of different Processes for obtaining
  the Separation of Nickel from Cobalt.              By Christian
  FilEDERIC BUCHOLZ                                              193
XL. An experimental Inquiry into the Nature of Gravelly
   and Calculous Concretions in the Human Subject ; and the
   Effects of Alkaline and Acid Substances on them, in and
   out of the Body. By Thomas Eg an, M.D. M.R.I.A. 1 99
XLI. Twenty -fifth Communication from Dr. Thornton,
   relative to Pneumatic Medicine                                212
XLII. On a new Metal recently discovered by M. Troms-
   DORFF                                                         213
XLII I. On muscular Motion. By Anthonv Carlisle,
   Esq. F.R.S.: being the Croonian Lecture.
                                                       ....
                                                         Read before
   the Royal Society November 8, 1 804           . .             217
XLI V. Information on the Mines and Manufactures of the
   East Indies, and other Subjects.         By J. Machlachlan,
    Esq. of Calcutta      . .                                    227
XLV. On the Direction and Velocity of the Motion of the
    Sun and Solar System.            By William Herschel,
    LL. D.F.R.S                                                  230
XLVI. Life of John Bevis, M. D. F. R. S. &c Com
    municated by Mr. T. S. Evans, of the Royal Military
    Academy, Woolwich                                            247
XLVI I. On the magnetic Attraction of Oxides of Iron.
    By Timothv Lane, Esq. F.R.S                                  253
XLVIII.      Extract from ajMemoir of Messrs.             Fourcrov
    and  Vauouelin       upon the Discovery of a new inflam
    mable  and  detonating Substance formed by the Action of
    Nitric Acid on Indigo and Animal Matters. By A. Lap-
    G1ER                                                          255
XLIX.      Third Communication from            Mr. W. Peel,         of
    Cambridge.        On  the   Production    of Muriates by       the
    Galvanic and Electric Decomposition of Water . .              257
 L.  Experiments on Gum Arabic and Gum Adraganth.                  By
    M. Valquelin                                             . .  259
 LI. A Proposal for      destroying   the Fire-  and   Choak-Damps
    of Coal Mines ; and their Production explained on the
    Principles of modern Chemistry : addressed to the Owners
    and Agents of Coal Works, &?c                                 261
 LI I.  Lefter of    M. Gav-Lussac        to M. Berthollet,         on
    the Presence   of Fluoric Acid in Animal        Substances    264
 LIU. Proceedings of Learned Societies                            2.68
 LIV. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles . . .. 682
 LV. Abstract of Observations on a diurnal Variation of the
    Barometer between the Tropics. By J. Horsburgh, Esq.
    In a  Letter  to  Henrv Cavendish, Esq. F.R.S.                269

                        CONTENTS.
LVI. An    experimental Inquiry into the Nature of Gravelly
   and Calcutous Concretions in the Human Subject ; and the
   Effects of Alkaline and Acid Substances on them, in and
  out of the Body. % THOMAS EGAN, M.D.M.R.LA. 295
LVI1. Letter from JOHN POLLOCK, Esq. of Mountains-
   town, Navan, to the Reverend Dr. LYSTER, respecting a
   Surgical Operation performed on a Heifer . .         . . 308
LVII1. Description of   Mr.  I)AVID   CHARLES-S     Machine for
   laying Land level. By Lieutenant- Colonel HARDY 309
LIX. On the Utility of Public Dispensaries in general;
  accompanied with a Report of the Cases in the Finsbury
   and City Dispensaries for the last three Months of the
   Year 1805.      Communicated by JOHN TAUNTON, Esq.
   Surgeon   to  the City and Find-ury Dispensaries, and
   Lecturer on Anatomy, Surgery, &c                         312
LX. Description of M. BARUEL-S new Apparatus for
  making Gaseous Oxide of Carbon. By M. DRYEUX 317
LXI. Additional Experiments and Remarks on an artificial
  Substance which possesses the principal characteristic Pro
  perties of Tanmn.       By CHARLES HATCHBTT, Esq.
  F.R.S                                                     320
LXII. Extract from a Memoir ly Messrs. FOURCROY and
  VAUQUELIN upon the Phenomena and the Products which
  Animal Matters afford wlien treated with Nitric Acid.
  Read at the National Institute                            326
LXII I. A Memoir on the Means of rendering Smutty
  Wheat fit for Market.         Translated from the Biblio-
  theque Physico-Economique ly the Rev. JOHN DUBOUR-
  DIEU                                                      332
LXIV. Specification of the Patent granted to ARTHUR
  WOOLF, of Spa Fields, in the County of Middlesex,
 for certain Improvements in the Construction of Steam-
  Engines.     Dated June 7, IBM                            335
LXV. On the Chemical Nature of Blighted Corn. Ex
  tracted from a Memoir read at the Institute 30th Ven-
  demiaire, Year \ 2. By Messrs. FOURCROY and VAU
  QUELIN                                                    346
LXVI. Experimental Inquiry into the Proportion of the
  several Gases or Elastic Fluids constituting the Atmo
  sphere.   By JOHN DALTON           ..                     349
LXV II. Experiments on the Torpedo, ly Messrs. HUM-
  BOLDT and GAY-LUSSAC.             Extracted from a Letter
  from M. HUMBOLDT        to M.   BERTHOLLET,      dated Rotne,
  \iFructid.Year\3                                    -..   356
LXVIII. Notices respecting     Neiv  Books   ..    ..   ..  360
LXIX. Proceedings of Learned Societies          ..      .. 363
LXX. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles           .. 371

                              THE
   PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE.
I. Some   original Remarks   on a Variety of the Genus Acarus,
   belonging to the Order   Aptera, found on    the Wings, &c.
   of a feathered Fly of the Order Diptera.       By Mr. John
   Snart,     Optician.
         To the Editor  of the Philosophical Magazine.
     SIR,
JL should not      have thought  myself very well employed in
writing   the  following particulars  of so trivial a creature as
I am about to treat of, were it not with the view of drawing
some new inferences, and even an unequivocal line of de
marcation between animalcula that are of a perfect gene
ration and those which are not so, although they are
often indiscriminately blended : and though I will not per
emptorily dare to dogmatically assert that the one in ques
tion is the ne plus ultra of nature's perfect beings, in a small
way ; yet it is the utmost boundary I have seen, or even
read of in those entomological writers who have given
simple statements of facts only. I do not mean to include
the animalcula infusoria in this idea ; for it is plain that
nature's manner of perpetuating a species by mere vegetative
impregnation is essentially different and distinct from sex
ual intercourse, or copulation ; although it may be urged by
some (what I think is very doubtful), that the germ or ova
of the former is always shed or ejected in the water, &c.
beforehand : but as the common pediculus, or louse, it is
evident, is originally formed from the exudation of the
skin, which vegetates, becomes vascular, organizes, and
lastly animates, and assumes loco-motion (without a fa
ther, and is therefore sui generis), this also may be the
case with the creature of which I am writing, which may
originally be produced in this way, as well as many others j
but after they have attained the capacity of propagating their
species per se, provident nature, whose characteristics are
simplicity and ceconomy, and who never makes use of two
sorts of means where one will answer the intended end,
may leave them to shift for themselves when capable. As we
take away the leading-strings when the child can walk
   Vol. 23. No. 89. Oct. 1805.        A2                   alone j

4                 On a Fariety      of   the Genus Acarus.
alone   ;so she may choose to diversify her manner of per-
 petuatimr these species, by leaving them to tha impulses she
 has planted in them.
    It is this manner of propagation in this species, to which
 I have been an eye-witness, that emboldens me to think that
 this creature, though otherwise insignificant, is entitled to
 some distinction in that part of natural history called ento-
 mology ; and that from this source,               it,
                                         being so small, though
 perfect, derives all its consequence.
      think        pretty obvious that this secret diversity of
    I            it
                 is
our grand parent, from whose inexhaustible source we are
continually extracting fresh information,         the cause of
                                                             is
different opinions in various writers upon the several branches
of natural philosophy       because,
                              ;         one man should see
                                               if                      a
creature produced         vegetative impregnation only, which
                            by
another knows to be produced                   by
                                        sexual commerce, and
each should be ignorant of the other means, they will reci
procally contradict each other while     ;   knowledge of both
                                                         a
harmonizes the whole, without hypothesis or concession                 ;
and in several species of insects one male impregnation will
pass through, or serve for, several generations.      The crea
ture before us      one of the multitude of examples which
                     is
proves that our common parent           no less wonderful, but
                                               is
much more profuse, in her smaller than in her greater pro
ductions     ;which affords   presumption, that were our optics
                                  a
commensurate to the task of viewing her exquisite work*
to perfection,     there may exist      part of her diversified
                                               a
chain of animated beings as much more minute than the
animalcula we are familiar with         means of our natural
                                               by
organs, as they are inferior in size to the elephant, the sup
posed extinct species of the mammoth, or the more doubt
ful kraken itself.
            And though their vital spark  is pent in narrow bounds,
            They feel each speculator-s philosophic wounds,
            When calmly they-re impal-d alive to feast his cyei,
            (Regardless of their agonizing throes and sighs,)
            And pain as much, at death, as when giant dies!
                                                    a
   In the instance now before us we have indubitable proof
of identical existence, distinct and separate volition, with
a  capability of performing all the voluntary as well as in
 voluntary functions of life, together with the ceconomy of
 perpetuity by propagation, 8cc. &c.; which,         my ideas,    in
constitute the creature in question, at least in this stage of
life, as distinct from the merely impregnated existence as
the animated from the vegetative creation, and therefore
justly entitled to place
                       a     the sentient list of nature-s ;mi -
                                  in
                                                         mated

             On a Variety   of t lie   Genus Acarus.          3
mated works.      And in this particular I think a natural line
of demarcation   between  the monads of matter, organic par
ticles, or first rudiments of future being, and distinct be
ings, is quite apparent.
   For it is not the oscillatory motion of the semen mascu-
limim, the attractive and repulsive motion of some of the
animalcula infusoria, or the rapid vegetative growth of
the mutilated parts of these semi-animated creatures called
polypi, that so properly constitutes life, consciousness, and
perfect being ; but predilections, volition, propagation of
species, &.c. are primary characteristics of being : and from
these criteria we ought, a posteriori, to draw our inferences
of different degrees or modes of existence, because they are
so much more satisfactory than the indefinite one of loco
motion, or any other of the non-naturals.
   From these particulars I infer that this creature is neither
larva nor infusoria, but a perfect insect ; because the one
cannot propagate, and the other is not begotten by an iden
tical parent. And it is plain that it differs very essentially
from the animated moleculae or organic monads, or parti
cles of the semen masculinum, which are rather the primitive
rudiments of future beings than beings themselves.
   It is as far back as May 1803 since I first made the
discovery of these insects; but, as I would not imperti
nently obtrude every trifling discovery upon the world, lest
it should have been published before (and I despise plagia
rism), I have let it lie by ever since, that I might inform
myself of this circumstance did it exist ; and by this for
bearance I have discovered that there are as many as five-
and-thirty varieties of this genus, known in the Linnaean
catalogue, chiefly distinguished by the numbers and length
of thorns, or hairs, which issue from their posterior parts.
But of this variety no particular mention is made by that
great man, that I can learn ; and this, together with some
original remarks, which my attention to the subject has
enabled me to make, seems to justify the present observa
tions.
    In the year and month above mentioned I happened to
catch a feathered   fly of the order diptera, which curiosity
 prompted   me  to reserve for the microscope, with    a view of
 examining its beautiful plumage, or feathers, with which the.
legs are plated or covered, and the wings striated and bor
dered 4each wing has six of these striae of delicate fimbriated
     :
 feathers, and fimbriated with  a  border of the same, issuing
 out at an angle of about thirty degrees from their source: the
other part of the wings    is reticulated   by
                                             veins, so as to ap-
                               A 3                          pear

6              On a Variety       of  the Genus Acarus.
pear like   fine gauze.         The whole fly about the size of the
common gnat.
    Upon a minute examination of the plumage, &c. I ca
sually discovered the subject of this paper: whereupon I
took a deeper magnifier, which enabled me to see that every
part abounded with them, and that the one I first saw was
not an accidental visitor, but that they were the common
vermin with which this fly is infested ; which indeed is
no great wonder, when it is considered that far less creatures
have some peculiar tormentor; for even that notably dis
gusting pestilence the louse is not exempt, but is over-run
at times with his pediculi, in return for the compliments he
pays to some      of us *.
   The object of my pursuit           was now diverted from the fly
and his plumage to his incumbent tormentors, which I soon
discovered to be of the oviparous kind, and that some hun
dreds of the ova \\ ere scattered over one wing, several of
which I saw drop off the parents while they perambulated
their prey, which were afterwards nidified, or hatched.
    I should have observed before, that the eggs of this insect
are never incubated at all, but instead thereof the parent
literally clothes herself with them ; for by means of some
kind of mucilage, which either exudes from the parent, or
with which the ova are covered, they firmly adhere to her :
but it is most natural to suppose this supply is from the
parent, by which means the ova are brought to perfection ;
and as this mucus is absorbed they harden and fall off; after
which, in a few days, a development takes place.                 And here
the agency of the sun is of essential service, as it not only
very much accelerates their maturity, but also stimulates the
full grown to fulfil the great purpose of nature, which they,
like the canine breed, perform posteriorwise.                 But I never
saw the least propensity to this act until they were placed
in that situation, or any of the eggs hatched anterior to
this: but all their motions were slow and languid heretofore ;
whereas now they became reanimated, with the greatest
promptitude imaginable, running about with amazing cele
rity, &c. The rotundity and semi -transparency of their
bodies gave them the appearance of moving prolate sphe
roids of moistened ichthyocolla, and <juite as clear through
out ; for, like all insects, their blood is as limpid as distilled
water, so that there is no impediment to the sight.                      And
as the microscope       I  applied   them   to magnified     several    thou-
   * Thus a distinct
                     specie! of pulei, gorged with a serrated collar, is found
on the mouse :— and all creatures have some kind of vermin.
                                                                         sand

                 On a Variety    of the Genus Acarus.               7
sand times, they appeared as large as walnuts, and I could
 distinguish every part with ease. The ova, or eggs, were
 also seen as large as kidney beans, and looked like polished
 mother-of-pearl ; and, owing to the solar rays, as finely va
 riegated, with all that soft delicacy of prismatic tint so pe
culiar to that shell.
    The legs of these insects, which are eight in number, are
 so small in proportion to the bulk of their bodies, that if
the creatures happen to fall from any eminent part of the
fly, upon which they feed, and get upon their backs, they
 are as unable to recover their feet as a tortoise ; partly on
 account of their want of the vertebral jaints or spines, and
 partly from the inconsiderable weight of their legs to form
 a counterpoise.       But what they are deficient in in these re
 spects  is   by  provident   nature compensated for by their in
 genuity and address, as is plain by their taking advantage
 of any adventitious opportunity for their relief that may
 present itself, and which they have the sagacity to improve
 and make subservient to their present convenience : for,
 each leg being composed of four articulations terminating
 in a double talon, they catch hold of as many of their young
 as are adequate to form a sufficient weight of lever, when
 properly applied, to restore them ; to which purpose they
 place them all on one side; and so completely counter
 act the weight of their bodies, and recover their lost po
 sition.
    The facility and address with which they wield six or
 eight small ones (quite as easily as a man can a walking-
 cane) not only argues great strength
                                               of body but great in
genuity     also ; while  the  infant   tribe   appear to sympathize
with the incumbent parent while in that supine posture ;
who no sooner falls than she is surrounded by these little
auxiliaries, each of which places itself on some part of the
parent, as if emulous to assist (and it cannot be to suck,
because they are not of the mammalia class).                Thus we
may see in an insect, which          in  its first development is not
more than a sixteenth part the size of a small grain of sand,
and in its mature state not bigger than the grain itself, all
those powers of instinctive motion that can be found in one
ever so large or noble.
    Of how small worth, then, are the attainments of nine.
tenths of the human species, who perform a dull, unmean
ing, sensual round of unconscious mechanic actions, as
they feel themselve? impelled by instinct, not one of which
is superior to those of these neing3, whom they destroy
                                  A4                         without

  8         On a Colour        for marking      the  Ends of Cotton
  -without knowing such creatures had an existence                    !
                                                                          (I omit
  the black catalogue of their faults.)
                  Then what is life - what all its functions too !
                  When largely giv-n to mere ephemera I—
                  The animating pow-r is wondrous cheap !
                  Or much our parent-s largess is unknown !—
                  Your boast (preheminence), vain man, forgo,
                  Or blush, and turn this gift to more account.
                  For if the thinking man is censur-d thus,
                  A nd e-en outrivall-d by a very mite,
                  What shame awaits the drowsy sensulist,
                  Who eats, drinks, sleeps, and toys ; then dies a fool !
     If  these particulars should be thought of sufficient mo
  ment to entitle them to a place in your vehicle of philoso
  phical information, by laying them before the public you will
  confer another favour on, sir, your already obliged
 S15, Tooley^treet,
                                                 Servant at command,
  August   10,  1805.                                          JOHN SNART.
                          Explanation of       the  Plate.
     Fig.   i.   (Plate I.) Back view of the acarus, with the ova
 attached     :  also two young ones, showing the comparative
 size of them with a full grown insect.
     Fig. 2. Abdominal view, showing the manner in which
 the legs, 8tc. spring from the sternum and belly : also the
 comparative length and usual number of hairs which issue
 from the posterior parts, — in general about thirteen or four
 teen.
 II.   On a Colour for marking the Ends of Cotton or Linen
     Cloths capable of resisting tlie Operations of bleaching,
    and likewise the most complicated Manufacture of printed
     Cloths, uithoui extending beyond the Limits of the ori
    ginal Impression. By M. HAUFFMAN *.
  1 o obtain a colour proper for marking cloths of every
kind, it is necessary that no substance or drug soluble in
alkaline leys should enter into its composition. It is equally
requisite that the substances                 intended for any compo
sition whatever should not turn white when combined with
oxygen ; and that they should remain indissoluble in acids
of the strength required for bleaching, as well as for the
preliminary operations in the fabrication of printed cloths.
Colours composed with drying oils cannot, therefore,
in my opinion, be employed for this kind of marks, be
cause they arc not only liable to be attacked by alkaline and
                    •
                       From the Aimales de Chimie, No. 158.
                                                                 saponaceous

   or Linen Cloths capable               of resisting Bleaching, t&c.     9
•saponaceous leys, but because in drying slowly they run,
and very often occasion spots.
  If  those composed with spirit-varnish    were even not
attended with the inconveniences of speedy evaporation and
desiccation, still it would be as improper to employ them
as the preceding, because turpentines and resins are very
easily transformed into soap.   Nor can gum-copal be used
for colours for marking, because it is detached from the
stuff by mere ebullition vn water.
    By employing oil of turpentine, which evaporates and
driers less speedily than alcohol, I have succeeded in obtain
ing a black composition, which to me appeared capable of
being used with advantage for marking cloths.            It is made
by dissolving slowly in oil of turpentine, in a sand-bath,
continually stirring           quarter of its weight of asphal-
                              it,   a
tum, or bitumen       of Judea,   broken into small pieces, and
afterwards mixing with            as much as possible of lamp
                                     it
black, or black produced by any mineral substance what
 ever, highly coloured, and in very fine powder          either car
                                                             ;
 buret of iron, sulphuret of lead, or any other. The colour
 will be obtained more or less thick according to the pro
 portions of the oil of turpentine and bitumen            will mark
                                                            ;   it
 exceedingly   well  without  running, observing     the  just pro
 portions, and diluting         withit  new portion of oil of tur
                                                   a
 pentine,  if while      itin use
                              is      acquires too much consist
                                              it
 ency.   This  bituminous    colour   bears equally well the action
 of alkaline leys and of oxygen, and resists all acids of                  a
 certain strength.
     Finding   it unnecessary to continue the trials of oily co
 lours,I    undertook the aqueous experiments in the follow
 ing order :
     Exp.I.
         I      dissolved in four ounces of water one ounce of
  sulphate of manganese, deprived of its water of crystalliza
 tion, such as      obtained
                    is                   by
                                   procuring the oxygen gas of the
 black oxide of manganese,            means of sulphuric acid, and
                                              by
 by increasing the violence of the fire towards the conclusion
 of the operation, so as to ignite the retort. This solution
  was thickened with        dram of fine gum.dragon in powder,
                               a
  and coloured with lamp-black, to render the accuracy of
  the impression more visible, which           executed very easily
                                                       is
  with this black, saline, metallic mass, of which, how
  ever, no use can be made, excepting the ends of the
  marked cloths be plunged into alkaline ley, without pre
  viously passing       through water, to take away the saline
                         it
  matters. The ley may be made with potash or soda, in
  the proportion of one part of alkali to from nine to twelve
  parts of water    :   may be used in the state of carbonate, or
                         it
                                                                     rendered

  10      On a Colour   jor   marking the Ends of Cotton
    rendered caustic with half a part of quicklime.        The pre->
   cipitation of the oxide of manganese from marks, by one
   or the other of these alkaline leys, will take place (allowing
   for its coloration by the lamp-black) under the colour of a
   yellowish white, which will gradually turn brown by the
   attraction of the oxygen of the atmospheric air. The al
   teration of these maiks to brown will take place very spee
   dily, and even with a stronger intensity, approaching to
   black, if you bleach by means of an alkaline oxygenated
   muriatic U-y, the cloths, the ends of which have been
   plunged for a few minutes into any kind of alkaline. ley
   whatever. These marks of brown oxide of manganese re
   sist, not only all the processes of bleaching, ana all acids
   of the strength required by them, but likewise the more
  complicated processes employed in printing cloths.
      Exp. II. Had not acetic acid more affinity for manga
  nese than for iron, and were it not disengaged as easily
  from acetate of manganese as from the acetic solution of
  iron, by evaporation and desiccation, inalterable marks
  might be procured in the most simple manner, by causing
  the oxide of manganese to adhere to stuffs by means of
  acetic acid, and afterwards exposing that oxide to the at
  traction and saturation of the oxygen of the atmospheric
  air.    The acetic dissolution of manganese may very
  speedily be obtained by mixing, in suitable proportions,
  acetate of lead with a solution of sulphate of manga
 nese; but as this acetic solution possesses no advantage
 over the sulphate of manganese for marking stuffs, as it is
 necessary, before it can be used, to subject it in every re
 spect to the treatment described in Exp. I., and as it is
 much dearer, it is not adviseable to employ it.
     Exp, III. Two ounces of sulphate of" manganese dis
 solved in eight ounces of acetic solution of iron, concen
 trated to twenty degrees, furnish, when thickened with
 one-fortieth part of gum-dragon, a deep yellow colour,
 which gradually turns to a brown if treated exactly in the
 manner described in Exp. I. The acetic solution of iron
affords for the rest no other advantage than that of causing
the colour of the marks to dry rather more speedily ; for the
oxide of iron dissolves more or less rapidly in acids, in pro
portion to its state of exygenation or oxidation.         I prefer
gum-dragon      for  thickening   marking  colours   to the other
gums     and to  starch,  because  those  substances   weaken  the
colours too much by their interposition :        if,  however, in
the marking of coarse cloths, gum-dragon should be at
tended with any difficulties,   it   would then be necessary to
have recourse to starch.
                                                           Exp,

      Or Linen Cloths capable   of resisting Bleaching, &c. 1i
   Exp. IV. If, in the     disengagement of oxygen gas from
a mixture of black oxide of manganese and sulphuric acid,
care be taken not to push the fire to incandescence, the
saline residue is blackish ; but with a violent heat it turns
to a yellowish white.    On dissolving this residue you se
 parate from   it,   bywashing, an oxide of dark gray, which
                                                        a
 acquires the consistence of paste on the filter when deprived
 of the aqueous vehicle. On mixing this gray paste-like
 oxide with ever so small quantity of water, thickened with
                            a
 gum-dragon, and printing with           you obtain marks of an
                                         it,
extremely     dark  gray,  which  dry very speedily. This gray
 colour cannot be removed       bywater, though      may not have
                                                            it
 been steeped in an alkaline      ley:   itso tenacious and unal
                                              is
 terable, that  it  withstands not only the action of all the
 acids of certain strength, but likewise all the processes of
          a
 bleaching, as well as the most complicated fabrication of
 printed stuffs, without attracting the colouring parts of any
dye whatever.
    Exp. V. Were      it  not for the apprehension of weaken
 ing  alittle the place where the stuffs are marked, equal parts
of mixture of the above-mentioned gray paste and nitro-
     a                                                           a
 muriatic solution of tin, charged with one-fourth part of
 the metal, and thickened with gum-dragon, might be em
 ployed with advantage.       This colour       equally unalterable
                                                   is
with that of the preceding experiment, and            possesses the
                                                            it
additional advantage of attracting,          its oxide of tin satu
                                               by
rated with oxygen, the colouring parts of any dye whatever,
and turning to dark brown in dyeing with madder.               shall
                                                                 I
observe on this occasion, that,           by
                                           this madder. dye, the
colours of marks produced         by oxide of manganese, satu
rated with oxygen, turn to           dark brown approaching to
                                     a
black, whereas in state less oxygenated they assume shades
                     a
more or less different. However, in all these circumstances
it    necessary that there should be as much metallic oxide
     is
as possible, without which you obtain only light tints of
Various other colours.
   Exp. VI. Seeing that many insoluble metallic oxides ne
vertheless acquire the property of adhering to stuffs            by
                                                             means
of acids, resolved to try the same was the case with the
          I                  if
precipitate of manganese saturated with oxygen.            For this
purpose dissolved one part of sulphate of manganese in six
          I
parts of water; and afterwards proceeding with the precipi
tation to the point of saturation with caustic alkaline ley
                                                   a
composed of naif     a part of quicklime, four parts of water,
and one part of calcined potash of commerce,            obtained
                                                             I        a
precipitate of yellowish white.
               a                        then added to the whole
                                         I
aqueous mass    a  sufficient quantity of oxygenated muriatic
           3                                               alkaline

   12    On a Colour   for  fnarking the Ends  of Cotton Cloths.
   alkaline ley till the precipitate was completely saturated with
   oxygen, and its brown colour ceased to increase in inten
  sity.    Then collecting on a filter the precipitate, or brown
  oxide of manganese, I let it stand till, by the loss of water,
  it assumed the consistence of paste.         This brown paste
  mixed with hair.- its weight of acetic acid, as highly concen
  trated as possible, yielded only a weak brownish tint ; and it
  continued the same after the addition of any of the threeacids,
  sulphuric, muriatic, and nitric, weakened with water. I ob
  tained a result not more favourable on mixing a part of the
  above-mentioned brown paste with an equal portion of acetic
  solution of iron, marking twenty degrees on the areometer
  for saltpetre, and thickened with gum -dragon.       This acetic
  solution of iron, containing only the quantity of oxygen
  necessary for the solution of the metal, seized, by a much
 stronger affinity, the excess of the oxygen of the brown
 oxide of manganese, which was afterwards completely dis
 solved in its turn ; and from the whole resulted a mixture
 of solutions of two different metals of a reddish yellow co
 lour, very deep, and transparent : which confirms the ob
 servation, that a saturated metal requires less acid for its
 solution than if it were in a contrary state; and that,
 being then provided with an excess of acid, this solution,
 saturated with oxygen, is capable of admitting a portion of
 another metal without being disturbed.         This mixed solu
 tion of two metals yielded me only a rust yellow, which
 diluted sulphuric acid carried away entirely at the expiration
 of a time rather longer than that required to remove a less
 oxygenated rust yellow. To obtain from these two metallic
 solutions a marking colour impossible to be effaced, it was
necessary to steep the marks for some minutes in an oxy
genated muriatic alkaline ley, in order to precipitate, and
 to saturate with oxygen the oxide of manganese.           By the
mixture of another half part of the brown paste of manga-
nesewith two parts of the solution ofthe two metals, this new
portion remained unaffected, and disturbed the whole. This
turbid mixture being thickened, yielded only a faint brownish
tint on the stuff, after remaining a considerable time in di-.
luted sulphuric acid.
    By means of the muriatic solution of tin, which pos
sesses the property of seizing the oxygen of various sub
stances, vegetable, animal, and mineral, and which, for
this reason, may be advantageously employed in dyeing,
as well as in the manufacture of printed stuffs, the darkest
oxides of manganese and of iron are deprived of colour,and
instantly dissolved ; which demonstrates the more powerful
affinity of tin lor oxygen than of manganese or iron.
                                                            Note.

             Varnish   for preserving Metals from Acids.                         13
   Note. No apprehension need be entertained respecting
the effect of steeping marked cloths in an alkaline ley ; it
is an operation which is speedily performed without any
perceptible loss of potash or of soda, if you first proceed to
wash with ley, for which purpose that which is left may be
again employed.      If, conformably to the practice 1 have
followed for a number of years, the alkalies for leys were
made caustic ivith quicklime, a great quantity of soda and
potash would be saved, and at the same time a superior
effect would be produced.
III. A       Varnish which preserves Vessels made                   of   Copper or
     other Metals from             the    Action of Acids of             a certain
     Strength.  By M.             Hauffman*.
 _L o obtain from copal a varnish fit for this purpose, of a
whiteness and transparency resembling water, it is necessary
to employ copal reduced to a very fine powder, and to expose
it, with twelve parts of fine oil of turpentine, for some hours,
or till  it    completely dissolved, to the moderate heat of a
              is
sand-bath, in        capsule of glass, stone, or porcelain
                       a                                            ob      ;
serving    to stir the  whole very often with glass rod.a                    It   is
at the moment when              begins to acquire the consistence
                                  it
of syrup that the total dissolution of the copal takes place
by means of the stirring, which,            facilitated
                                               is                   by
                                                              the occa
sional addition of          small quantity of oil of turpentine to
                              a
replace that which evaporates.          Three-fourths of the oil of
turpentine    which    are lost    the   by
                                       evaporation in open vessels
may     be  saved      by
                        making    the  solution    in     long-necked
                                                               a
matrass, exposed to           sand-bath
                                  a         sufficient time to com
                                               a
plete the dissolution of the copal, shaking               at the same
                                                              it
time very frequently.         The varnish obtained                  by
                                                             one or the
other of these methods turns of              yellowish colour
                                               a                     the    if
 heat be too violent; and as its application would be difficult
when its consistence too much resembles that of honey,                            it
is  adviseable, instead of diluting          with oil of turpentine,
                                               it
to mix        with one-fourth or one.fifth of its weight of
             it                                                                  al
 cohol     taking care not to put more than                           for
                                                            by is
        ;                                              necessary,
 an excess would turn          to itmilky white
                                         a              the precipita
 tionof part of the copal, which admits into solution with                        it
 only   a  certain quantity of alcohol without being precipi
 tated.    Vessels of copper, or of any other metal, may re-
 peive one, two, or three coats of this varnish, and ought
 each time to be thorqughly dried in an oven; after which
                       •   From the Annalts de CUmie, Ho. 158.
                                                                                they

 14                   New Method of extracting
they bear extremely well to be washed with boiling water,
and are capable of resisting a heat of a still more elevated
temperature without losing the varnish ; but at all events
care should be taken not to rub the vessels with sand, or
any other hard bodies.
      IV.   Neiv Method of extracting raw Sugar             from   the
                 Beet-root. By M. ACHARD*.
  JL HE beet-roots, properly cleansed, must be subjected to
 the press, by which a thick juice of a dark colour will be
 obtained ; which, besides sugar, contains also albumen, ex
 tractive matter, and other substances, which must be sepa
 rated before sugar can be obtained. In this separation con
 sists the principal part of the process.
     In a tin or tinned copper boiler mix 100 pounds of the
juice of the beet-root with three ounces six drams of sul
 phuric acid, diluted in one pound of water, and immediately
 pour the matter into vessels, in which it must be left stand
 ing twelve, eighteen, or twenty-four hours. Twelve hours
are sufficient, but it cannot sustain any injury in twenty-
four, as the acid prevents any alteration of the juice. To
separate the sulphuric acid, incorporate with the juice seven
ounces and a half of wood ashes, and afterwards two ounces
six drams and a half of lime slaked with water. The sul
phuric acid coagulates the albumen, and the ashes, with
the lime afterwards added, separate the acid in the form of
a salt not very soluble.       Indeed, it is a well known fact,
that in the manufactories of raw sugar in the West Indies,
as well as in our sugar-houses in Europe, lime is employed
to promote the separation and crystallization of sugar.
    Whis this operation has been performed, it is necessary
to clarify the juice of the beet-root , for which purpose it is
removed into a boiler, set in such a manner that the fire
can act only on its bottom.- The fire is increased to a de-
       approaching to ebullition without stirring the liquid,
   he fire is then extinguished, and the scum is taken off as
¥ree
fast as it rises, in the form of large black flakes. The li
quor is afterwards passed through a wooden strainer, taking
the precaution not to shake it too much, lest the sediment
should he mixed with       it,
                             and atop the pores of the strainer.
The scum and the dirt left upon the filter serve as food for
pigs.
  The juice, thus clarified       and filtered, is poured into           a
boiler, with   a   flat bottom, to the height of only six inches,
                     • From Neues   Journal   der Chtmit.
                                                                     and

                Raw Sugar from    the Beet-root.             15
and is then evaporated with a brisk fire. By this method
the juice is prevented from being converted into a mucoso-
saccharine liquid, which resists crystallization.
   When, by evaporation, the liquid is reduced to half its
quantity, remove it into vessels, six feet high and six inches
wide, having a cock at the distance of six inches from the
bottom ; and there let it remain two or three days.     In thi*
interval the juice deposits the rest of its impurities, and
especially the gypsum which it retained. At the end of
this time drawoff the liquid, and pour it again, but only
to the height of three inches, into the evaporating copper,
and proceed to thicken it by a fire, gradually augmented to
ebullition. In proportion as the sugar becomes concen
trated, care must he taken to diminish the fire, to prevent it
from burning, which would render it quite unfit to be con
verted into loaf sugar. When the juice has acquired the
necessary consistence, the fire must immediately be taken
from under the boiler.     In half an hour pour the juice, thus
boiled to a due consistence, into cones or moulds, the points
of which are covered with a piece of linen cloth, and into
which has been put a small quantity of sugar-candy broken
into coarse pieces ; after which remove the moulds into a
 place whose temperature is between ten and twenty degrees
of Reaumur's thermometer. When the different operations
have been well executed, the greatest part of the sugar is
crystallized in the space of twenty-four hours.         If it is
boiled too much, the whole is converted into a granulated
mass, the interstices of which are filled with melasses.
    When all the sugar is well crystallized, uncover the point
 of the mould, and place it over an earthen vessel, that the
 melasses may drain off : this, according as the juice is more
or less boiled, requires three or four weeks. The sugar
 remains in the moulds, of a yellow colour, more or less
 white, and in crystalline grains, of a larger or smaller size,
 according to the success of the process.
    M. Achard, with a view to save time, and to dispense
 with the necessity of employing vessels for settling, made
 an alteration in this method, which he at first followed. To
 the juice, when half evaporated, and gently boiling, he
 added, for 1,200 pounds of the roots, five quarts of skimmed
 milk, and a little afterwards one quart of vinegar, and in
 this manner effected the second clarification immediately
 in the boiler.
    By the process of refining, all the products furnished by
 West India sugar may be obtained from this sugar of beet
 root, and by claying it may be rendered equally white.
                                                         V. An

                                   C    16    ]
    V. An experimental Essay             on  Salt   as a   Manure, and       as
       a Condiment mixed u/ith the Food of Animals.                   By   ttte
       Rev. EDMUND CARTWRIGHT, of woburn*.
    WERK the beneficial effects of salt as a manure to be
  .once fairly ascertained, there can be no doubt but the wis
   dom of the legislature would devise some means by which,
   without prejudice to the revenue, the farmer might apply
   it to the purposes of agriculture.
      At present the use of salt as a manure is a subject on
   which the public opinion is much divided : its advocates,
   reasoning from the striking effects of salt water on the
   marshes which are occasionally irrigated by the sea at
  spring tides, conclude that the fertilizing virtue of such
  irrigation is owing to its saline quality, without taking into
  consideration the quantity of ammal and vegetable matter
  which sea water (particularly near the coast, and where
  rivers disembogue themselves) must necessarily hold in so
  lution.
      Those who maintain a contrary opinion, considering salt
 merely as an antiseptic, satisfy themselves that it is impos
 sible that any thing can be friendly to vegetation which re
 tards putrefaction ; a process indispensable in substances
 that are to be the food of plants.             To get over this diffi
 culty, it has been conjectured, nay, there have not been
 wanting those (and of great name too) who have even at
 tempted to prove, that salt in small quantities accelerates,
 as in large quantities it is known to resist, putrefaction ; a
 doctrine to which, however, I shall not willingly yield my
 assent, till I can be persuaded that effects are not, in all
 cases, proportionate to their causes.                 The operation of
 every    cause   is, and    must    be,   uniform   ; and when, to ap
 pearance,    it   is not   so,  some     other  cause     obtrudes itself,
 too subtile     for  our    observation,     which,     operating at the
 same time with the primary cause, joins in giving a result,
 whicli not being able to account for, we consider as ano
malous.
     That theorists should be at variance with each other is
not to be wondered at ; for, having the wide field of ima
gination and conjecture before them to expatiate in, it is
reasonable to conclude, indeed it is unavoidable, that some
of them must lose their way. But what shall we say to the
disagreement and inconsistency which prevail on this sub-
    * From the Communication»   to the Board  of Agriculture, which adjudged
to the author the gold medal for thi> euay,
                                                                        ject

                   On Salt as a Manure,        &c.              17
ject amongst practical     farmers ?    Nothing, indeed, can be
 more contradictory than the different reports that have been
 made on the effects of salt, as a manure, by those who have
 even brought it to the test of actual experiment.       As there
 is no reason to question the veracity of the reporters, we
 must look for the grounds of their disagreement in some
 predominating circumstance or other, which at the time
 escaped their observation.        Indeed, the success or failure
 of an agricultural experiment depends so frequently on
 causes which can neither be controlled nor foreseen, and
 so foreign from those which were expected to operate, that
 it is not to be wondered at if the repetition of the very same
 experiment gives oftentimes a different result.
    As it is not the business of this paper to support a theory,
 but to detail what has been practised ; not to contend for
 an opinion, but to state facts; the few observations which
 may be hazarded will be such only as are required merely
 in explanation of occurrences as they arise.       I shall endea
 vour to give, therefore, as simple a relation as possible of
 the experiments I have tried, to ascertain the advantages or
 disadvantages which may attend the use of salt as a manure,
 and also when mixed with the food of animals.
     It may be necessary, first of all, to premise, that the soil
 on which my experiments were tried is a ferruginous sand,
 brought to a due texture and consistence by a liberal cover
 ing of pond mud.         Of this soil, in its improved state I
 mean, by the accession of pond mud (for, having been used
 merely as a nursery for raising forest trees previous to these
 experiments, the nursery-man had not thought it necessary
  to make use of any other manure), the following is the
 analysis-:
                                                             Grains.
  400 grains gave of siliceous sand of different degrees
     of fineness about           -         -      -  -        280
 Of finely divided matter, which appeared in the form
     of clay          -         -          -         -        104
  Loss in water          -          -        -       -         16
                                                              400
  The   104 grains of finely divided matter contained of
     carbonate  of lime           -          -         -       18
  Of oxide of iron         -                                     7
  Loss by incineration (most probably from vegetable
     decomposing matter)              -        -       -       17
     The remainder principally silex and alumine.
     Vol. 23. No. 89. Oct. 1805.         B                   There

 18        On Salt as a Manure, and as a Condiment
    There were no indications of either gypsum or phosphate
of lime.
    It will  appear from the above analysis that these experi
ments could not perhaps have been tried on a soil better
adapted to give impartial results ; for of its component parts
there is no ingredient (the oxide of iron possibly excepted)
of sufficient activity to augment or restrain the peculiar
energies of the substances employed.
    On the 14th of April 1804, a certain portion of this soil
was laid out in beds one yard wide and forty long. Of
these, twenty-five were manured (the first excepted) as fol
lows :
      No.  1.  No manure.
           2. Salt,  ^ peck.
           3. Lime, one bushel.
           4. Soot, one peck.
           5. Wood-ashes, two pecks.
           6. Saw-dust, three bushels.
           7. Malt-dust, two pecks.
           8. Peat, three bushels.
           9. Decayed leaves, three bushels.
          10. Fresh dung, three bushels.
         1 1 . Chandler's graves, nine pounds.
         12. Salt, lime.
         13. Salt, lime, sulphuric acid
         14. Salt, lime, peat.
         15. Salt, lime, dung.
         1 6. Salt, lime, gypsum, peat.
         17- Salt, soot.                   N. B. The quanti
         18. Salt, wood-ashes.                ties of each ingre
         19. Salt, saw-dust.                  dient the same as
         20. Salt, malt-dust.                 when used singly.
         21. Salt, peat.
         22. Salt, peat, bone-dust.
         23. Salt, decayed leaves.
         24. Salt, peat-ashes.
         25. Salt, chandler's graves.
   On the same day the whole was planted with potatoes,
a single row in each bed ; and, that the general experiment
might be conducted with all possible accuracy, each bed
received the same number of sets.
   On the 14th of May, a few days after the plants ap
peared above ground, the whole was carefully examined,
and the comparative excellence of each row (as far at least
as could be judged of by appearances)      was as carefully re
                                                        gistered.

                 mixed with the Food of Animals.          19
gistered.      The best row was decidedly No. 7, malt-dust,
after which they followed as under :
   No. 11. Chandler's graves.
          16. Salt, lime, gypsum, peat.
          25. Salt, graves.
          20. Salt, malt-dust.
            9. Decayed leaves.
            4. Soot.
            2. Salt.
            1 . No manure.
            5. Wood-ashes.
            8. Peat.
          13. Salt, lime, sulphuric acid.
          14. Salt, lime, peat.
          17* Salt, soot.
          18. Salt, wood-ashes.
          21. Salt, peat.
          22. Salt, peat, bone-dust.
          23. Salt, decayed leaves.
            3. Lime.
            6. Saw-dust.
          1 0. Fresh dung.
          12. Salt, lime.
          15. Salt, lime, dung.
          24. Salt, peat-ashes.
          19. Salt, saw-dust.
   On the 28th of May, fourteen days afterwards, the ap
parent vigour of the plants was in the following order .
     No. 7. Malt-dust.
          11. Chandler's graves.
            4. Soot.
            8. Peat.
          16. Salt, lime, gypsum, peat.
          17. Salt, soot.
          20. Salt, malt-dust.
          21. Salt, peat.
          23. Salt, decayed leaves.
          25. Salt, graves.
            1. No manure.
            2. Salt.
            5. Wood-ashes.
            9. Decayed leaves.
          13. Salt, lime, sulphuric acid.
          14. Salt, lime, peat.
          18. Salt, wood-ashes.
         24. Salt, peat-ashes.
                               B 2                10. Fresh

   20        On Salt as a Manure, and as a Condiment
           10. Fresh dung.
             3. Lime.
           22. Salt,    peat, bone-dust.
           19.   Salt,  saw-dust.
           15.   Salt,  lime, dung.
           12.   Salt, lime.
             6.  Saw-  dust.
      On the 21st of September the potatoes were taken up,
  when the produce of each row was in succession as fol
  lows :
                             ...
           17. Salt and soot produced                   240
           1 1 . Chandler's graves                -     220
           18. Salt, wood-ashes                    -    217
           16. Salt, gypsum, peat, lime           -     201
          15. Salt, lime, dung                    -     199
            2. Salt                               -     198
          25. Salt, graves                        -     195
            4. Soot           -                   -     192
          10. Fresh dung                          -     192
          20. Salt, malt-dust                     -     189
            5. Wood-ashes                         -     187
          23. Salt, decayed leaves               -      187
          24. Salt, peat -ashes                  -     185
            7. Malt-dust                         -     184
          14. Salt, lime,     peat               -     183
          19. Salt, saw-dust                     -     180
         22. Salt, peat, bone-dust               -     178
           9. Decayed leaves                     -     175
         13. Salt, lime, sulphuric acid          -     175
         21. Salt, peat                          -     171
                               ...
         12. Salt, lime                          -     167
           8. Peat           -                  -      159
           1 . No manure                        -      157
           6. Saw-dust                          -      155
           3. Lime                              -      150
    The foregoing table furnishes many particulars worthy
of observation. In the first place it is remarkable, that of
ten different manures, most of which are of known and
acknowledged efficacy, salt, a manure hitherto of an am
biguous character, is superior to them all, one only ex
cepted ! And again, when used in combination with other
substances, it is only unsuccessfully applied in union with
that one, namely, chandler's graves, no other manure
seemingly being injured by it.          Possibly its deteriorating
effects on chandler's graves may be owing to its antiseptic
property, which retards the pulsefactive process by which
                                                           animal

                mixed with tlie Food  of Animals.                21
animal substances undergo the changes necessary to qualify
them to become the food of plants. This, however, I can
not, from any appearance in the soil when the plants were
taken up, assert to have been the case.
   The extraordinary effects of salt, when combined with
soot, are strikingly singular.     There is no reason to sup
pose these effects were produced by any known chemical
agency of soot or salt on each other.     VVere I to guess at
the producing cause, I should conjecture it to be that pro
perty of saline substances by which they attract moisture
from the atmosphere; for I observed those beds where salt
had been used were visibly and palpably moister than the
rest, even for weeks after the salt had been applied ; and
this appearance continued till rain fell, when of course the
distinction ceased. .This property of attracting moisture
had greater influence possibly on the soot than on any of
the other manures, as soot, from its acrid and dry nature,
may be supposed to require a greater proportion of water to
dilute it than those substances which contain water already.
It may be proper to observe, that on those beds where salt
had been used the plants were obviously of a paler green
than on the rest, though not less luxuriant ; a circumstance
which I thought worth noticing, and which I considered, N
though erroneously (as appeared by the event), to indicate
a want of                                                   It was
             vigour, which would be felt in the crop.
observable also, that where salt was applied, whether by
itself, or in combination, the roots were free from that
 scabbiness    which oftentimes infects potatoes,        and from
which none of the other beds (and there were in the field
nearly forty more than what made part of these experi
 ments) were altogether exempt.
    Two sets of experiments, and with the same proportions
of manures, were tried with turnips and buck-wheat, on a
soil the poorest I could meet with, which produced only a
dwarf heath and lichen, and which I had had pared off.
 The poverty of this soil will appear by the following ana
 lysis :
                                                             Grains.
    400 grains gave of siliceous sand         -      -        320
    Of finely divided matter, whieh appeared    as brown
       mould          -          -         -           -       68
    Loss  in water        -         -        -                  12
                                                              400
The finely divided matter lost by incineration nearly half
                              B 3                                its

 22       On Salt af a Manure, and as a Condiment
  its weight ; which shows it contained a great deal of vege
  table matter.    The residuum principally a mixture of alu
  minous and siliceous earths, coloured red by oxide of iron,
  and containing very little calcareous matter.         There were
  no indications of either gypsum or phosphate of lime.
     July 6, 1 804, the pieces set apart for each set of experi
  ments were respectively sown with turnips and buck-wheat.
     On the 26-ih, Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 19, 20, 21, 22,
  84, 25, showed little or no marks of vegetation.          The re
 mainder were merely in the seed-leaf.
     On the 16th ot August four only were alive, and in
  rough leaf, namely,
     No. 12. Salt and lime.
           13. Salt, lime, and sulphuric acid.
          14. Salt, lime, peat.
          16. Salt, lime, gypsum, peat.
     These four maintained a sickly existence till the middle
 of September; shortly after which they all disappeared. —
 N. B. The appearances of the turnips and buck-wheat were
 so nearly uniform, I have not thought it necessary to notice
 the trifling variations between them, which could not have
 been done without entering into a minute detail, equally
 tedious and uninteresting.
     Though nothing decisive can probably be drawn from
 these two sets of experiments respecting the advantages or
 disadvantages of salt as a manure, on such a soil as I have
 described, "because other manures of acknowledged efficacy
 shared the same fate with the salt ; yet this inference, how
ever, may be drawn from them (and that not an unimpor
tant one), namely, that a due texture and consistence in
the soil is as necessary to the existence and health of vege
tables, as the pabulum they are sustained by ; and this ap
pears evidently by the superiority, such as it was, of those
plants where the manure contributed in any degree to im
prove that texture and consistence.
    Adjoining to the place where these experiments were
tried is a field, which fully confirms this observation.
Within these few years, a great part of it was in a state
of uncultivated nature, equally barren as the spot I have
been speaking of; it     is,however, now brought into culti
vation, and into   a   decent state of fertility, chiefly from its.
texture having been improved        bya  thick coating of marly
clay.
    In trying the effects of salt, when mixed with the food
of animals, I   have made no experiments on sheep, as      I    did
not apprehend that few limited experiments would either
                     a
                                                             thro\v

                mixed with the Food       of Animals.       23
 throw new light upon a subject which has already been
 sufficiently discussed, as applied to those animals, or fur
 nish the public with facts of which it is not already in pos
 session. My experiments have therefore been confined to
hogs and cows.
    On July 23d, 1 804, three hogs of tfie same litter, about
eight months old, were put up to fatten. Their respective
weights were as follow :
                       No. 1. 44 lbs.
                             2. 47 lbs.
                             3. 40 lbs.
    From the 23d of July till the 7th of August they were
fed   with barley-meal mixed up with water; during which
time they consumed three bushels and a half of barley, and
gained in weight    as  follows  :
                       No.   1. 12 lbs.
                             2. 10 lbs.
                             3.    5 lbs.
    From the    3d of August to the 21st, they had salt mixed
with their food, of which they consumed one quarter of a
pound per day.       The food consumed was four bushels :
they had gained upon the last weighing as under :
                       No. 1. 18 lbs.
                             2. 22 lbs.
                             3. 14 lbs.
    From the 21st of August to the 3d of September the salt
was discontinued, in which time they ate four bushels and
 a half of barley-mealy and their increase of weight was,
                       No. 1. 24 lbs.
                             2. 21 lbs.
                             3. 21 lbs.
    From the 3d of September to the 17th they had salt
as before, and their consumption of food was the same as
during the last fortnight, namely, four bushels and a half
of barley-meal.     Their gain of weight was,
                       No. 1. 31 lbs.
                             2. 19 lbs.
                             3. 19 lbs.                |
         They were then slaughtered.
   It  did not appear that the salt had any operation either
in promoting thirst or stimulating their appetites, the con
sumption of food being nearly the same whether salted or
not ; neither does it appear that the salt had any influence
on their fattening ; perhaps the quantity allowed them was
too little 3 and yet I should think not, as there was enough
                                B4                          to

  S4        On Salt as a Manure, and as a Condiment
 to make their whole mass of food sufficiently savoury to the
  human taste.
     In trying this experiment it will be observed, that I did
 not confine one parcel of hogs to salt, and another to un-
 salicd food.    This mode of trying experiments is always
 uncertain, as there will be frequently particular habits and
 tendencies in the individual animals which will vary the
 results, and prevent their being uniform. The fairest way,
 and that which is the least liable to error, is to compare
 each animal with himself, by feeding him at one period
 with one kind of food, and then, for an equal period, with
 another.    If this principle which I have proceeded upon be
 right, there is nothing in these experiments to encourage
the practice of administering salt to hogs with a view at
 least to increase their tendency to fatten ; how far it may
contribute to keep them in health is a different question,
and on which years of experience may probably be neces
sary to decide.     Now I am upon this subject I shall men
tion (though totally foreign from the object of this essay),
that for most internal disorders which hogs are liable to, all
of which may be supposed to be more or less accompanied
with fever, I find no remedy so efficacious as antimony.
This mineral is said to have obtained its name from the
head of a religious house, who had administered it with
success to his hogs, giving it in such quantities to the
monks of his order as to poison them : a circumstance
which probably brought it at the time into disrepute as a
medicine, as well for the real as the metaphorical hogs.
The aneedote, however, whether tru? or false, induced me
some years ago to try it upon hogs ; and I can safely aver
that, when taken in time, there are few internal diseases
which hogs are subject to that will not yield to antimony
in some form or other. That form which I prefer is emetic
tartar, as lying in small compass. I give it in doses from
five to forty or fifty grains, according to the age and strength
of my patient ; and I believe still larger doses might be given
with equal safety, as I do not recollect a single instance in
which the animal seemed to suffer from being over-dosed.
    To persons who have not tried the effects of antimony
on the brute creation, the quantity I give may seem to be
strangely disproportionate to the bulk of the hog compared
with that of a man; but the experience of many years has
convinced me that there is no analogy ([ mean as far as
quantity is concerned) in the effects of antimony on the
human constitution, and on the constitution of inferior
animals.
                                                             On

               mixed with the Food   of Animals.            25
   On the 9th of October 1804, my experiments on cows
commenced.        On that day two Welch heifers, one of
which had calved about five months, the other three, were
confined to the house, and fed with hay for the space of
one fortnight.     The hay they consumed during that time
was four hundred weight nineteen pounds, and the milk
they produced was thirty-six gallons three quarts. They
had then, for the next fortnight, salt mixed with their hay,
the hay being first slightly moistened with water, and the
salt sprinkled over it ; in which time they consumed four
hundred weight forty-two pounds of hay, and seven pounds
of salt. The milk produced was thirty-seven gallons. For
the next fortnight, namely, from the sixth to the twentieth
of November, the salt was omitted, and their food was four
hundred weight and one quarter of hay, and two hundred
weight and a half of cabbages.       The produce of milk in
that space of time was fifty-four gallons three quarts. From
the twentieth of November their food was the same as be
fore, with the addition of half a pound of salt per day. The
produce of milk was fifty-seven gallons one quart.
   It will be recollected, that salt seemed to have no ten
dency to promote thirst or to increase appetite in the hogs;
yet on the cows its effects in one respect were very percepti
ble, for during the period they had salt they drank three
gallons a day each more than at other times.
    Salt may possibly promote digestion, notwithstanding its
antiseptic quality, by stimulating the salival glands ancfthe
glands yielding the gastric juice, and by inducing an in
creased discharge of their respective fluids, so necessary to
the solubility of the different substances received into the
stomach before they can be admitted into the lacteals.
   Though there may be nothing in the foregoing experi
ments to lead us to suppose that salt has any otherwise a
 tendency to promote a disposition in animals to fatten than
as it may contribute to their health by aiding their digestion,
yet it is probable that, when administered to animals yield
ing milk, it may contribute in some small degree to increase
that secretion ; and this it may do by promoting thirst,
which induces the animal to. drink copiously ; in conse
quence of which the secretion of milk, as well as all other
 secretions of the fluids, may be augmented.      Perhaps also
it may have a stimulating influence on the lacteals them
selves.
    And yet,   after all, admitting these experiments to prove
that salt increases in some small degree the production of
                                                         milk,

  26                  On the Analysis       of Soils.
  milk, —when that increased quantity is balanced against the
 price of the salt, the dairy-man will find himself no gainer.
     Though there does not seem any thing in these experi
 ments, either with hogs or cows, to encourage the practice
 of giving salt to animals with a view to increase their dis
  position to fatten, yet it would be temerity to affirm that
 it is entirely useless.      From the avidity with which most
 if   not  all  kinds of  graminivorous animals, whether in a
 state of domestication or otherwise, are known to eat salt
 whenever it comes in their way, it is reasonable to conclude
 that the propensity has not been implanted in them in vain.
 But from whatever cause its salutary effects may be sup
 posed to proceed, whether (as was hinted at before) from
 its promoting digestion and an increased secretion of fluids,
 or from any other action it may have on the animal ceco-
nomy, it must be left to an experimenter more successful
than I have been, to ascertain.
VI.     On the Analysis of Soils, as connected with their Im
     provement. By Humphrey Davy, Esq. F.R.S. Pro
    fessor of Chemistry to the Board of Agriculture and to
     the  Royal Institution*.
   I.  Utility of Investigation relating    to the  Analysis of Soibs.
The        methods of improving lands are immediately con
nected with the knowledge ot the chemical nature of soils,
and experiments on their composition appear capable of
many useful applications.
     The importance of this subject has been already felt by
some very able cultivators of science; many useful facts
and observations with regard to it have been furnished by
Mr. Young ; it has been examined by Lord Dundonald, in
his treatise on the connexion of chemistry with agriculture,
and by Mr. Kirwan in his excellent essay on manures : but
the inquiry is still far from being exhausted, and new me
thods of elucidating it are almost continually offered, in
consequence of the rapid progress of chemical discovery.
     In the following pages I shall have the honour of laying
before the Board an account of those methods of analysing
soils which appear most precise and simple, and most likely
to be useful to the practical farmer ; they are founded part
ly upon the labours of the gentlemen whose names have
             •
               From Communications to the Board of Agriculture.
                                                                 been

                     On the Analysis    of Soils.               27
been   just mentioned, and partly upon        some later improve
ments.
              II. Of   the Substances  found in Soils.
   The    substances    which are found in soils, are certain
mixtures or combinations of some of the primitive earths,
animal and vegetable matter in a decomposing state, certain
saline compounds, and the oxide of iron.             These bodies
alwavs   retain  water,  and exist  in very  different proportions
in different lands ; and the end of analytical experiments is
the detection of their quantities and mode of union.
   The earths found in common soils are principally silex, or
the earth of flints, alumine, or the pure matter of clay,
lime, or calcareous earth, and magnesia.
   Silex, or the earth of flints, when perfectly pure, appears
in the form of a white powder, which is incombustible,
infusible, insoluble in water, and not acted upon by com
mon acids ; it is the substance which constitutes the prin
cipal part of rock crystal ; it composes a considerable part
of hard gravelly soils, of hard sandy soils, and of hard
stony lands.
   Alumine, or pure clay, in its perfect state is white like
silex; it adheres strongly to the tongue, is incombustible,
insoluble in water, but soluble in acids, and in fixed alka
line menstrua.       It abounds most in clayey soils and clayey
loams ; but even in the smallest particles of these soils it is
usually united to silex and oxide of iron.
   Lime is the substance well known in its pure state under
the name of quicklime.          It always exists in soils in com
bination, and that principally with fixed air or carbonic
acid; when it is called carbonate of lime; a substance
which in the most compact form constitutes marble, and
in its looser form chalk.      Lime, when combined witb sul
phuric acid (oil of vitriol), produces sulphate of lime
(gypsum), and with phosphoric acid, phosphate of lime.
The carbonate of lime, mixed with otber substances, com
poses chalky soils and marles, and it is found in soft sandy
soils.
   Magnesia, when pure, appears as white, and in a lighter
            than any of the other earths; it is soluble in acid,
Eowder,
  ut not in alkaline menstrua ; it is rarely found in soils ;
when it does exist, it is either in combination with carbonic
acid, or with silex and alumine.
   Animal decomposing matter exists in very different
states, according as the substances from which it is pro
duced are different; it contains much carbonaceous sub
                                                            stance.

    28                 On the Analysis    of Soils.
    stance, and may be principally resolved by heat into this
    substance, volatile alkali, inflammable aeriform products,
    and carbonic acid ; it is principally found in lands that have
    been lately manured.
       Vegetable decomposing matter is likewise very various in
   kind; it contains usually more carbonaceous substance than
    animal matter, and differs from it in the results of its de
   composition principally in not producing volatile alkali ;
   it forms a great proportion of all peats ; it abounds in rich
   mould, and is found iu larger or smaller quantities in all
   lands.
      The saline compounds found in soils are very few, and
   in quantities so small, that they are rarely to be discovered.
  They are principally muriate of soda (common salt), sul
  phate of magnesia (Epsom salt), and muriate and sulphate
  of potash, nitrate of lime, and the mild alkalies.
      1 he oxide of iron is the same with the rust produced by
  exposing iron to-the air and water; it is found in all soils,
  but is most abundant in yellosv and red clays, and in yel
  low and red siliceous sands.
      A more minute account of these different substances
  would be incompatible with the object of this paper.           A
  full description of their properties and agencies may be
  found in the elementary books on chemistry, and particu
 larly in the System of Chemistry by Dr. Thomson (2d ed.) ;
  and in Henry-s Epitome of Chemistry.
       III.  Instruments required  for  tlie Analysis of Soils.
     The really important instruments required for the analysis
 of soils   are few, and but little expensive.      They are a ba-
 Jance capable of containing a quarter of a pound of com
 mon soil, and capable of turning when loaded with a grain ;
 a series of weights from a quarter of a pound troy to a grain ;
 a wire     sieve, sufficiently coarse to admit a pepper-corn
 through its apertures; an Argand lamp and stand ; some
 glass bottles ; Hessian crucibles ; porcelain or queen-s
ware evaporating basons ; a Wedgewood pestle and mortar;-
some filters made of half a sheet of blotting-paper,        folded
so as to contain a pint of liquid, and greaseg at the edges ;
a bone knife, and an apparatus for collecting and measusing
aeriform fluids.
     The chemical substances or reagents required for sepa
rating the constituent parts of the soil, are muriatic acid
(spirit of salt), sulphuric acid, pure volatile alkali dissolved
in water, solution of prussiate of potash, soap lye, solution
of carbonate of ammonia, of muriate of ammonia, solu
                                                              tion

                      On the Analysis  of Soils.                 29
 tion of neutral carbonate of potash, and nitrate of ammo
 nia. An account of the nature of these bodies, and their
 effects, may be found in the chemical works already no
 ticed ; and the reagents are sold, together with the instru
 ments mentioned above, by Mr. Knight, Foster Lane,
 Cheapside, arranged in an appropriate chest.
           IV.  Mode    of collecting Soils for Analysis.
     In cases  when the general nature of the soil of a     field is
 to be ascertained, specimens of it should be taken from
 different places, two or three inches below the surface, and
 examined as to the similarity of their properties. It some
 times happens, that upon plains the whole of the upper stra
 tum of the landisof the same kind, and in this case one ana
 lysis will be sufficient; but in valleys, and near the beds of
 rivers, there are very great differences, and it now and then
 occurs that one part of a field is calcareous, and another
 part siliceous ; and in this case, and in analogous cases, the
 portions different from each other should be separately sub
 mitted to experiment.
    Soils, when collected, if they cannot be immediately ex
amined, should be preserved in phials quite filled with them,
 and closed with ground glass stoppers.
    The quantity of soil most convenient for a perfect analy
sis is from two to four hundred grains.          It should be col
lected in dry weather, and exposed to the atmosphere till it
becomes dry to the touch.
    The specific gravity of a soil, or the relation of its weight
to that of water, may be ascertained by introducing into a
phial, which will contain a known quantitv of water, equal
volumes of water and of soil ; and this may be easily done
by pouring in water till it is half full, and then adding the
soil till the fluid rises to the mouth ; the difference between
the weight of the soil and that of the water will give the
result. Thus, if the bottle contains four hundred grains
of water, and gains two hundred grains when half filled
with water and half with soil, the specific gravity of the
soil will be two, that is, it will be twice as heavy as water;
and if it gained one hundred and sixtv-five grains, its spe
cific gravity would be 1825, water being 1000.
    It is of importance that the specific gravity of a soil
should be known, as it affords an indication of the quantitv
of animal and vegetable matter it contains ; these sub
stances being always most abundant in the lighter soils.
    The other physical properties of soils should likewise be
 examined before the analysis is made, as they denote, to a
            3                                              certain

 3O                       On the Analysis      of Soils.
 certain extent, their composition, and serve as guides in
 directing the experiments.              Thus, siliceous soils are gene
 rally rough         to the  touch,   and   scratch glass when rubbed
 upon       it;   aluminous     soils  adhere   strongly to the tongue,
 and emit a strong earthy smell when breathed on ; and cal
 careous soils are soft, and much less adhesive than alumi
 nous soils.
     V. Mode of ascertaining             the Quantity      of Water of
                            Absorption in Soils.
     Soils, though as dry as they can be made by continued
 exposure to air, in all cases still contain a considerable
 quantity of water, which adheres with great obstinacy to
 the earths and animal and vegetable matter, and can only
 be driven off from them by a considerable degree of heat.
The first process of analysis is, to free the given weight of
 soil from as much of this water as possible, without, in
 other respects, affecting its composition ; and this may be
done by heating it for ten or twelve minutes over an Ar-
 gand-s lamp, in a bason of porcelain, to a temperature
equal to 300* Fahrenheit; and in case a thermometer is not
used, the proper degree may be easily ascertained, by keep
ing a piece of wood in contact with the bottom of the dish:
as long as the colour of the wood remains unaltered, the
heat is not too high ; but when the wood begins to be
charred, ihe process must be stopped. A small quantity
of water will perhaps remain in the soil even after this
operation, but it always affords useful comparative results ;
and if a higher temperature were employed, the vegetable
or animal matter would undergo decomposition, and in
consequence the experiment be wholly unsatisfactory.
    The loss of weight in the process should be carefully
noted ; and when in four hundred grains of soil it reaches
as high as 50, the soil may be considered as in the greatest
degree absorbent, and retentive of water, and will generally
be found to contain a large proportion of aluminous earth.
When the loss is only from 20 to 10, the land may be con
sidered as only slightly absorbent and retentive, and the sili
ceous earth as most abundant.
                                                         4
VI.       Of    the   Separation of Stones, Gravel,          and vegetable
                            Fibres from Soils.
    None of        the loose stones, gravel, or large vegetable fibres
   * In
          several experiments, in which this process has been carried on by
distillation, I have found the water that came over pure, and no sensible
quantity of other volatile matter was produced.
                                                                     should

                    On the Analysis  of Soils.                 3I
6hould be divided from thepuresoil till after the water is drawrt
off; for these bodies are themselves often highly absorbent
and retentive, and in consequence influence the fertilitv of
the land. The next process, however, after that of heating,
should be their separation, which may be easilv accomplish
ed by the sieve, after the soil has been gently bruised in a
mortar.     The weights of the vegetable fibres or wood, and
of the gravel and stones, should De separately noted down,
and the nature of the last ascertained: if calcareous, they will
effervesce with acids ; if siliceous, they will be sufficiently
hard to scratch glass ; and if of the common aluminous
class of stones, they will be soft, easily scratched with a
knife, and incapable of effervescing with acids.
VII.   Separation  of the Sand and Clay, or Loam, from each
                              other.
   The   greater number   of soils, besides gravel and stones,
contain    larger or smaller proportions of sand of different
degrees of fineness ; and it is a necessary operation, the
next in the process of analysis, to detach them from the
        in a state of more minute division, such as clay,
 oam, marie, and vegetable and animal matter. This may
f>arts
be effected in a way sufficiently accurate, by agitation of
the soil in water.    In this case, the coarse sand will gene
rally separate in a minute, and the finer in two or three
minutes ; whilst the minutely divided earthy, animal, or
vegetable matter will remain in a state of mechanical sus
pension for a much longer time ; so that, by pouring the
water from the bottom of the vessel, after one, two, or
three minutes, the sand will be principally separated from
the other substances, which, with the water containing
them, must be poured into a filter, and, after the water has
passed through, collected, dried and weighed.        The sand
must likewise be weighed, and their respective quantities
noted down.      The water of lixiviation mu3t be preserved,
as it will be found to contain the saline matter, and the
soluble animal or vegetable matters, if any exist in the
soil.
               VlH.    Examination   of  the Sand.
   By the process of washing and filtration, the soil is se
parated  into two portions, the most important of which is
generally the finely divided matter.      A minute analysis of
the sana is seldom or never necessary, and its nature may
be detected in the same manner as that of the stones or
gravel. It is always either siliceous sand, or calcareous
                                                            sand,

   82                  On the Analysis     of Soils.
  sand, or a mixture of both.          If it consist wholly of car
  bonate of lime, it will be rapidly soluble in muriatic acid,
  with effervescence ; but if it consist partly of this sub
  stance, and partly of siliceous matter, the respective quan
  tities may be ascertained by weighing the residuum after
  the action of the acid, which must be applied till the mix
  ture has acquired a sour taste, and has ceased to effervesce.
  This residuum is the siliceous part : it must be washed,
  dried, and heated strongly in a crucible : the difference be
  tween the weight of it and the weight of the whole, indi
  cates the proportion of calcareous sand.
  IX.    Examination of     the Jinely divided Matter of Soils,
         and Mode    of detecting mud Lime and Magnesia.
      The finely divided matter of     the soil is usually very com
  pound    in its  nature ; it  sometimes      contains all the four
 primitive    earths  of  soils,   as well  as  animal and vegetable
 matter ; and to ascertain the proportions of these with to
 lerable accuracy, is the most difficult part of the subject.
     The first process to be performed, in this part of the ana
 lysis, is the exposure of the fine matter of the soil to the
 action of the muriatic acid. This substance should be
 poured upon the earthy matter in an evaporating bason, in
 a quantity equal to twice the weight of the earthy matter ;
 but diluted with double its volume of water. The mixture
 should be often stirred, and suffered to remain for an hour
 or an hour and a half before it is examined.
      If any carbonate of lime or of magnesia exist in the soil,
 they will have been dissolved in this time by the acid, which
 sometimes takes up likewise a little oxide of iron ; but very
 seldom any alumine.
     The flind should be passed through a filter; the solid
matter collected, washed with rain water, dried at a mode
 rate heat, and weighed.        Its loss will denote the quantity
 of solid matter taken up. The washings must be added to
 the solution ; which, if not sour to the taste, must be made
 so by the addition of fresh acid, when a little solution of
common prussiateof potash must be mixed with the whole.
If     a blue precipitate occurs, it denotes the presence of
oxide of iron, and the solution of the prussiate must be
dropped in till no further effect is produced. To ascertain
its quantity, it must be collected in the same manner as
other solid precipitates, and heated red : the result is oxide
of iron.
     Into the fluid freed from oxide of iron, a solution of
neutralized carbonate of potash must be poured till all ef
                                                         fervescence

                         On the Analysis     of Soils.                      33
    fervescence   ceases in  it,
                               and till its taste and smell indicate
    a  considerable excess of alkaline salt.
        The precipitate that falls down      iscarbonate of lime       ;    it
    must be collected on the filter, and dried at          heat below
                                                             a
    that of redness.
        The remaining fluid must be boiled for           quarter of an
                                                         a
    hour, when the magnesia,       if any exist, will be precipitated
    from  it, combined with carbonic acid, and its quantity           to
                                                                       is
    be ascertained in the same manner as that of the carbonate
    of lime.
        If any minute proportion of alumine should, .from pecu
    liar circumstances, be dissolved     by the acid,     will be found
                                                          it
    in the precipitate with the carbonate of lime, and          may be
                                                                  it
    separated from     it    boiling for few minutes with soap
                            by               a
    lye, sufficient to cover the solid matter. This substance
    dissolves alumine, without acting upon carbonate of lime.
        Should the finely divided soil be sufficiently calcareous to
    effervesce very strongly with acids,         very simple method
                                                 a
    may be adopted for ascertaining the quantity of carbonate
    of lime, and one sufficiently accurate in all common cases.
        Carbonate of lime, in all its states, contains         determi
                                                                 a
    nate proportion of carbonic acid,    i. e. about 45 per cent.; so
    that when the quantity of this elastic fluid, given out by
    any soil during the solution of its calcareous matter in an
    acid, is known, either in weight or measure, the quantity of
    carbonate of lime may be easily discovered.
        When the process     bydiminution of weight         employed,
                                                             is
    two parts of the acid and one part of the matter of the soil
    must be weighed in two separate bottles, and very slowly
    mixed together till the effervescence ceases the difference
                                                     ;
    between their weight before and after the experiment de
    notes the quantity of carbonic acid lost         ; for every four
    grains  and   ahalf of which,   ten  grains  of carbonate   of lime
    must be estimated.
        The best method of collecting the carbonic acid, so as to
    discover its volume,     is    bythe pneumatic apparatus, the
    construction and application of which are described at the
    end of this paper. The estimation is, for every ounce mea
    sure of carbonic acid, two grains of carbonate of lime.
    X. Mode       of ascertaining the Quantity   insoluble finely
                                                     of
                  divided Animal and Vegetable Matter.
       After the fine matter of the soil has been acted upon                by
»   muriatic acid, the next process     to ascertain the quantity
                                        is
    of finely divided insoluble animal and vegetable matter that
    itcontains.
      Vol. 23. No. 89. Oct. 1805.             C             This

34                   On Ih,f Analysis  of Soils.
    This may be done with sufficient precision, by heating it
to strong    ignition in a crucible over a common fire till no
blackness remains in the mass. It should be often stirred
with a metallic wire, so as to expose new surfaces continu
ally to the air ; the loss of weight that it undergoes denotes
the quantity of the substance that it contains destructible
by fire and air.
    It is not possible to ascertain whether this substance is
wholly animal or vegetable matter, or a mixture of both.
When the smell emitted during the incineration is similar
to that of burnt feathers, it is a certain indication of some
animal matter ; and a copious blue flame at the time of ig
nition almost always denotes a considerable proportion of
vegetable matter.      In cases when the experiment is needed
to oe very quickly performed, the destruction of the de
composable substances may be assisted by the agency of ni
trate of ammonia, which, at the time of ignition, maybe
thrown gradually upon the heated mass, in the quantity of
twenty grains for every hundred of residual soil.        It af
fords the principle necessary to the combustion of the animal
and vegetable matter, which it causes to be converted into
elastic fluids ; and it is itself at the same time decomposed
and lost.
XI.    Mode of separating Aluminous and Siliceuus Matter
                        and Oxide of Iron.
    The   substances  remaining after the decomposition of the
vegetable    and  animal  matter, are generally minute particles
of earthy matter containing usually alumine and siiex witk
combined oxide of iron.
    To separate these from each other, the solid matter
 should be boiled for two or three hours with sulphuric acid,
 diluted with four times its weight of water ; the quantity
of the acid should be regulated by the quantity of solid re
 siduum to be acted on, allowing for every hundred grains
 two drachms or one hundred and twenty grains of acid.
    The substance remaining after the action of the acid may
 be considered as siliceous ; and it must be separated and its
 weight ascertained, after washing and drying in the usual
manner.
    The alumine and the oxide of iron, if they exist, are
 both dissolved by the sulphuric acid ; they may be separa
 ted by carbonate of ammonia, added to excess ; it throws
 down the alumine, and leaves the oxide of iron in solu
 tion ; and this substance may be separated from the liquid
by boiling.
                                                        Should

                        On the Analysis   of Soifs.               35
     Should any magnesia and lime have escaped solution in
  the muriatic acid, they will be found in the sulphuric acid:
  this, however, is scarcely ever the case; but the process for
  detecting them, and ascertaining their quantities, is the same
  in both instances.
     The method of analysis       by sulphuric acid is sufficiently
  precise  for all  usual  experiments ; but if very great accuracy
  be an object, dry carbonate of potash must be employed as
  the agent, and the residuum of the incineration must be heat
 ed red for half an hour, with four times its weight of this
 substance, in a crucible of silver, or of well baked porce
 lain.    The mass obtained must be dissolved in muriatic
 acid,. and the solution evaporated till it is nearly solid ;
 distilled water must then be added, by which the oxide of
 iron and all the earths, except silex, will be dissolved in
 combination as muriates.          The silex, after the usual pro
 cess of lixiviation, must be heated red ; the other substances,
 may be separated in the 3ame manner as from the muriatic
 and sulphuric solutions.
     This process is the one usually employed by chemical
 philosophers for the analysis of stones.
 XII.    Mode    of discovering    soluble Animal and     Vegetable
                     Matter, and Saline Matter.
     If any saline matter, or soluble vegetable or animal mat
 ter, is suspected in the soil, it will be found in the water of
 lixiviation used for separating the sand.
    This water must be evaporated to dryness in an appro
 priate dish, at a heat below its boiling point.
     If the solid matter obtained is of a brown colour and in
 flammable, it may be considered as partly vegetable extract.
 If its smell, when exposed to heat, be strong and fcetid, it
 contains animal mucilaginous or gelatinous substance; if
it be white and transparent, it may be considered as prin
 cipally saline matter. Nitrate of potash (nitre), or nitrate
of lime, is indicated in this saline matter, by its scintillating
with a burning coal. Sulphate of magnesia may be de
tected by its bitter taste ; and sulphate of potash produces
no alteration in solution of carbonate of ammonia, but
precipitates solution of muriate of barytes.
XIII.     Mode   of   detecting Sulphate of Lime (Gypsum) and
                  .  Phosphate of Lime in Soils.
    Should sulphate or phosphate of lime be suspected in
the entire soil, the detection of them requires a particular
                                  C  2                      process

SG                    On tlie Analysis        of Soils.
process  upon it. A given weight of                it,
                                              for instance four
hundred grains, must be heated red for half an hour in                         a
crucible, mixed with one third of powdered charcoal.        The
mixture must be boiled for      quarter of an hour, in
                                  a                       half-       a
pint of water, and the fluid collected through the filter, and
exposed for some days to the atmosphere                     in
                                                an open vessel.
If any soluble quantity of sulphate of lime (gypsum) ex
isted in the soil,   white precipitate will gradually form in
                      a
the fluid, and the weight of      will indicate the proportion.
                                      it
    Phosphate of lime,    ifany exist, may be separated from
the soil after the process for gypsum.     Muriatic acid must
be digested upon the soil, in quantity more than sufficient
to saturate the soluble earths    the solution must be evapo
                                      ;
rated, and water poured upon the solid matter. This fluid
will dissolve the compounds of earths with the .muriatic
acid, and leave the phosphate of lime untouched.
      would not fall within the limits assigned to this paper,
     It
to detail any processes for the detection              of
                                              substances which
-may be accidentally mixed with the matters of soils. Man
ganese     now and then found in them, and compounds of
           is
the barytic earth    but these bodies appear to bear little re
                      ;
lation to fertility or barrenness, and the search for them
would make the analysis much more complicated, without
rendering     more useful.
                it
            XIV.     Statement   of   Results and Products.
   When the examination of         soil  completed, the pro
                                          a       is
ducts should be classed, and their quantities added together;
and   ifthey nearly e^ual the original quantity of soil, the
analysis may be considered as accurate.        must however
                                                         It
be noticed, that when phosphate or sulphate of lime art dis
covered       the independent process XIII.,
                by                                  correction   a
must be made for the general process,       subtractingby sum           a
equal to their weight from the quantity of carbonate of
lime obtained        by
                  precipitation from the muriatic acid.
   In arranging the products, the form should be in the
order of the experiments         by
                               which they were obtained.
                                      ...
   Thus, 400 grains of good siliceous sandy soil may be
                            a
supposed to contain
                                                                          Grains.
     Of water of absorption      -        -                      -          18
     Of loose stones and gravel, principally             siliceous,         -12
     Of undecompounded vegetable              fibres             -          10
     Of fine siliceous sand                                               soo
                                                                      Brought

                       On the Analysis    of Soils.                  37
                                                                 Grains.
                                Brought over            -         270
 Of minutely divided matter separated by filtration,
       and consisting of
     Carbonate of lime              -         -           25
    Carbonate of magnesia               -       -          4
    Matter destructible by heat, principally ve
       getable,            -          -         -         io
    Silex          -         -                            40
    Alumine             -                                 32
    Oxide of iron            -                             4
    Soluble matter, principally sulphate of pot
       ash and vegetable extract,               -          5
    Gypsum           -                                     3
    Phosphate of lime               -           -          2
                                                             r    125
                               Amount of all     the products    395
                               Loss         -           -           5
In this instance     the loss is supposed small ; but in general,
in actual experiments, it will be found much greater, in
consequence of the difficulty of collecting the whole quan
tities of the different precipitates; and when it is within
thirty for four hundred grains, there is no reason to suspect
any want of due precision in the processes.
XV. This     general Method      of Analysis viay in many        Cases
                          be much  simplified,
    When the experimenter is become acquainted with the
use of the different instruments, the properties of the re-              .
agents, and the relations between the external and chemical
qualities of soils, he will seldom find it necessary to per
form, in any one case, all the processes that have been de
scribed.    When his soil, for instance, contains no notable
proportion of calcareous matter, the action of the muriatic
acid IX. may be omitted.            In examining peat soils, he
will principally have to attend to the operation by fire and
air X. ; and in the analvsis of chalks and loams, he will
often be able to omit the experiment by sulphuric acid XI.
    In the first trials that are made by persons unacquainted
with chemistry, they must not expect much precision of
result. Many difficulties will be met with ; but, in over
coming them, the most useful kind of practical knowledge
will be obtained; and nothing is so instructive in. experi
mental seience as the detection of mistakes,             The correct
                                                               analyst

38                      On the Analysis           of Soils.
analyst ought to be well grounded in chemical information;
but perhaps there is no better mode of gaining        than that       it,
of attempting original investigations. In pursuing his ex -
             he will be continually obliged to learn from
Eeriments,
  ooks the history of the subs<ances he      employing or act
                                                         is
ing upon    and
            ;    his theoretical ideas will be more valuable in
being  connected   with  practical operation, and acquired for
the purpose of discovery.
XVI.     On the Improvement      Soils, as connected with tlie
                                        of
               Principle   their Composition.
                               of
    In cases when       abarren soil     examined with
                                             is              view to     a
its improvement,          ought
                         it         in
                                    all cases,            if
                                                   possible, to be
compared with an extremely fertile soil in the same neigh
bourhood, and in         similar situation
                         a                     the difference given
                                                     :
by their analyses would indicate the methods of cultivation                           ;
and thus the plan of improvement would be founded upon
accurate scientific principles.
    If the fertile soil contained large quantity of sand, in
                                         a
proportion to the barren soil, the process of amelioration
would depend simply upon supply of this substance; and
                                    a
the method would be equally simple with regard to soils de
ficient in clay or calcareous matter.
    In the application of clay, sand, loam, marie, or chalk, to
lands, thrre are no particular chemical principles to be ob
served; but when quicklime              used, great care must be
                                         is
taken that    it  not obtained from the magnesian limestone
                   is                                                                 ;
for in this case, as has been shown             Mr. Tennant,
                                                     by                          it   is
exceedingly injurious to land*.         The magnesian limestone
may be distinguished from the common limestone                     its         by
greater hardness, and         by
                              the length of time that       requires    it
for its solution in acids, and      may be analysed
                                    it                     the pro     by
cess for carbonate of lime and magnesia IX.
   When the analytical comparison indicates an excess of
vegetable matter, as the cause of sterility,           may be de
                                                               it
stroyed     by much pulverization and exposure to air, by
paring and burning, or the agency of lately made quick
lime.     And the-defect of animal and vegetable matter must
be supplied by animal or vegetable manure.
XVII.          Soils in different Climates and Situations
          Sterile
               must differ in Composition.
   The general indications of fertility and barrenness, as
found    chemical experiments, must necessarily differ in
         by
   * Phil. Transactions for 1799, p. 305. This limestone       is   found abundantly
in Yorkshire, Derbyshire, and Somersetshire.
              3                                                              different

                      On the Analysis         of Soils.                    39
 different climates, and under different circumstances.                  The
 power of soils to absorb moisture, a principle essential to
 their productiveness, oughi to be much greater in warm
 and dry countries than in cold and moist ones ; and the
 quantity of fine aluminous earth thev contain larger. Soils
 likewise that are situated on declivities ought to be more
 absorbent than those in the same climate on plains or in
 valleys*. The productiveness of soils must likewise be in
 fluenced by the nature of the subsoil, or the earthy or stony
strata on which they rest ; and this circumstance ought to
be particularly attended to, in considering their chemical
 nature, and the system of improvement.                    Thus, a sandy
soil may sometimes owe            its fertility  to   the    power of the
subsoil to retain water; and an absorbent clayey soil may
occasionally he prevented from being barren, in a moist cli
mate, by the influence of a substratum of sand or gravel.
 XVIII. Of the      cliemical Composition        of fertile Corn Soils
                            in the Climate.
    Those soils that are most productive of corn contain
always certain proportions of aluminous and calcareous
earth in a finely divided state, and a certain quantity of
vegetable or animal matter.
    The quantity of calcareous earth is however very various,
and in some cases exceedingly small.                 A very fertile corn
 soil from Ormiston in East Lothian afforded me in a hun
dred parts, only eleven parts of mild calcareous earth ; it
contained twenty- five parts of siliceous sand; the finely
divided clay amounted to forty-five parts.                 It lost nine in
decomposed animal and vegetable matter, and four in water,
and afforded indications of a small quantity of phosphate of
lime.
    This soil was of a very fine texture, and contained very
few stones or vegetable fibres. It is not unlikely that its
fertility was in some measure connected with the phosphate;
for this substance is found in wheat, oats, and barley, and
may be a part of their food.                                                  '
    A soil from the low lands of Somersetshire, celebrated
for producing excellent crops of wheat and beans without
manure, I found to consist of one-ninth of sand, chiefly
siliceous, and eight-ninths of calcareous marie tinged with
iron, and containing about five parts in the hundred of ve
getable matter.      I could not detect in it any phosphate or
sulphate of lime ; so that its fertility must have depended
             * Kir w;ui. Trans. Irish Academy,   vol. v. p. 175.
                                      C 4                        principally

 -40                      On the Analysis     of Soils.
  principally upon its power of attracting principles of vege
  table nourishment from water and the atmosphere*.
      Mr. Tillet, in some experiments made on the composi
  tion of soils at Paris, found that a soil composed of three-
  eighths of clay, two-eighths of river sand, and three-eighths
  of~the parings of limestone, was very proper for wheat.
  XIX. Of the        Composition of Soils proper for bulbous Roots
                                and for Trees.
      In general, bulbous roots require a soil much more sandy
  and less absorbent than the grasses.              A very good potatoe
  soil, from Varsel in Cornwall, afforded me seven-eighths of
  siliceous sand ; and its absorbent power was so small, that
  one hundred parts lost only two by drying at 400 Fahren
  heit.
      Plants and trees, the<roots of which -are fibrous and hard,
  and capable of penetrating deep imo the earth, will vegetate
  to advantage in almost all common soils which are mode
 rately dry, and which do not contain a very great excess of
 vegetable matter.
      I found the soil taken from a field at Sheffield-place in
 Sussex, remarkable for producing flourishing oaks, to con
 sist of six parts of sand, and one part of clay and finely dir
 vided matter. And one hundred parts of the entire soil,
                             -----
 submitted to analysis, produced
                                                                   Parts.
                                         ....
           Water                                                     3
           Silex           - -    -       -        -       -        54
           Alumine                                                 28
           Carbonate of lime                                         3
           Oxide of iron            -                                5
           Decomposing         vegetable matter
                                                          -          4
           Loss          -                                -          3
 XX.     Advantages of Improvements made                 ly   changing     the
              Composition of tlie earthy Parts          of   Soils.
     From the      great difference of the causes that influence the
 productiveness of lands, it js obvious that, in the present
 state of science, no certain system can be devised from their
 improvement, independent of experiment : but there are
few cases in which the labour of analytical trials will not be
amply repaid by the certainty with which they denote the
best methods of amelioration ; and this will particularly
    • This soil was sent to me
                               by T. Poole, Esq. of Nether Stowey. It is near
the opening of the river Partet into the British Channel; but, I am told, i-
never overflowed.
                                                                       happen

                     On the Analysis    of Soils,                41
happen when the defect of composition is found- in thepro.t
portions of the primitive earths.
    In supplying animal or vegetable manure, a temporary
food only is provided for plants, which is in all cases ex
hausted by means of a certain number of crops ; but when
a soil is rendered of the best possible constitution and tex
ture, with regard to its earthy parts, its fertility may be con
sidered as permanently established.         It becomes capable of
attracting   a  very large portion    of   vegetable nourishment
from the atmosphere, and of producing its crijps with com
paratively little labour and expense.
Description    of the Apparatus for   the  Analysis of Soils.   See
                         Plates II. and   III.
    A.  Retort.
    B.  B. Funnels for    the purpose  of filtrating.
    D.  Balance.
    E.  Argand's lamp.
    F.  G, H, K. The different parts of the apparatus re
quired for measuring the quantity of elastic fluid given
out during the action of an acid on calcareous                soils.
F represents the bottle for containing the soil. K. The
bottle containing the acid furnished with a stopcock.
G. The tube connected with a flaccid bladder. I. The
              measured      H. The bottle for containing the
   ladder. When this instrument is used, a given quantitv
Graduated
of soil is introduced into F; K is filled with muriatic acid
diluted with an equal quantity of water ; and the stopcock
being closed is connected with the upper orifice of F, which
is ground to receive it. The tube G is introduced into the
lower orifice of F, and the bladder connected with it placed
in its flaccid slate into H, which is filled with water. The
 graduated measure is placed under the tube of tJ.          When
 the stopcock of K is turned, the acid flows into F, and acts
 upon the soil ; the elastic fluid generated passes through G
 into the bladder, and displaces a quantity of water in H
 equal to it in bulk, and this water flows through the tube
into the graduated measure;- the water in which gives by
its volume the indication of the proportion of carbonic acid
 disengaged from the soil ; for every ounce measure of which
 two grains of carbonate of lime may be estimated.
     L. Represents the stand for the lamp.
     M,N, O, P, Q, R, S. Represent the bottles containing
 the different reagents.
                                                        VII. Ex-

                                 [    42   ]
 VII.    Extract from     a Memoir      on the Steeping of Wool, and,
     on the Influence     of its   different States on Dyeing. By
     M. J. L. ROARD, Director of the Dyeing Establishment
     in the Imperial Mamtfactories.           Read in the French Na
     tional Institute *.
 .[NOTWITHSTANDING           the labours of Dufay, of Hellot, of
 Macquer,      and the important investigations of Messrs.
 Chaptal and Berthollet, dyeing still presents a great num
 ber of problems, which are difficult to be resolved, ow^jg
 to the number and variety of its agents. Besides the effects
  produced by the nature of the primary substances, by the
 action of water, of air, of caloric, and by the degree of at
 traction of the colouring principles for vegetable and ani
 mal substances, differences which exist in the state of the
 substances to be dyed occasion very remarkable alterations.
 M. Roard, who is charged with the superintendance of the
 dye-houses belonging to the imperial manufactories, has
 constantly observed that wools of various qualities, sub
jected to the same experiments, were coloured in a manner
 more or less intense, whenever he was desirous of forming
 a comparison between them.             These differences in the de
 gree of affinity for the colouring particles are owing to a
 modification of the wool, of which he intends to treat in
 another memoir.
    The effects which particularly excited his astonishment
 were those presented by wools perfectly alike in their ex
 ternal qualities, which assumed in the same vat very dif
 ferent cotours.       It was of the greater importance to in
 quire into the cause of this difference, as dyeing, whose
 influence over many of the arts is so powerful, is the basis
 of the manufactories of tapestry ; ana as the slightest error
 in the production of a colour renders it totally useless and
 unserviceable.      This strictness in the choice of colours is
 in an especial manner observed in the manufactory of the
 Gobelins,     The zeal and the exertions of M. Guillaumot,
 and his indefatigable perseverance in destroying deep-rooted
 prejudices, have brought that establishment to such a de
 gree of splendour ana perfection, that the pictures of the
 most celebrated painters are transferred to its productions
 in a manner equally accurate and astonishing.             The execu
 tion of the tints destined for that manufacture is at present
 attended with the greater difficulties, because, instead of
                  • From the Annales   dc Chimie, No. 158.
                                                            operating,

                   On the Steeping  of Wool.                43
operating, as formerly, with a series of colours taken as it
were at random, it is necessary to find precisely the shade
required, to follow the insensible gradation from light to
dark through an harmonious succession of thirty or forty
colours.     But how can a dyer, however he may be accus
tomed to all the operations of this kind, be sure of obtain
ing invariable results, when, besides a multitude of well
known causes, minute differences in the degree of twisting
alter the affinity of the light, and when the least mixture
in the substances to be dyed causes a considerable variation
in the affinity for the colouring principle?    Previous expe
riments made on the wool of animals in different states,
caused M. Roard to imagine that a more extensive investi
gation of the subject would make him acquainted with the
cause   of the changes  he had before observed.
    M.  Tessier, to whom agriculture owes such important
improvements, facilitated his researches by procuring him
fleeces of Merinos in the grease from animals in health, dis
eased, and such as had died of the rot.
    The wools of the healthy, dead, and diseased animals,
corresponding to the numbers 1, 2, 3, were employed sepa
rately, together, and mixed with scrapings (pelure), wool
of very inferior quality, and which has besides been altered
by lime.
    Scouring and bleaching are so intimately connected
with the operations of dyeing, that the author thought fit
to begin his comparative observations with these prelimi
nary processes, and even to extend them to the grease, the
constituent principles of which were precisely explained in
M. Vauquelin's memoir on the nature of that substance.
    The agents which he employed for scouring wool, either
 in the fleece or spun, are : 1. Grease ; 2. Soap ; 3. Caustic
 potash ; 4. Hot water ; 5. Boiling water ; 6. Flanders soap.
    1. These wools being treated separately, according to the
universal custom, were not completely freed from grease.
No. 1. was very white,' perfectly free from all impurity,
without the smell of sheep ; but, on rubbing it between the
 fingers, a matter somewhat greasy might be perceived. The
 wool of the beast No. 2, which had died of the rot, was
extremely dirty, charged with earth and animal matters :
after being scoured it had still a yellowish gray colour, some
smell, and was more greasy than the preceding.          In the
fleece of No. 3, attacked with a languid disease, were a
great quantity of ticks.    That insect had not a little con
tributed to aggravate the disease of the animal, whose soft,
                                                          weak

     4-t        On the Steeping of Wool, and  tlie Influence
     weak wool was of a greenish yellow colour, which di-
.    stinctly announced its decay.
         2. A portion of the wool of each of the preceding num
    bers, being treated hot with l-20th of soap, became very
    white, and perfectly free from the grease : it had a very
    little smell, which exposure to the air speedily removed.
        3. One-fortieth part of caustic potash scours and whitens
    wool extremely well ; but this method, though very effica
    cious, is attended with too many inconveniences to advise
    its employment.
        4. Wool steeped for some time in hot water lost, by the
   action of the potash, too little of its greasy matter to he
   employed in that state.
        5. it is dangerous in all the operations of scouring to
   raise the temperature of the fluid above 60°, or to leave the
   wool in it longer than a quarter of an hour, for it is liable
   to be very soon injured in boiling water.
       6. Flanders soap is the substance which appeared to act
   in the most advantageous manner; it scours very speedily,
   and gives wool a degree of whiteness which it is extremely
  difficult to produce by any other means.
       On comparing wool spun in the grease and afterwards
  scoured, with ^that scoured before it was spun, it ap
  peared that the former had become exceedingly white, re
  sembling the colour of unwrought cotton, while the second
  retained a dull yellow cast, from which it can never be
  freed. This last experiment frequently repeated, and in
  several different ways, constantly afforded the same results.
  It perfectly agrees with the ideas current in the work-shops,
  that wool badly scoured can never be thoroughly cleansed
  from grease, and that a great part of the preparations it
  may receive in dyeing are never fixed in a solid manner.
  Thus, besides the advantage of sparing proprietors an ope
  ration which they never execute perfectly, a twofold cause
  ought to induce them to preserve wool in the grease : in
  the first place, to protect it from insects and grubs, which
  seldom attack it in that state ; and in the second, to allow
 the various arts which employ white wool the means of
 giving it that purity and lustre which it can never , acquire
when it has been previously scoured.
      The effects of gas and sulphuric acid were likewise tried ;
but neither of those means was capable of giving to wool,
 twice scoured, the same degree of whiteness as to that
which had been completely freed fronvgrease at once.
      These experiments served to ascertain a fact which he
                                                             had

                    of its different States       on Dyeing.                        45
  had long before observed ; namely, that whiteness, so far
  from being the same in substances belonging to different
  classes, varies even in the produce of the same class : thus,
  the white of cotton will never be the same as that of thread,
  and a difference will always be perceived between the white
  ness of wool and that of silk, in the same manner as we
  distinguish, though with greater difficulty, the numerous
  products of individuals of the same family.        For it cannot
  be doubted that, if even the same disposition of the surfaces
  could establish between all these bodies a certain identity for
  reflecting the light ; yet, as the smallest difference of their
  nature must affect their affinity, this alone would be suffi
   cient to produce alterations in them.
      The intention of these researches was to ascertain the
  influence which the state of the animal must exercise over
  the grease, and the nature of the wool.
      The grease is a fatty, unctuous substance, with a very
  strong smell, which is supplied in the sheep by sweat, and
  the transpirable matter emitted by all animals. When dis
  solved in water, and filtered to disengage it from the earthy
                                                      it,
  and animal matters which adhere to                 of beautiful
                                                      it       is          a
   yellow fawn colour, more or less inclined to red, and com
   posed, according to M. Vauquelin, of          soap witha    basis            a
   of potash, animal matter, lime, and potash, combined with
   carbonic, acetic, and muriatic acids. Filtration likewise
   separates   a white matter floating on the surface of the
   grease, and which in scouring does not combine with the
  alkalies :    appears to be of the same nature as suet
               it                                                                   ;   it
  melts, and becomes liquid, at      low temperature, and takes
                                             a
  fire very easily.
      The animal matter dissolved       alkalies by precipitated of
                                                              is
 a   reddish yellow         by
                          all the acids. Oxygenated muriatic
  acid and oxygenated muriatic acid gas form                  whiteby in
                                                                           it   a
  flaky precipitate, which becomes coloured            exposure to
  the air :   it    kind of paste, soft, somewhat viscous, of
                   is
                   a                                                                    a
  dirty yellow   colour    ;speedily becomes liquid, and burns
                               it
  with a    bright  white flame.   This matter, when Itept for
   some hours at eighty degrees, in several pounds of water,                            is
  totally insoluble; but            by
                               evaporating the liquid you obtain
»a   small quantity of    soft matter, ot
                            a                  dark brown colour,
                                                      a
  which has an agreeable smell, resembling that of the ex
  tract of liquorice.    He was the less surprised to find this
  smell in the grease, as in his experiments made in the
  year1   800,      by
                    which he first demonstrated the presence of
  potash in it, he remarked that ammonia, kept in digestion
  with this substaace, gave       strong smell of orange flowers,
                                     it  a
                                                                                    and

 46       On the Steeping   of Wool, and tlie Influence
 and    that all the antient writers who treat of the medical
   properties of the cesype, and its foetid smell, agree that after
   a very long period it changes to an agreeable odour, resem
   bling that or ambergris.
      Alcohol treated with the animal matter takes up a re
   sinous substance of a pale yellow colour, which is precipi
   tated in white flakes, of a light yellow, by water and by
   acids.
      Being desirous of attacking the yellow extremities of the
  parts of the wool from under the belly and the thighs of
  the animal; he treated them with alcohol, quicklime, and
  caustic alkalies ; but none of these agents was capable of
  changing their colour.       It appears that the grease accumu
  lated   in  those  parts, together with the action of the air,
  produces    a very intimate combination, which cannot be de
  stroyed    without  injuring their texture.
      Equal portions of the grease, Nos. I, 2, 8, at the same
 degree of concentration, were filtered and evaporated nearly
 to dryness in capsules of porcelain.       No. 1. furnished twice
 as much matter as the two others ; it strongly attracted the
 humidity of the air, and became almost entirely liquefied
 by it. Acids acted on all three in the same manner, pro
 ducing a very decisive effervescence.         After burning them
 in a crucible of plalina, he separated from all three, by di
 stilled water or by nitric acid, potash slightly carbonated,
 or nitrate of potash, the weight of which was more consi
 derable in No. 1 . than in 2 and 3, which exhibited no very
 perceptible difference.
     These experiments, by demonstrating that the grease and
 the potash, one of its component principles, increase or de
 crease in the Merinos, according to their state of health or
of disease, enable us likewise to form a judgment of the
immediate relation of this substance to these different states,
as also of its influence on the beauty of their products. For
it would be a great mistake to look upon it as prejudicial to
them, when we know that the augmentation of this secre
tion is incapable of altering the health of the animals, as
remarked by Messrs. Gillert, Tessier, and Huzard, in their
observations on the growth of long wools ; and when the
most celebrated naturalists agree in rejecting every method
tending to deprive them of       it,    such as exposing them to
long rains, and washing their backs.            Besides, does not
the Merino, which    is    the most distinguished of all the spe
cies of this genus for the fineness and the beauty of its rich
fleece, yieldthe greatest quantity of grease   ?    and do we not
see this substance diminishing with the quality of the wool,
                                                              and

                  of its different  States on Dyeing.            47
  and dwindling to nothing in those of the same species that
  are covered with hair, as the sheep of Guinea and Senegal ?
      As M. Roard cannot at present give his observations all
  the latitude of which they are susceptible, he hastens to
  make public the experiments relative to the effects produced
  in dyeing by the different qualities of the wools he em
  ployed.
      The colour assumed by wools while steeping appeared to
  him a fact so interesting, that he thought it necessary to
  investigate the cause.        He alternately changed the vessels
  and the agents destined for this operation, and ascertained
  that this coloration ought to be ascribed entirely to the ac
  tion of copper ; for ammonia forms a blue precipitate in
  steeping vessels of that metal, while the same precipitate
  is extremely white, if vessels of earth, porcelain, or even tin,
  be employed.        Wool left for some hours in boiling water,
  in a copper vessel, acquires a greenish gray tint ; hut this
  effect is greatly augmented by the ordinary mixture of alum
  and tartar.      If into this bath, saturated and boiling, you
  plunge different kinds of combed wool, those produced by
  the native breed of France and Holland assume a lively
  green colour, and those of Merinos a greenish yellow, or a
  very dark ochre yellow.          Though this effect is much less
  perceptible in steeps on a large scale, yet, by comparing
  white wool with that which has been steeped, the difference
  appears sufficiently striking.       The colour fixed by this me
   thod is very little altered by alkalies, and not at all by acids,
  which in a slight degree heighten its intensity : ammonia
  turns it to a yellowish gray.
      In these experiments the author employed alum manu
   factured by M. Curaudau, which appeared to him to possess
   all the qualities and defects of Roman alum, in a compara
   tive investigation which he undertook relative to the effects
   in dyeing of all the kinds sold in the shops.
      The wools, after remaining eight days in the alum liquor,
   were then dyed with cochineal, madder, sauuders wood,
   &c.     The same qualities, whether natural or acquired,
'
   having appeared to act in the same manner in all the expe
   riments to which they were subjected, M. Roard describes
   only the first, which was that made with cochineal.
                              Experiment    I.
                       No.   1.  Healthy Merinos.
      A  beautiful carnation red, inclining a little to yellow.
   This No.    1 . surpassed in depth and intensity all the shades
   which he   tried of more than two or three colours.
                                                        Experiment

   48         On the Steeping   of Wool, and   the Influence
                             Experiment    II.
             Nos.   2 and 3.  Animals    dead and diseased.
      The colours almost always the        same ; sometimes, how
   ever, No. 3 18 less highly coloured.      The difference between
   these   wools of dead and diseased animals and those of
  healthy sheep, though both of the same flock, is very re
   markable.
                            Experiment III.
         No. 4.   A  Mixture of equal Parts of 1, 2, and 3.
      The quantity of the altered wool being much greater in
  this experiment, the colours I obtained with it nearly re
  semble those of 2 and 3, but never equal in beauty that of
  No. 1.
                            Experiment    IV.
  No. 5. The     same Wool as No.    1 , but spun without Oil, and
            cleared  of the Grease at a single Operation.
     The colour produced by this wool was more brilliant
  than that of No. 1, but its tone was less high; which de
 monstrates that in some operations the natural colouring
 matter must be of some utility. Thus, in fine crimsons,
 and some other colours, the silks ought to retain somewhat
 of their rawness, for those that are white can never acquire
 the same appearance.        This observation perfectlv coincides
 with the experiments of Coulomb on the good effects in
 dyeing of silk still charged with a portion of its colouring
 principle.
                            Experiment    V.
               No. 6. Clippings of Wool of Picardy.
     The deteriorated matterrwhich forms a part of this wool,
 takes the colour so ill, that it is always clouded : in all the
experiments it invariably produced a dull dirty colour, far
inferior to that of No. 1 . By the mixture of this damaged
wool, the dealers adulterate the quality of all the carded
wools of France, which, as much preparation agrees very
ill with them, can be employed only in the manufacture of
the most ordinary stuffs.
                           Experiment VI.
No.     7.  Clippings   and Wool of the Merinos No. 1, in equal
                                Parts.
     Notwithstanding the bad quality of the wool No. 6, this
mixture took the colour so well, that, in all my experiments,
it was not much inferior to that of No. 1, though, owing
to the clippings, its appearance was always dull.
                                                       Experiment

               Of its different Slates  on Dyeing.            49
                         Experiment   VII.
Nos.   8 and  9.  Mixtures    made with equal Parts of Clip
   pings,  the Wool    of dead Animals No. 2, and of diseased
    Sheep No. 3.
   The difference between Nos. 8 and 9 was scarcely per
ceptible; the colours were dull and dirtv, and darker than
Nos. 2 and 3, of which they were in part formed.
                        Experiment    VIII.
   The same numbers of wool employed in the preceding
experiments were dyed blue, and their results perfectly
agreed with those already stated.        This colour is perhaps
the only one that wools of an inferior quality take well,
though the blue is not equal, and always inclines to black.
                          Experiment   IX.
    The wools Nos. 1 and 2, which had been scoured, and
the scrapings, No. 8, were treated with the dye, compara
tively with that of No. 1, spun in the grease.         The three
first took the colour slowly, and assumed a dull blue tint,
inclining to black. No. 1, on the contrary, took it very
speedily, and acquired a beautiful and very deep blue colour.
These four numbers were scoured together, hot, with
Flanders soap : the wools of the healthy and dead animals,
and the clippings, entirely lost their colour ; while that of
No. 1, in the grease, retained a very brilliant barbel blue.
                          Experiment    X.
    Wools of   the three qualities employed in the three manu
factories  of tapestry  were dyed at the same time with the
Merino    wool No. 1 . In all the experiments the latter took a
deeper colour than any     of the others, which are carded wools
of Flanders, Holland,      and Ficardy.
    The principal facts contained in this memoir lead to      the
 following consequences :
     1. In scouring,     the heat of the fluid ought never      to
 exceed 60°;    for, even before it rises to the temperature of
 boiling  water,   wools in the grease are very liable to be in
jured by   the  potash.
     2. Wools scoured at two operations can never be ren
 dered completely white.       This effect seems to proceed from
 a change of state in the greasy colouring matter, which,
 by becoming more highly oxygenated, loses its solubility.
     3. Oxygenated muriatic acid, and oxygenated muriatic
 acid gas, precipitate, in white flakes, tire animal matter
  contained in the grease : it is speedily coloured by  ' the air,
     Vol.33. No.    89. Oct. 1805.      D                     and.

50                On the Steeping     of Wool,
and contains a substance with an agreeable sfBell, which
appears to be perfectly analogous to that developed by am
monia, and with that discovered in it by the antienls.
   4. It ought to excite little surprise to see the quantity
of potash and of grease diminish or increase in sheep ac
cording to their state of disease or of health ; for a secretion
so complicated, requiring the utmost exertions of nature,
must invariably be intimately connected with the augmenta
tion or -diminution of the vital powers. But how is it pos
sible to doubt that the grease has an immediate action on
thf quality of the wool, when we see those two substances          -
proceed, if we may so express           in harmony? from the
                                      it,
wild sheep of Greece to the most beautiful and the most
vigorous Merinos  ?   It  was probably to assist them to re
cover this precious transpiration, that the Romans, after
shearing, covered them with      a  mixture of tonic and oily
substances, which, according to Columella, preserved them
from many diseases, and contributed to reader their wools
finer and longer.
   5. These wools constantly assume, in copper vessels,
solid colours, more or less deep, which, even at the lowest
degree of coloration, prevent them from taking the first
shades of a   tint. This effect  is obviated      the use of tin
                                                  by
vessels, the oxide of which cannot alter trie whiteness of
the wool during steeping.
   6. All the experiments prove that the affinity for the
colouring matter varies in wools according to the healthy
or diseased state of the animal and that the wool of healthy
                                ;
Merinos   is always more highly coloured than not only Nos.
2  and 3, though the produce of the same flock, but even
than all the carded wools of France and Holland.           They
show to what causes we ought to ascribe the effects pro
duced on wools the exterior characters of which are per
fectly alike, and which, after receiving the same prepara
tions, assume, in the same vat, different colours.
     7-The beautiful and very solid blue colours obtained
from wools in the grease, demonstrate, in          very positive
                                                      a
manner, the influence of that animal matter, which,          if
transferred to other substances, might furnish the arts with
many highly useful applications.
                 Observations   of   the    Author.
   Since the reading of my memoir to the National Insti
tute, I have received a  complete proof of the facts to which
I ascribe the variations exhibited in dyeing by carded wools.
Having ascertained that the different causes which exercised
                                                             an

          I           New Galvanic Discoveries.                         5 1
 an influence over our operations cou'ld not arise from the
 manipulations of the oyer, we complained to our wool-
 merchant of the bad quality of his goods. He was then
 obliged to acknowledge that he mixed the wools of Flan
 ders with those of Holland according to the general prac
 tice of the trade ; and that, though all the dyers had con
 stantly complained of the same defects, yet, as they had
 neglected to acquaint him with the cause, he had not been
 able to take such measures as to prevent them in future.
 These wools are likewise attended with a disadvantage                  of
 another kind, which it is of considerable importance to in
 dicate; I mean the augmentation that is given them bv
 passing them through butter-milk, and which almost al
 ways amounts to one-eighth of their weight.                   They are
 surcharged    with    a  white   dusty  matter;     which,    even  after
 careful and repeated washing, still furnishes a sufficient
'quantity of acetous acid to change a great number of results
 in dyeing.
 VIII.   New Galvanic Discoveries.            By M. Ritter. Ex
    tracted from a Letter from M.           Christ. Bernoulli*.
              1.   Charging a Louis     d'Or     by the Pile.
  JLhe    pile with which M. Ritter commonly performs his
 experiments consists of 100 pairs of plates of metal, two
 inches in diameter ; the pieces of zinc have a rim to pre
 vent the liquid pressed out from flowing away; and the
 apparatus is insulated by several plates of glass.
    As M. Ritter resides at present near Jene, I have not had
 an opportunity of seeing experiments with his great battery
 of two thousand. pieces, or with his battery of fifty pieces,
 each thirty-six inches square, the action of which conti
 nues very perceptible for a fortnight.            Neither have I seen
 his experiments with the new battery of his invention, con
 sisting of a single metal, and which he calls the charging
 pile.
     I have,  however, seen him galvanize a louis d'or.                He
 places   it  between      two pieces of pasteboard, thoroughly
 wetted, and keeps it six or eight minutes in the chain of
 circulation connected with the pile ; and 'thus the louis be
 comes charged, though not immediately in contact with the
 conducting wires.           If the louis thus charged be applied to
 the crural nerves      of a  frog recently prepared, the usual con-
                 •
                   Abridged from Can Moqs'.i Juiemal, vol. vi.
                                      D 2                       tractions

    52                New Galvanic Discoveries.
    tractions are excited.    I had put a louis thus galvanised into
    my pocket, and M. Ritter said to me a few minutes after,
    that I might find out this louis from among the rest, by try
    ing them in succession upon the frog. Accordingly I made
    the trial, and actually distinguished, among several others,
    a single one, in which the exciting quality was very evident.
    This charge is retained in proportion to ihe time that the
    piece has remained in the circuit of the pile.     Of three dif
   ferent louis which M. Ritter charged in my presence, nei
   ther lost its charge in less than five minutes.     These expe
    riments succeeded completely, and nothing seemed so easy
   as to repeat them.
       A metal thus retaining the galvanic charge, though in
   contact with the hand and with other metals, shows that
   this communication of the galvanic virtue has more affinity
   with magnetism than with electricity, and assigns io the
   galvanic fluid an intermediate rank between these two.
      M. Ritter can, in the way I have just described, charge
   at once any number of pieces.         It it only necessary that
   the two extreme pieces of the number communicate with
   the pile through the intervention of wet pasteboards.        It «
  with metallic discs charged in this manner, and placed
  upon one another with pieces of wet pasteboard alternately
  interposed, that M. Kitter constructs his charging pile,
  which ought in remembrance of its inventor to be calTeo: the
   Ritterian pile. The construction of this pile shows, that
  each metal galvanised in this way acquires polaiity, as the
i needle does when touched with a magnet.           Though I have
  had no opportunity of seeing this new pile, I have convin
i
  ced myself of the reality of the phenomenon by an experi
  ment of the highest importance to science, and for the in
  vention of which we are equally indebted to the same inge
  nious philosopher.
      M. Ritter, in his numerous experiments on the excitation
  produced in the frog bv the contact of two different metals,
   (for he has not entirely abandoned the original mode of
  galvanising, like most other experimentalists, who employ
  Volta-s pile exclusively,) had perceived not only a very
  striking difference in the excitability of the different parts
  of animals, but also a difference of excitement between the
  extensor and flexor muscles, according as the positive or
  negative pole was applied to them, or as they were acte4
  upon the instant after the metals were brought into contact
  or separated from each other.
      When the excitability is at its highest point of energy, as
  in very young frogs the moment after they are prepared, or
                   8                                              in

                   New Galvanic Discoveries.                   53
in adult frogs during the coupling season, the flexors alone
contract, and in particular the flexor muscles of that thigh
to which the silver or negative metal is applied, contract at
the instant when the metals come into contact, while those
of the thigh to which the zinc or positive metal is applied,
contract at the instant of their separation. — Opposite effects
are ohservable in frogs the excitability of which is on the point
of being extinguished (Ritter's fifthdegree). In this case the
extensors only contract, and the flexors remain absolutely
motionless.     At the moment of contact of the metals the
muscles on the zinc side alone are thrown into action, and
at the moment of separation those on the silver side.
    M. Hitter distinguishes three degrees of mean excitability.
At the second degree (the first of the three mean degrees),
when the metals are brought into contact, a strong excite
ment of the flexors takes place on the silver side, and a
weak excitement of the extensors on the zinc side; and
 when the metals are separated a strong excitement of the
flexors is seen on the zinc side, and a weak excitement of
the extensors on the silver side.
    At the fourth degree of excitability the contrary takes
 place.   At the third or middle degree the excitability ap
 pears to be equally distributed, the contractions on each
side appearing equal, and at the moment of contact the
flexors contract on the silver side, the extensors on the zinc
 side ; while at the moment of separation the "extensors con
 tract on the silver side, and the flexors on the zinc side.
    All these phaenomena were exhibited to me byM. Ritter,
and the different contractions were very easy to be distin
guished.     I have not had time to repeat these experiments,
and I fear, easy as they appeared to be, they will require an
 experienced hand to produce such distinct effects as I wit
 nessed.    Even with him, none of the experiments which        I
 6aw succeeded the first time.
    M. Ritter, after showing me his experiments on the dif
 ferent contractibility of various muscles, made me observe,
 that the piece of gold galvanised by communication exerts
 at once the action of two metals, or of one constituent part
 of the pile; and that the half which in the circle was next
 the negative pole became positive, and the half towards the
 positive pole became negative.
    Having discovered a way to galvanise metals, as iron is
 rendered magnetic, and having found that the galvanised
 metals alwavs exhibit two poles, as the magnetic needle
 does, M. Ritter suspended a galvanised gold needle on a
 pivot.   He perceived, to his surprise, that these needles
                                D 3                          had

34                    Galvanic Experiments.                  ^
had a certain dip and variation, and that the angle of varia
tion, the quantity of which I am sorry            I  cannot recollect,
was uniformly the same in all his experiments.                It differs
however from that of the magnetic needle,              and the positive
pole always dips.
        IX.  Galvanic Experiments.         By     M. RITTER*.
 J, Hoi-GH I have for some time past employed myself
more in the physical than in the chemical part of gal
vanism, I have, however, had occasion to make some ob
servations in the latter department.            I have, for example,
formed of the oxide of iron an indigo blue extremely beau
tiful. To obtain this oxide you must take a glass tube six
inches lung, with a diameter of half or three quarters of an
inch. You fill the tube a third or fourth* part with mer
cury, and the rest with water.          Introduce into each end of
the tube a thick iron wire ; place the tube in a somewhat
inclined position, and make the superior wire communicate
with the positive pole, and the inferior wire with the nega
tive pole. After some hours the surface of the mercury
will be found covered with a blue oxide of iron. This oxide
is produced by the iron of the positive wire, which is par
tially reduced by the negative wire.           It deoxidates itself at
 first into a green oxide, and afterwards into a blue oxide.
     Another interesting product whicl> I obtained is the
 oxide of silver hyperoxidated.        This oxide is formed in any
 solution of silver, on the side of the positive gold wire of
 the pile.    It has a perfect metallic sound, conducts electri
 city and galvanism exceedingly well, is very friable, and
 has an appearance of galena of iron.            It often forms lances
 or columns, slender and straight, of the length of from 3 to
 4 inches, and from half a line to three-quarters of a line in
 thickness.      These columns represent in their whole length a
 succession of uninterrupted crystals, in the form of ahdreo-
 lite, so that each section across the columns gives in some
 sort the shape of a Greek cross.         1 should       have much to
 add   to describe  completely  this product ; but an experiment,
 and, if needful, the assistance of the microscope, will afford
 a much better idea of it than I could give by description.
 The hyperoxide of silver, reduced to powder, and thrown into
 simple muriatic acid, produces, even in cold, a very strong
 effervescence,    accompanied with an abundant disengage-
                    * From Van Mous-i Jvusnal,
                                                 No. 17.
                                                                   nient

                   Galvanic Experiments.                          55
ment of oxygenated muriatic acid gas, and converts itself
almost instantly into luna cornea. In emploving for thia
experiment crystals instead of powder, there is heard even at
a distance a strong crackling.
   You can obtain in the same manner very quickly the
brown oxide of lead. This oxide takes the shape of a little
scooped out channel.        It has a very brilliant metallic ap
pearance, and conducts electricity very well.         The brown
oxide of lead with muriatic acid, even in cold, also throws
up vapours of oxygenated muriatic acid, but not nearly in
the same abundance as hyperoxide of silver.
   Other metals afforded me similar products, but I have
not yet had time to examine them.
    fn like manner as silver allows itself to hyperoxidate, it
allows itself to hydrogenate by the pile.        You obtain the
hydrogenated silver in decomposing by the gold wire, or by
the negative silver of the pile, a solution diluted so suffi
ciently that the disengaged hydrogen shall be in greater quan
tity than is necessary to deoxidate the silver. The superabun
dant hydrogen combines with the metal, and forms a com
posite of the same colour, which deposits itself under the
appearance of a black magma, of a spunge-like body, or of
beautiful dendritic forms, and which is the true hydrogenated
silver.
   Priestley knew this substance, and gave it the name of
dephlogisticated silver. Buchol^ had also obtained          it,
                                                              and
regarded.it   as silver incompletely reduced.     But by heat one
may disengage hydrogen under the form of gas after which
                                                  ;
there remains reduced silver.
I     expect to obtain violent detonations from the mutual
reaction of hyperoxidated silver and hydrogen.
                                                                  a is
                                                       Copper
hydrogenated under the same circumstances, and takes
blue colour, with the most beautiful and various shades.
   The same hydrogenation succeeded equally well in my
experiments with tin.
 I      have not yet       examined the black precipitate of
gold which    is    obtained at the wire of the negative pole
of the pile. Silver, copper, and tin take the highest degrees
of hydrogenation   by    exposure in very dilutod state to strong
                                    a
piles having gold wires from three-quarters of line to one
                                                  a
line in thickness; and the highest degree of hydrogenation,
chiefly for silver, appeared to constitute the gaseovis state.
We know already the gaseous state of the highest degree
of hydrogenation of most other metals.
                             V  4                          X. die-

                                [    56        ]
X.     Chemical Experiments on Mercury. By Messrs.
     BRAAAICAMP and SIQCEIRA-OUVA, of Portugal*.
a. HESE experiments have for their objects:             l.To
                                                  ascertain
the action    of phosphorous acid, of phosphites, of phosrand
phorus, on the oxides and salts of mercury : 2. The analy
sis of some mercurial salts, by means of phosphorous acid :
3. To ascertain the action of hyperoxygenated muriatic
acid on red oxide of mercury.
1.    Of   the Action   of Phosphorous Acid         upon the Oxides    of
                              Mercury.
     Having
          placed 10       crammes of red oxide in contact with
phosphorous acid a Tittle concentrated, the colour of the
oxide was changed into a gray. On boiling this mixture,
we saw, in a few instants, running globules appear, which
led us to suppose that the phosphorous acid had passed into
the state of phosphoric acid, by combining with the oxv-
gen of the oxide of mercury ; and also that perhaps the
phosphoric acid, as it formed, had dissolved some portion
of the. oxide of mercury. To ascertain this point, we                 fil
tered and treated the liquor             by
                                     sulphurized hydrogen    to  :
our great astonishment, this reagent afforded but extremely
slight indications of the presence of mercury.        The resi
duum that remained on the filter, after having been well
washed and dried, gave us nine grammes of mercury.
Hence we concluded that the red oxide of mercury contains
nearly ten per cent, of its weight of oxygen.
   The result of this experiment points out new means for
analysing the oxides of mercury, which appear to us pre
ferable to sublimation, which       less expeditious, and
                                          is                at  is
tended, besides, with the inconvenience of not giving ac
curately the quantity of mercury reduced to the metallic
state, either because      by
                           accident     may be volatilized, or
                                               it
adhere so closely to the vessels employed in the operation
that the whole cannot be detached.
/  We hoped also to be able,     means of this acid, to ana
                                         by
lyse the salts of mercury,          by
                              adding to them potash to de
compose them at the same time that the phosphoric acid
should reduce the oxide into running mercirry but the re ;
sults were not satisfactory.    Having tried this process on
10   grammes of oxi-muriate of mercury, we obtained only
C6   of running mercury, instead of 73, which we ought to
                   • From Annahs de C/iimie, vol. Uv.
                                                                 have

              Chemical Experiments on Mercury,               57
have obtained, as we shall show hereafter.       This loss of
0*7 is to be attributed in part to what was dissolved by the
phosphoric acid which was formed, but still more, in our
opinion, to the potash. Mercurial salts decomposed by
means of this alkali always retain some of it.    M. Berthol
let has shown, that during the decomposition of these salts
by potash, neither the redundance of the latter, nor ebulli
tion, can entirely clear the solution of mercury.
              2.  Of the Gray    Oxide of Mercury.
   With phosphoric       acid we treated ten grammes of gray
oxide, obtained by decomposing by ammonia a solution of
a sulphate of mercury at the minimum, strongly boiling the
precipitate to dissolve and separate all the triple salt that
might have united with it.         From these 10 grammes we
obtained Q.25 of reduced mercury, and we concluded that
this oxide contains 7.J. per cent, of oxygen.       The mean
which we employed for obtaining the gray oxide of mer
cury seems to us preferable to that of precipitation by
caustic fixed alkalies, which combine in part with the
oxide precipitated, from which it is impossible entirely to
separate them. When, in the method with ammonia, some
portion of this adheres still to the oxide, we may easily ex
pel it by a moderate heat.
3.   Of   the Action of  the PJiosphorous Acid vpon   the Salts
                           of Mercury.
   Having, without success, attempted to analyse the mercu
rial salts by means of caustic potash, we determined to treat
them in a direct manner with phosphorous acid, and we
obtained the following results:
    1. Phosphorous acid in excess decomposes      all the mer7
curial salts, without exception, reducing their, oxides into
running mercury, and entirely separating their radicals.
   2. When these salts are at the.maximum of oxygenation,
it causes them to pass into the minimum before it decom
poses them.
   3. Mercury is completely reduced to the metallic state
by this means ; for, the oxide of mercury being united to a
radical, which does not quit it entirely until it arrives at
the metallic stale, the phosphoric acid formed in the ope
ration cannot dissolve the mercurial oxide, not being in
contact with the mercury until it arrives at the metallic
state.    The acids, before united to the oxides of mercury,
cannot redissolveit while the phosphorous acid which de
stroys the action is present.        Should a phosphate acci
                                                        dentally

  38           Chemical Experiments on Mercury.
  dentally be formed, it would immediately           be decomposed
  by the phosphorous acid.
     4.  Of  the  Analysis of    the different Mercurial Salts.
     Convinced    from    the   preceding experiments, that the
  phosphorous acid afforded the best means of analysing the
 mercurial salts, we attempted the following analyses.
                        Of Turlith Mineral.
    Having boiled ten grammes of this salt, very dry and
 well prepared, till we saw the mercury reduced, we filtered
 the whole through gray paper.          All the reduced mercury,
 collected in a single globule, weighed 7•7, which, accord
 ing to the analysis or the red oxide of mercury, is equiva
 lent to 8*47 of the same oxide.        The filteted liquor, treated
 by the muriate of barytes, gave 5 grammes of sulphate of
 barytes, which, at 30 per cent, of sulphuric acid, represent
 ing 1-5 of this acid. There remains a loss of 3 centi
 grammes, which may be attributed to the moisture. —This
 result differs a little from that given by M. Fourcroy.
                           Recapitulation.
       Oxide of mercury at the maximum               -     84- 7
       Sulphuric acid         -       -       -      -     15*
       Loss, probably to moisture,          . -      -         3
                                                            100
     Of Neutral   Phosphate     of Mercury at    the   Maximum.
    Ten grammes of this salt well dried, treated in the same
 manner with sulphurous acid, gave the following result ;
               Red oxide      -             -      63-8
               Sulphuric   acid      -      -      81*8
               Loss by moisture             -       4*4
      Of Oxygenated Muriate of Mercury of            Commerce.
   Ten grammes, treated with phosphorous acid, gave of
running mercury 7-3, which represents 8-03 of oxide at the
maximum.         The filtered liquor, treated with nitrate of
silver, gave 7 -4 of muriate of silver, which represent 1 -86 of
muriatic acid. This salt being formed by sublimation,
contains no water, and we attributed the 1 1 centigrammes
loss to the iron, which is always found more or less mixed
with this salt as it is met with m commerce.
                                                             Result.

             Chemical Experiments on Mercury.                59
                              Result.
           Muriatic acid       -        -       -      18-6
           Oxide of mercury at the maximum             83-3
           Loss attributed to the iron            -       •
                                                        1 1
                                 ,                      100
On Nitrous Turbith, Nitrate of Mercury at the Maximum
          of Oxygen, and at the Minimum of Acid.
    Ten grammes of this salt, as dry as possible, treated with
the phosphorous acid, gave 8 grammes of reduced mercury,
which represent 8'8 of red oxide of nfcrcury : what is
wanting to the complement of 10 grammes is to be attri
buted to the nitric acid, which we cannot collect in this
operation, because phosphoric acid, by seizing a part of its
oxygen, causes it to evaporate in nitrous vapours. The
perfect dryness of the salt leads us to believe that the. re
mainder of the weight may, without fear of error, be attri
                                      '
buted to the nitric acid.                 .
                              Result.
            Oxide  of mercury    at the maximum          88
            Nitric acid     -               -       -     12
                                                        100
          Of Phosphate of Mercury          at the   Maximum.
    Ten grammes of this salt, also as dry as possible, treated
 in the same manner with phosphorous acid, gave 6-5 of
 running mercury, which correspond to 7' 1 5 of oxide of
mercury at the maximum; the 2-85 wanting to complete
 the 10 grammes, we attribute to the phosphoric acid.
     This experiment proves that phosphorous acid not only
 decomposes     all the salts formed by mercury with other
 acids, but also those which are formed by the phosphoric
 acid ; so great is the affinity of this acid for oxygen, that
 it surmounts that of the mercury for the same principle,
 and at the same time the attraction of the phosphoric acid
 for the oxide of mercury.
     This phaenomenon also clearly points out the reason why
 the phosphoric acid, formed at the cost of the oxygen of
  the mercurial oxides, does not dissolve the mercury as long
  as any phosphoric acid is present ; this decomposes in its
  turn the phosphate which might bc-i'ormed.
                                                              Qf

  60            Chemical Experiments                on   Mercury,
                                  Of    Phosphites.
     The phosphites likewise  deoxygenate the oxides of mer
 cury, but their action is incomparably less than that of the
 phosphorous acid. It appears to be subordinate to the force
 of affinity of the phosphorous acid with its base, and to
 the action which this may equally exercise upon the oxides
 of mercury : the phosphites therefore do not seem t-o us to
 be capable, in any case, of affording an accurate means for
 the analysis of these oxides. They also deoxygenate the
 mercurial salts ; but this action is weakened by the same
 causes.
 Of the    Action   rif   Phospliorus upon the Mercurial Oxides and
                                    Saits.
      Pelletier, who has attempted to combine phosphorus with
  all the metals, says, that on treating the red oxide of mer
  cury with this substance             means of water, in
                                        by                           gentle
                                                                         a
 heat, he obtained        aphosphuret of mercury in which the
 phosphorus seems to exist in a state of feeble combina
 tion, and that he obtained                  by
                                            the same operation some
 phosphoric acid. On repeating his experiment we obtained
 the same results      but       appears to us that the formation of
                    ;           it
 the phosphoric acid whush              produced in
                                        is                may be differ
                                                           it
 ently    explained.   We     are   of  opinion   that  the   phosphorus
 (which gives origin to this acid) attracts portion of oxy a
 gen from the atmospheric air, and passes into the state of
 phosphorous acid.        What has led us to form this conclu
 sion is this: The phosphorus which               carried off
                                                    is               by
                                                                   the va
 pours of the water burns at the surface of the latter; and
 consequently forms there phosphorous acid, which must be
 changed into phosphoric, in proportion as                     seizes the
                                                                it
 oxygen from the red oxide of mercury.               This explanation
 appears to us the more natural, as phosphorus, placed in
 contact svith the red oxide, does not becomeacidified, though
it  deoxygenates the latter, as we shall show hereafter, and
as phosphorus boiled in water                is
                                            changed,           by
                                                             this simple
operation, into phosphorous acid.
     When phosphorus              placed in contact with red oxide
                                it is
and water in the cold,           first attracts oxygen from the red
oxide, and reduces         itfirst of all into gray oxide, and at
length     to the metallic  state     but in this case no phospho
                                        ;
rous    acid  nor phosphoric       acid      formed the phosphorus
                                             is
                                                         a ;
merely becomes oxidated, and assumes                   dark colour.     It       .
is  not difficult to conceive the theory of this phenomenon                  :
the phosphorus, having great avidity for oxygen, separates
it  from the oxide with which                 it in contact but this
                                                   is                ;
                                                            combustion

             Chemical Experiments on Mercury.                  6l
combustion is so slow, as is proved by the uniformity of the
temperature of the liquor during the operation, that the
phosphorus is never in a condition to seize upon the por
tion of oxygen required for its conversion into the acid
state.   The reduced mercury cannot combine with the
phosphorus ; for, as it docs not combine with it when in
the state of fusion (according to the experiments of Pelle-
tier), it is still less capable of combining with it when in a
solid state, and without any change of temperature. Our
experiment may perhaps furnish the means of obtaining the
true oxide of phosphorus, which hitherto has been little or
not at all known.
   The mercurial salts are equally decomposed and deprived
of their oxygen by phosphorus, with the application of
heat, or as in the cold ; but, in the first case, a phosphuret
of mercury is formed, which consequently prevents its ana
lysis by this means. It might perhaps be accomplished in
the cold ; but the action is so slow, that any other more ex
peditious means would be preferable.
Of tlw   Action   of Oxygenated Muriatic Acid upon        the Red
                             Oxide.
  This subject has already been investigated by Messrs.
Fourcrovand Thenard, and it may easily be supposed that
such able chemists have left little to be done in a held which
they have already cultivated.     We have obtained nearly
the same results which they have indicated, and we return
to this subject merely in order to notice some slight peculi
arities which have escaped them.
                         Experiment   I.
   Fifty grammes of red oxide of mercury were put into a
proportionate quantity*o£ distilled water. Oxi-muriatic acid
gas was then passed through
                                it,   taking care to agitate the
liquor well, in order that the gas might come perfectly into
contact with the red oxide.         After the space of an hour
the colour of the oxide began to change, becoming darker
every moment      ;we continued to cause gas to enter till the
brown powder had deposited itself we then decanted the
                                      y
liquor, and washed and filtrated this powder, which had
become of deep violet colour: after being dried weighed
            a                                        it
89 grammes. The evaporated liquor presented to us          a salt
crystallized in the form of needles, which we ascertained by
re-agents to be hyperoxygenated muriate of mercury; the
last liquor, after the crystallization, presented to us slight
traces of another salt more highly oxygenated than the pre
                                                         ceding ;

f>S              Chemical Experiments       on    Mercury.
ceding ; but its quantity was too small to be subjected to
any experiment.
   The violet powder, which has hitherto been considered
as an oxide of mercury, more or less oxygenated, being
subjected to different experiments, gave the following re
sults :
    1. Boiled in water, it was found insoluble in        and didit,
not in the least change its colour.
    2. Treated with caustic potash,     itwas converted into red
oxide, and the liquor contained muriatic acid. There ex
isted therefore in this powder     a muriate of mercury.
    3. In order to determine the nature of the latter, and to
ascertain the proportion in which        was contained in
                                        it                    we      it,
sublimed 10 grammes of this powder, and obtained                            2
grammes of sublimed muriate, and               of red oxide not
                                                  8
sublimed.      The sublimed muriate dissolved almost entirely
in the muriatic acid, and the extremely small portion which
did not dissolve was mild muriate.
    Hence      follows, that the violet-coloured powder which
              it
is  formed by the action of the oxi-muriatic acid upon the
red oxide of mercurv,          not
                              is    a simple oxide of mercury,
but an oxi-muriate of mercury, with          great excess of red
                                                  a
oxide of mercury, in the proportion of           to 8; that this
                                                       2
great   excess   of  oxide  iscombined    with the salt  at least
                                                                ;
this seems to be proved      bythe first experiment, since boil
ing water was not able to separate the muriate of mercury
from the red oxide.
                           Experiment       II.
   From all the circumstances of which we have just given
an account, we concluded the possibility of forming      hy-          a
peroxygenated muriate of mercury, of degree superior to
                                                   a
that of corrosive sublimate.  As thCaction of the oxygen
ated muriatic acid had not given in the cold so satisfactory
a result as we wished, we boiled 30 grammes of red oxide
of mercury with oxygenated muriatic acid, taking        care to
add fresh quantities in proportion as    was absorbed
                                              it            the       by
substance.    When    this refused to  absorb   any more,   the
liquor was decanted, and the powder washed and dried the              ;
quantity of the latter was nearly the same as in the former
experiment; treated by the same re-agents        gave us simi
                                                       it
lar results, and      by
                    sublimation     yielded
                                       it    the  same propor
tions.
      The liquor being properly      evaporated,     yielded oxy-
                                                           it
  enated       muriate of mercury perfectly crystallized.     The
      t   portions of the liquor not   presenting any appearance
                                                                            of

               Chemical Experiments on Mercury.              63
of crystallization, were evaporated to dryness, and present
ed to us what we sought for, a hyperoxygenated muriate of
mercury, possessing the following properties :
    1. It is highly soluble and deliquescent.
    2. Much more soluble in alcohol than the ordinary oxy
genated    muriate.
    3.  It  decrepitates    with concentrated sulphuric   acid,
assumes a yellow colour, and disengages oxygenated       muri
atic acid gas.
   4. The essential property, which no other salt besides
this is known to possess, is, that being mixed with the sul-
phuret of antimony, it inflames spontaneously at the ordi
nary temperature, some instants after the mixture is made.
The residuum of this combustion, besides the sulphuric or
sulphurous acids which are disengaged, consists of oxygen
ated muriate of mercury (corrosive sublimate) and muriate
of antimony. It appears, therefore, that, in this case, the
superabundant oxygen of the hyperoxygenated muriate
burns a portion of the sulphur, and produces sulphuric acid,
and a portion also of the antimony, which then combines with
 some of the muriatic acid from the mercury. This salt, how
 ever, possibly on account of its extreme deliquescence, does
 not decrepitate upon ignited coals, nor does it make any
 explosion when struck Dy a hammer.
    The oxide of mercury combined in this salt is of the
 same nature with that which is combined with oxygenated
 muriate.    The alkalies likewise precipitate it in a yellow
 oxide.
              Conclusion from thejast Experiments.
    Oxygenated muriatic acid produces, therefore, with red
 oxide of mercury, principally by the aid of heat, different'
 kinds of salts.           *
    1 . Muriate    of mercury at the maximum, with a great
 excess of oxide, resembling tufbith mineral' as to its insolu
 bility in water, but reducible by sublimation into oxygen
 ated muriate of mercury, and into red oxide.
    2. Simple muriate of mercury.       This salt accompanies
 in small quantity the preceding salt.
    3. Oxygenated muriate of mercury, which crystallizes
 by the evaporation of the liquor.
    4. Hyperoxygenated muriate of mercury.           This salt
 is extremely soluWe, and not crystallizable.
    Such are the remarks which/ we had to offer respecting
 the action of phosphorous acid, and oxygenated muriatic
 acid, upon the mercurial salts and oxides. Justice requires
                                                           that

 04              Chemical Experiments on Mercury.
 that we should acknowledge the advantage which we have
 derived in our researches from the practical skill and che
 mical sagacity of M. Paumier, who has assisted us in our
 labours, and shared in our solicitude to give them all the
 requisite accuracy, .
                                      Conjcclure.
      Before concluding, we beg leave to offer a conjecture to
(
  which this inquiry has given rise. We feel the less reluc
   tance in presenting        asit, refers to
                                          it      point which, in the
                                                     a
   present  state of  our  knowledge,      cannot   yet be     subject of
                                                                       a
  reasoning    in the proper  sense   of  the  term.
      It well known that mercury, In the state of oxide or
       is
  of salt,  is employed in medicine for the cure of venereal
  disorders.     The effects of this remedy are well known, but
  its mode of action          far from being so. Does
                                is                                  act by  it
  forming   a    combination    with   the   principle   of  the  disease,
  or  by yielding to     its oxygen, and being reduced itself to
  the metallic state it, ? it
                           The latter opinion, which has some
  facts to support        seems the most probable.          The experi
  ments of which we have just given an account, persuade
  us, that of all the substances which the mercurial oxides
  and salts may meet with in the animal ceconomy, none can
  take from them their oxygen so easily as the phosphorous
  acid or the phosphites.
     Some perhaps may tell us, that there may exist in the
  animal liquids, alkalies, or alkaline earths, capable of de
  composing the mercurial salts, and separating their oxides.
  We shall only answer, that the alkalies do not exist in the
  caustic state in these liquids, and that consequently their
  radicals cannot    by double affinities combine with the oxides
  of mercury and that, even though the oxide of mercury
                 ;
  should be in this state,       substance
                                      a       would still be required
  that could carry away its oxygen.                possible that such
                                                    It   is
  substances may be discovered in the human body                  but we   ;
  do not know of any which possesses the property of seizing
  the oxygen from the oxides of mercury in                  degree at all
                                                                   a
  comparable with phosphorous acid and the phosphites.                   It
is    known that large quantity of phosphoric acid
                     a                                               con       is
  tained in the human body: of this the phosphate of lime
  which constitutes the bones           proof.
                                           is   a    Iteasy to conceive
                                                              is
  the formation of phosphorous acid and phosphites in the
  human body, since phosphorous acid in reality                  nothing
                                                                       i3
 else than phosphoric acid with an excess of phosphorus.
 We conjecture, however, that the formation of phospho
  rous acid and of phosphites might perhaps be supported                            by
                                                                       the

            Alum prepared from Pyrites and Clay.              65
the following observations : 1. That the malady in question
has its origin in the contact of the fecundating parts : 2.
That phosphorus performs      a principal part in the functions
of reproduction.    Pelletier has remarked, that phosphorus
is the most powerful aphrodisiac known ; analysis has
shown that the crystals of the human semen are phosphate
of lime. Phosphorous acid and phosphites would therefore
vitiate the spermatic liquids, which would not be restored
to their natural state until the phosphorous acid and the
phosphites, seizing oxygen from the mercurial oxides,
should return to the state of phosphoric acid and of phos
phates, such as they are found in the state of health.
                  Note  of M. Vauquelin.
   There is no necessity that we should have recourse to
the presence of phosphorous acid or of phosphites in the
animal liquids, which is by no means proved, in order to
explain the reduction of the salts and oxides of mercury,
since almost all the animal humours produce this effect.
XI.    New Method of preparing Alum from Pyrites and
    Clay. By M. Lampadius, Professor of Chemistry and
    Metallurgy at the School of Freyberg*.
I   had long been of opinion that the sulphuric acid vapours
disengaged from pyrites while burning might he applied to
some profitable use.     In this process, as is well known,
when the combustion is once begun, by applying burning
wood or other fuel to the pyrites, they can maintain it by
their own sulphur; and a certain quantity of sulphuric acid
is formed, which is generally allowed to dissipate itself
without producing any benefit.
    In a journey which I took in 1799 to the vitriol manu
factory of Breitenbrunn, in the district of Johann-Georgen-
stadt, I had the satisfaction to observe that these vapours
were turned to some account. The pyrites were burned in a
furnace of a conical form, open at the top, and in the sides
of which were apertures, with pipes conducting to a large
square chest, filled with pyrites that had been burned and
lixiviated, and had thus furnished vitriol. When the py
rites in the furnace are kindled, the aperture at the top is
closed. The pyrites still continue to bum; the vapours
                   * From the Journal des Mines.
Vol.   23. No. 89- Oct. 1S05.       E

  66                   KTew  Method    of preparing Alum            .
   pass through the pipes and collect in the chest called the
   condenser, where thev blend themselves with the lixiviated
   pvrites. The latter still contain a quantity of highly ox
   idated iron, which combines with the sulphuric acid, and
  forms vitriol.         When these pyrites have remained a suffi
  cient time in the chest, they are again lixiviated, and more
  vitriol is obtained from them*.                   Perfect sulphuric acid
  would not, in this case, be of the same service as vapours,
  which are not entirely saturated with oxygen.
       This fact revived my ideas relative to the employment
  of the vapours which are disengaged during the burning of
  pyrites ; but, before I proceed to state the experiment I
  made on the fabrication of alum, \ shall introduce an ob
  servation concerning the process emploved by M. Chaptal.
  That chemist bums the sulphur with the saltpetre, as is the
  practice in the English manufactories of sulphuric acid ; he
  receives the vapours of sulphuric acid, which are disengaged,
  upon baked clay, and thus forms an artificial ore of alum.
  Would it not be less expensive to oxidate immediatelv the
  sulphur of the pvrites by the atmospheric air? By the latter
 method two expensive operations would be spared — that of
  purifying the sulphur, and that of burning it with saltpetre;
 a substance which is at a considerable price.                    I admit that,
 in the process w hich I am going to describe, all the vapours
 are not turned to advantage ; but if the apparatus be pro
 perly disposed, very little will be lost.
       I shall first make a remark concerning the state of the
 pvrites, and of the clav employed.                  Pyrites merely broken
 are preferable to those which are triturated and washed, when
 they are to be piled one upon the other: if pyrites in powder
 be used in the furnaces, thev should be mixed with a fourth
 part of elay, and hardened and dried in the form of bricks.
 The arsenic couta;ncd in the pvrites is not detrimental to
 the formation of the alum, because the arsenic, being less
volatile than the vapours of the sulphuric acid, is arrested
 at the commencement of the pipes, where care must be
 taken not to put any clay.               As to the clay, that used by
potters may be employed, provided it does not contain too
great a quantity of iron.
                                                                                  '
      I directed a reverberatorv furnace, four feet long, two
and a half wide, and two and three quarters high, to be
constructed : the anterior part had an aperture a foot square,
 by which the pyrites were introduced.                   On the sides of the
    *
        What M. Lampadiiu here says is not perfectly correct. Water is made
to    fall continually, drop by drop, into the clicst : this water passes through
tlie heap of pyrites, and keeps k constantly lixiviated.
                                                                             arch

                        from Pyrites and Clay.                             67
 arch were apertures two inches in diameter, which could
 be opened and shut at pleasure.         At the top of the vault
 was another, of an oblong form, conducting to a wooden
 channel a foot and a half wide, but which, on account of
 want of room, was only twelve feet long, and terminated
 in a chest three feet in diameter. Such was the imperfect
 apparatus with which I made my first experiment.
    A quintal of pyrites, triturated and washed, were mixed
with half their weight of clay, and formed into balls, which
were gently dried.       Another quintal of clay was likewise
formed into balls, which were dried and baked, but only
till the clay had lost its unctuosity, and was therefore more
proper to receive the vapours of the sulphuric acid. The
balls of the pyrites were placed in the furnace, on about a
cubic foot of wood, intended for kindling the fire. The
aperture in front was closed, and only those on the sides
were left open : the balls of clay were exposed in the canal
and in the chest to the vapours of the sulphuric acid.        The
combustion of the pyrites continued fourteen hours, and
not a vestige of sulphur was deposited ; that substance be
came entirely volatilized under the form of sulphuric acid*.
The wooden channel was too short, as I had expected ; the
greater part of the vapours escaped ; the trees and plants in
the garden contiguous to the laboratory withered, and their
leaves fell off.   I. was therefore convinced that the pyrites
were completely oxidated in my apparatus.         As soon as the
operation was ended, the balls       of clay were  covered with
an effervescence of alum, which, mixed with 4 per cent. of
alkali, yielded alum.
    But as the greatest part of the acid was mixed with the
alumine, without being saturated with            left the balls in
                                                   it,I
a  shed, exposed to the action of the air, from August 2,
1799, till the 3d of April the following year.         At the ex
piration of that time      J obtained an earthy mass, entirelv
covered with an efflorescence,       and mixed with sulphate of
alumine; being treated in the usual manner,          yielded three
                                                          it
pounds and     a half of alum.
    This experiment convinced me of the possibility of ob
taining alum        this process, and that in very ceconomical
                   by                                a
manner but, to insure success, the tube should be made
         :
much longer than mine. The remaining pyrites may after
wards be employed          the manufacture of vitriol.
                          in
    *We cannot hc!p here »uspecting the accuracy of M. Lampadius.           It
st ems likely that by
                    tar the 'greater part of the vapour, would be ui the state
«) sulphurous acid. Edi r.
                               '   E 2                     XII.    Tucnty-

                              [   63   ]
XII.    Ttcenty -fourth Communication from Dr. THORNTO*?,
                 relative to Pneumatic Medicine.
                           To Mr. Tilloch.
                                        Hinde-street, Manchester-square,
       SIR,                                     October 21, 1805.
IN     Dr. Rowley-s late extraordinary publication against the
discovery of the virtuous and illustrious Dr. Jenner, he puts
down as one of the madnesses of mankind, their belief of
any good as having arisen from pneumatic agency. (t Cow-
pox mad," and " air mad," is an easy mode of aspersing,
among the vulgar part of the community, those who wish
to become, and are zealous to be, benefactors of mankind :
and I appeal for the vindication of my name to the philo
sophic world, before whose tribunal I am feelingly alive ;
not caring, indeed, as many do, after pecuniary gains,
which such attacks are intended to deprive me of. If                     I
and my believers are indeed mad, I trust it is the madness of
St. Paul, a learned conviction of the truth : I shall there
fore proceed on with more cases confirming the practice.
    Letter from   Mr. WILSON, Sadler, to Dr. THORNTON.
            Case of Herpes   cured  ly Carbonic Acid      Air.
                                                         Oxford-street,
     .  SFR,                                           October 20, 1805.
    Having experienced the most striking good effects, I
might say wonderful, from the pneumatic practice, I am
delighted to make the same as publicly known as possible.
 For twenty-five years I was miserably afflicted with herpes
from the crown of my head to the sole of my foot, and had
employed Dr. Cannichael Smith, and other gentlemen of
the faculty; but my terrible affliction baffled all their skill.
 I therefore applied to Mr. Varley, and he recommended the
 trial of the carbonic acid air, confined by means of oil-skin,
 over the parts affected, an hour each day; and such were
 the astonishing salutary effects of the air, that in the course
of two months this universal disease was removed.                       It
 is now above seven years ago, and I have never felt any
return since, but enjoy a most comfortable state of health.
                         I have the honour to be, sir,
                              Your faithful obedient servant,
                                              MATTHEW WILSON.
                                                          Observations

             Specific Remedy       for    the Tinea Capitis.             6>j
          Observations    on this Case by           Dr. Thornton.
    1. The herpes is a species of hitherto incurable leprosy,
and was confirmed in the habit of this gentleman, having
existed, as he writes to me, twenty-five years.
   2. The common means failing, the trial of carbonic acid
air to the paits affected was a judicious application.
   3. If meat is put into fixed air it does not become putrid,
and even tainted meat becomes sweet by immersion in fixed
air.
   4. Fixed air also takes off inflammation ; for if a blister
be cut, and fixed air be applied, the pain instantly ceases.
   5. In this case it evidently promoted action, for after
each application a moisture always prevailed ; the incrusta
tions were before hard and dry.
   6. As the cure has existed seven years, a relapse is not to
be dreaded; and this case          is,
                                   think,
                                    I        very striking ex
                                                     a
ample of the propriety, not of the " madness," of the ap
plication of the pneumatic agents.
               I  have the honour to remain, dear sir,
                       Your obliged devoted friend,
                                          Robert. John Thornton.
  XIII. A specific       Remedy    for     the Tinea Capitis.       By
                       Mr. James Barlow.
                          To   Mr.       Tilloch.
HSIR,
 erewith         you will receive an account of specific re a
medy for the tinea capitis the insertion of which in your
                               ;
valuable Magazine will much oblige
                                Your obedient servant,
Blackburn, Lancashire,                     JAMES BARLOW.
   October 20, 1805.
   Most practitioners in medicine must have frequently ex
perienced the difficulty of curing this obstinate malady. The
intractableness of most children when attempted to be con
trolled or governed      the accustomed mode of treatment,
                         by
renders the disease in most instances very difficult to subdue;
and the quickness with which the hair of the scalp grows
in children, has hitherto almost always rendered every effort
to conquer the disease of no avail.
  It  was from    constant failure under the numerous and
                  a
diversified remedies which have been recommended        au          by
thors in this malignant disease, that was led to adopt the
                                               I
                               E    3            subjoined

 70         On the Decomposition    of Alkaline Sulphurets
                                                       %
  subjoined lotion ; and I am happy to announce to the pub
  lic,  that by bathing the affected head therewith a few times,
 morning and evening, and suffering the parts to dry with
 out intcrmp-ion, the scabs will decorticate and peel off
 from the scalp, and leave the parts underneath perfectly
 healed ; and this without torturing the patient by either
 shavine; the head or cutting off the hair.           I have been in
 the habit of treating this disease in this manner, and with
 this application, for the last ten years, and have invaria
 bly found it to answer (when duly applied)" both in chil
 dren and adults; and in many inveterate cases even where
 every other means had been previously used without effect,
 sorrfc of which were of several years standing.
       li. Kali sulphurat. (recens prcparat.) jiij.
            Sapo. alb. Hispan. 3 jss.
            Aq. calcis 3 vijss.
            Spir. vinos, reet. 3ij.
         Ft. Lotio pro tinea capitis.
     Might not the above remedy for tinea capitis be effica
 cious in relieving that dreadful endemic disease called tri-
 cliuma, or plica polonica ?
 XI V.     On the Decomposition of Alkaline Sulpkurets ly the
      Oxides of Lead and of Manganese.           By M. DrzE* .
IF     charcoal be mixed with an alkaline sulphate, and then
 exposed     to a high temperature, the oxygen, one of the
 constituent parts of the acid, burns the charcoal, quitting
the sulphur which served as its radical ; with which the
 alkali then combines, forming what is called an alkaline
sulphuret.       This combination, which is a result of the de
composition of the alkaline sulphates by the charcoal, is not
so easily destroyed as might be supposed, especially when
large masses are operated upon. The exposure, frequently
repeated,. of the alkaline sulphurets to a managed heat, is
not sufficient to cause the sulphur to volatilize ; for the
alkali still retains enough of it to render it improper for cer
tain operations in the arts ; and the sulphur during its vo
latilization is partly deflagrated, and forms sulphurous acid,
which combines with the alkali.              Thus the operation is
rendered more complex instead of being simplified, since
we obtain only an alkali mixed with sulphuret ami alkaline
sulphite.
                    • Frnm
                           fan Mocs-s Juunal, No. ls.
                                                                The

           by the Oxides   of Lead and of Manganese.        7 1
    "The addition of carbonate of lime to a mixture of char
coal and alkaline sulphate, as was the practice in the first
manufactory of soda, established at St. Deny?, near Paris,
was not an expensive way of decomposing pretty speedily
the sulphuret of soda resulting from the decompaction of
the sulphate of soda bv charcoal ; nevertheless the soda was
still contaminated with sulphuret and with sulphite of soda,
which might be detected by the smell and by the crystal
lization.     The substitution of iron for carbonate of lime,
or these two substances employed together, gave no bt ttcr
result. The whole of the alkali could not be obtained pure
till after repeated washings, calcinations, and crystalliza
tions.
     Such is the state of our knowledge of the means of puri
fying in the large way, and without incurring too great an
expense, the alkalies which may be prepared by the decom
position of the alkaline sulphates. These difficulties, which
appear of little consequence in the operations of the labora
tory, become very embarrassing in large manufactories,
where the results ought to be equally speedy and easy to be
obtained.
     Of all these processes the best is that employed in the
manufactory of St. Dcnvs, near l'aris, and which was pub
 lished at the time by order of government.       This process
is still the most simple, and most easy to be executed in
 the large way ; at least it has been judged so according to
 experience. I believe that the result of my researches upon
 the decomposition of the sulphurets must add to its perfec
 tion, and afford some indication of which use may be made
 in analogous operations.
     J shall not detail all the experiments which have led me
 to this improvement, but shall now state the means which
 I employ tor decomposing the alkaline sulphurets, or freeing
 the soda from the last portions of sulphuret and alkaline
 sulphite which it contains.
     After having proceeded to the decomposition of the sul
 phate of soda, by the mixture of charcoal and carbonate of
 lime, we lixiviate the crude soda, in order to extract the
 alkali from it. This lixivium is commonly of a yellowish
 colour, and exhales the odour of sulphur: if we mix with
 it some drops of diluted sulphuric acid, sulphur is precipi
 tated, and hydro-sulphurated gas and sulphurous acid are
 rapidly disengaged.
     Were we to evaporate afterwards and crystallize this lix
 ivium, we should obtain crystals of soda, from which di
luted sulphuric acid would disengage hydrosulphuret and
                               E4                  sulphurous

 78       On tke Decomposition           of Alkaline Sulphurets
  sulphurous acid. The rest             of the liquor would give
                                                               soda
  less pure than the first crystallization.
     To purify this lixivium, and free the alkali from the sul
  phur which it contains in solution, and cause the sulphite
  to disappear, I add to the ley, while it is in ebullition, a
  sufficient quantity of well pulverized semi-vitreous oxide of
  lead.   This oxide separates the sulphur from the alkali, and
  forms by its combination an insoluble sulphuret of lead :
  the sulphite disappears, and is converted into sulphate. The
  semi-vitreous oxide of lead loses its red colour, and assume*
  a deep chestnut or blackish hue, by reason of the quantity
 of sulphur which the alkali contains. The liquor or lixi
  vium becomes as clear as pure water ; dilute sulphuric acid
 disengages from it only carbonic acid gas, and forms no pre
  cipitate : in a word, this lixivium precipitates the nitrate of
 lead in a white state, and the sulphate of copper is a beau
 tiful green ; whilst, previous to the addition of the semi-
 vitreous oxide of lead, the same lixivium precipitated these
 two metals of a very dark chestnut colour, that is to say,
 in the state of sulphuret. Thus the semi-vitreous oxide of
 lead, in the humid way, carries off the sulphur from the
 alkali of the soda, and may serve for purifying in the largo
 way, and in a very easy manner, the soda proceeding from
 the decomposition of the sulphate of soda.
     After these experiments, and a calculation of the expense
of the semi-vitreous oxide of lead, I substituted for         with   it,
equal success, oxide of manganese well pulverized.            This
oxide, which       cheaper than the former, presents another
                    is
advantage      : may be employed several times for the same
                   it
operation, freeing       first from the sulphur
                             it                                 by
                                                       simple cal
cination.
    The facility with which sulphur           thus separated from
                                                    is
soda in the humid way, without engaging             in  new com
                                                           it    a
bination, that       to say, leaving
                        is                 isolated and dissolved
                                               it
in the liquid, induced me to try the same means for de
composing sulphuret of barytes; and my attempt was at
tended with success.
               Decomposition      of   Sulphuret     of   Barytes.
  In order   to obtain barytes in    caustic state, sulphate of
                                           a
barytes    commonly decomposed with charcoal, from which
          is
first operation results  sulphuret of barytes soluble in water:
                              a
this sulphuret          is
                    decomposed   with nitric acid distillation  :
separates the nitric acid from the barytes, and this alkali
remains pure, and fixed at the bottom of the retort.      This
process   is extremely expensive, on account of the large
                                                       quantity

             by the Oxides   of Lead and of Manganese.          73
quantity of nitric acid which it requires. Barytes will cer
tainly become a very valuable substance for the arts, when
we shall be able to procure it at a reasonable price.
   The following is the most simple and the most cecono-
mical means which I have discovered, and which I had a
long time practised for my own use.
   When sulphuret of barytes is made by the decomposition
of sulphate of barytes and charcoal, I dissolve it in water ;
after having let it settle and clear itself, I decant it into a
vessel, in which I boil          it,
                               adding to   itpulverized oxide of
manganese,    till the liquor has lost its yellow colour, and    is
become clear and limpid.
   In proportion as the oxide of manganese separates the
sulphur from the barytes, the odour of sulphur diminishes,
and instead of      an alkaline odour
                    it                     is
                                            perceived   the taste
                                                        ;
of the liquor, when all the sulphur          combined with the
                                            is
manganese, has      aconsiderable degree of causticity  ;as soon
asit cools,    too much water has not been employed for the
               if
solution of the sulphuret, the barytes crystallizes round the
vessel.
   Nitrate of lead and sulphate of copper are precipitated
from their solvents      by  caustic barytes, the first in  a white,
and the second in        a blue form   :thus oxide of manganese
has    a stronger affinity with sulphur than either soda or
caustic barytes has, since this oxide, at the mere degree of
ebullition, decomposes these alkaline sulphurets completely.
This process appeared to me simple enough to be applied
to the preparation of these two alkalies upon       a   large scale,
so as to afford them at       a reasonable expense to the arts in
which they may be used.
   Since   I first perceived that oxide of manganese attracted,
in the humid way, sulphur from fixed alkalies and from
barytes, this means has been           agreat assistance to me in
getting rid of the alkaline sulphurets in many analytical
operations, in which the presence of the alkaline sulphuret
embarrassed me, without my requiring an acid to decom
pose   it.
  Soda and barytes prepared by this process are very pure,
and are obtained at     very moderate expense, especially
                             a
barytes.
                                                        XV. Pro

    XV.     Process   for     preparing         pure     Gallic Acid.        By.
                              M. RlCHTER*.
INFUSE in cold water one pound           and a half of gall nuts,
previously reduced   to fine powder, taking care frequently to
agitate the mixture.    Pass   the liquid through a cloth ; add
water to the pulp  which   refuses   to igo through, and again
put it through the  cloth,   using  a press to separate the wa
ter. Join the liquors,    and    with  a gentle heat evaporate,
them, and a maiter of a dark brown colour, and very brittle>
will be obtained.
    Pure alcohol poured on this matter, reduced to a fine
powder, acquires a pale straw colour.             The deposit infused
a^ain in   alcohol  communicates     but   little   colour to it. The
brown residuum      now    left is  composed        almost wholly of
pure   tannin.
    Mix the two alcoholic extracts, which distil in a small
retort to one eighth.      What remains will he almost a solid
mass. Pour water to           it,
                              and expose        to  itgentle heat, and,
                                                            a
you   will obtain    clear
                      a    and  almost   colourless     solution.
    Evaporate  this  solution,  and  you    will   obtain  from    very     it
small, white, prismatic crystals.             The liquor furnishes
more, but they are commonly            little coloured.
                                            a                      sufIt    is
ficient to levigate them with water to obtain them very
white. By this process half an ounce of crystals               procured
                                                                     is
from one pound of galls; these crystals are extremely light,
and consequently occupy          considerable space.. They pos
                                    a
sess the    following properties        :
    1.   Thev are less soluble in water             than,   ua   alcohol.         Dis
solved in water they redden                 tincture of turnsole.                They
combine with alkaline carbonates, separating from them
the carbonic acid.
   2. These alkaline gallates form black precipitates            in so
lutions of iron, and fikewise decompose            all  other   metallic
solutions.     But    if  solution of pure gallic acid be added to
                          a
a neutral and perfectly clear solution of iron, no change of
colour takes place till'the solution of iron           decomposed by
                                                            is
the external    air, which      by
                                 oxidating   the iron   still more, and
forming     asulphate    of iron  of   different
                                            a      nature,    more fa
vourable to     the   combination    of   the   gallic   acid  with the
oxide of   iron  in  excess,   produces     black
                                                a   colour.     If to               a
solution  of  iron   you  add  oxide of  iron  recently    precipitated,
you immediately obtain
                                ablack precipitate. 'The same rq-
                  •   From the Annales      de Ckimit,   voL lii.
                                                                                  suit

              Process       for preparing   pure Gallic Acid.          75
suit is    obtained by bringing oxide of iron in contact with a
 solution of pure gallic acid.
     Iron treated with a solution of gallic acid soon commu
 nicates to it a black colour, which, however, can hardly
 be precipitated from it.
     Tannin is soluble in .gallic acid, and yields with it a
 liquor resembling the infusion of galls, and which has the
 property of instantly Maecipitating acid solutions of iron
 black, by a double affimtv ; the tannin combining with the
 acid, and disengaging oxide of iron, which unites wilh the
 gallic acid.
   . It results from these experiments :
     1 . That gallic acid does not separate iron from sulphuric
 and some other acids, excepting some change of combina
 tion takes place in the solutions : in this case the iron*
 becoming more oxidated, requires a much greater quan
 tity of acid, and the redundant oxide of iron unites with
 the gallic acid.
     2. That when a solution of gallic acid immediately
 forms a black precipitate in neutral solutions of iron, it is
not pure, and commonly contains tannin, which combines
 with the sulphuric acid, and separates from it the oxide of
 iron which is dissolved by the gallic acid.
     3. That during the preparation of gallic acid, all contact
with iron must be avoided, even in the filtering paper,
 which is rarely free from          it,
                                 otherwise the acid      discolour
                                                             is
 ed by    the iron.     It
                         may easily be discovered that the acid
contains iron, when, in evaporation, small violet spots are
formed in the places where the acid          about to crystallize.
                                                  is
     4. That as gallic acid dissolves very readily in alcohol,
and tannin scarcely at all, this reagent may be employed to
separate them.        The alcohol, however, should be very
strong   ;   for, if  contain
                       it     ever so little water, some tannin
will be dissolved.
     5. Of all the processes recommended for the preparation
of gallic acid, this furnishes          in the greatest abundance
                                          if it
and of the best quality.      For,     we consider in particular
that recommended some years ago, which consisted in em
ploying the solution of muriate of tin, afterwards sulphu
rized hydrogen gas, and lastly alcohol, we may readily con
ceive, particularly       we have practised
                            if                         it,
                                                    how defective,
expensive, and disadvantageous           must be; and at last
                                            it                         it
amounts to nothing more than rendering tannin insoluble
in alcohol and nothing
              ;                  effected excepting that this re
                                    is
agent dissolves gallic acid alone. As to the process which
recommends the use of glue, that             quite as bad you in
                                                  is              :
          7                                                           deed

76         Biographical    Sketch  of Mr. George Margets.
t?ced     succeed   in separating the greatest part of the tannin ;
but   considerable portion, nevertheless, remains in solution;
      a
and it even appears that the liquor which is obtained after the
separation of the precipitate formed by the glue is nothing
but a combination of glue, tannin, and gallic acid, from
which not an atom of gallic acid in pure crystals can be
procured.
                                            *
XVI.   Biographical Sketch of Mr. George Margets,
   Chronometer-maker to the East India Company, and
   Author of the Longitude and Horary Tables.
M      n. George Margets was the fourteenth and youngest
 child of John Margets and Martha Ellis his wife.      He was
 born on the 17th of June 1748, in the parish of Old Wood
 stock, in Oxfordshire.     His father was a wheelwright, to
 which profession his two eldest brothers were brought up.
 George, however, being early distinguished by the vivacity
 of his apprehension, was intended for a commercial em
 ployment, and was sent to school for the rudiments of a
 suitable education : but the death of the old man inter
 rupted this design ; and the elder brothers unwilling to be
 at the expense of accomplishing the purpose of their father,
 George was obliged to follow the profession of his family.
     He was placed by his father at the school of the reverend
 Mr. Ridding, where his genius was early distinguished
 above all his fellow-scholars for an assiduity very unusual
 to boyish years, and especially for an eager interest in the
 subtleties of arithmetic.    At the age of fourteen he was
 apprenticed to his brother ; in which situation he became
 so devoted to his favourite studies, that he used to rise by
 three o'clock in the summer mornings to follow his own
 pursuits, previous to the hour of going to his trade.
     About the age of eighteen he constructed a machine which
 exhibited the different motions of the earth.     Of the con
 trivance and movements of that performance, no means of
judging remain ; it is only by his own estimation of       it,
                                                          after
he had acquired celebrity as      time-piece maker, that
                                    a                            it
                                                                 is
 supposed to have merited preservation.         When he had
 finished   it  he began to make       clock
                                        a      but not having
                                                ;
 enough of brass, and little pocket-money, he was obliged
 to break up the machine to complete the clock, which             is
 still in existence  and, though
                     ;              rough piece compared with
                                    a
those accurate chronometers with which he has benefited
                                                   navigation,

         Biographical   Sketch  of Mr. George   Mar gets.      77
navigation, is exceedingly curious, as it exhibits the diurnal
motion of the earth, the progress of the zodiac, the spring
and neap tides, with the revolution of the seasons.         There
is an anecdote connected with the history of this clock that
deserves to be recorded.        A gentleman one day had occa
sion to speak with Margets, and not being pleased with
his answer to a question, exclaimed peevishly, You are a
fool.     ' No, sir,' was the retort ; ' that I am not a fool I
can easily convince you.'       The peculiarity of the reply sur
prised the gentleman, who immediately asked an explana
tion ; and was conducted to the apartment where the clock
 hung, and several other little finished and incomplete pieces
of mechanism lay scattered.         On this incident hinged the
 success of his future life.    The gentleman, surprised by the
 unexpected displav of mechanical genius, spoke of it among
 his acquaintance, by whom a knowledge of Margets reached
 the duke of Marlborough, who afterwards, as shall be re
 lated, became his patron.       About this time, to supply the
 want of money, that he might obtain materials for prose
 cuting his favourite pursuits, he painted, during his leisure
 hours, the names of the proprietors on the waggons and
 carts of the neighbourhood, — the act which imposed that
 regulation being then executing.      It deserves to be noticed,
 that although so earnestly attached to the higher mechanical
 works, such was his general ability, that he excelled all the
 common wheelwrights at their sole employment, and could,
 in any given time, perform more work than the best of his
 brother s journeymen.
     After finishing his apprenticeship he remained two years
  with his brother: his proficiency by this time in the know
  ledge of clocks and watches had become so well known,
  that all the intervals of his regular business were employed
  in repairing the clocks and watches in the vicinity of Wood
  stock.    At the age of twenty-three he went to London, for
  the purpose of obtaining a regular knowledge of watch
  making ; and the duke of Marlborough paid the fee that
  was demanded before he could be admitted into the shop
  of an artist. It can easily be conceived, and the sequel
   will show how justly, that a man so assiduous, and so de
  voted to that profession, which Margets was now allowed
   to cultivate, would soon excel all common competitors,
   and improve and extend the boundaries of his art.
      In 1776 he married the eldest daughter of Mr. Bellamy,
   of Charles-street, Long Acre, by whom he had only one
   child, that died in infancy.    Mrs. Margets is still living.
                                                              After

  *S      Biographical   Sketch of Mr. George Margets.
     After his marriage Mr. Margets continued to apply l<>.
 his adopted profession with that perseverance and assiduity
 which characterizes the attachments of eager and enter
 prising minds, and which with humbler talents is respected
 as the virtue of industry.   His attention was chiefly directed
 to .the improvement of his machines, which from the pe-
 culiarity-and elegance of their construction became articles
 of exportation to India, and were sought after for that pur
 pose with such an increasing demand, that his pecuniary
 circumstances were in consequence gradually benefited.
 About the year 1780 or 1781, however, when the political
 affairs of Hmdostan were so much distracted as to affect all
interested in the Indian trade, his stock of goods began to
swell in his possession, and his customers to diminish ; by
which he found himself compelled to solicit the assistance
of some friends, who very readily granted him a considera
ble accommodation on his own bond.           But unfortunately
their friendship was rendered, in the end, of very vexatious
consequence to them as well as to him, by the chicanery of
an unprincipled attorney, who persuaded them to put the
bond in suit, and to sell off the stock of Mr. Margets- shop>,
the proceeds of which he kept to himself.
    Mr. and Mrs. Margets at this time retired to private
lodgings, where he persevered in his business with unre-
initted zeal, occasionally occupying the intervals with the
composition of those longitude and horary tables that have
proved the speculation of his thoughts to have been superior
to mere mechanical ingenuity.         His longitude tables were
published about the year 1790, and were immediately re
cognized and acknowledged by the most distinguished na
vigators and mathematicians. M.deLalande mentions them
several times in very flattering terms of approbation ; and
several of the boards and public companies of this country
patronized and extended their use both by subscription and
recommendation.        Soon after, he completed his horary ta
bles, which, with the others, form the best assistance to
mariners for finding the longitude by astronomical observa
tions that has been offered to the public.        Besides these
tables, he invented many little mathematical machines,
which, as they were rather subjects of amusement than
study, arc scarcely deserving of particular enumeration.
From the epoch of his authorship till the summer of 1 804,
he had no very important object in view, and continued to
enjoy the emoluments of his business and publication with
respect, and a growing reputation : indeed, the intensenes*
                                                              of

           'Biographical Sketch  of Mr.   George Margets.        79
t>f   his assiduity had so affected his sight, that he was at one
 tirfte threatened   with total blindness, and obliged to sustain
 an operation on his eyes in 1801.
     The circumstances that remain to be noticed arc of a
 most distressing and melancholy nature.             Mr. Margets
 had been all his life, like every other man whose thoughts
 are employed on abstract objects, or in the adjustment of
 equilibria in machinery, Temarkable for an impatience of
 interruption in his pursuits, attended with a violence of
 choler that often rendered him irksome to himself as well
 as to his acquaintance.      On the 27th of June 1804 he was
 seized by the most deplorable malady that can fall upon the
 human race. The whole of that day he had been unusually
 passionate and dissatisfied : in the evening, while he was
 sitting with Mrs. Margets, and two young ladies who then
 resided with her, he became calmer, and began to express
 a kind of contrition for his extravagance: suddenly an ap
 prehension of insanity flashed upon his mind, and he ex
 claimed, " Good God, is this to end in madness!" and,
 bursting into tears, continued to weep with his family,
 whose affliction may be easier imagined than described.
 His disorder continued to increase, and the lucid intervals
 to diminish : he was, however, for several days not altoge
 ther incapable of business.        In this state he forced the fa
 mily to go with him to Portsmouth, where they continued
 about two weeks, in the unhappy situation of seeing the
 ravages of the disease upon his person.         At length he was
 persuaded to return home to London, where proper attend
 ance and advice were immediately procured ; but his case
 was of such a class that Dr. Willis entertained no hope of
 his recovery. In the course of a month, so entirely had
 the disease enveloped his intellects, that he had lost the oc
 casional sense of his own distressful condition ; and it was
 thought advisable to send him to St. Luke's, where he would
 be prevented from committing any violent actions.            After
 he had continued in that hospital about four months he
 began to refuse his food and medicine, and grew so ill and
 meagre that it was not expected he could live long.            He
 was therefore taken home.         As he approached the period
 of life his strength decreased; but his mind assumed a more
 coherent character, and his reason seemed to return. About
 three days before he died his faculties were restored ; his
 strength, however, was reduced so low that he could not
 speak without pain.       He died on the 27th of December
  1804.                                                   J. B. G.
                                                       XVII.   Act-

                               [  80    2
      XVII.    Acidulation     of Sulphate      of    Potash,
                           M. OERSTED*.
              my stay at Berlin,   I had begun in the laboratory
  of M. Hermbstadt      a series of experiments on the inert or
  insipid sulphurous acid of Winterl.        The sulphurous acid
  with which I conducted my operations was made after the
 manner prescribed by Fourcroy and Vauquelin ; but in
 place of obtaining a neutral sulphate I obtained an acidu
 lous sulphate, of which the solution turned blue vegetable
 colours into red, and made an effervescence with acids.
 The neutral combination was scarcely crystallizable.
     The sulphate of potash could no longer change itself into
 a sulphite, as Fourcroy and Vauquelin suppose; but a triple
 salt was formed, composed of sulphuric acid, sulphurous
 acid, and potash. This salt crystallizes itself in hexangular
 prisms: it is less soluble in water than the sulphate of pot
 ash, but more so than the sulphate of the same alkali ; and
 if treated with an acid more powerful, such as sulphuric
acid, it spreads an odour of sulphurous acid gas.
         XVIII.    Proceedings    of Learned         Societies.
                      ROYAL INSTITUTION.
 J. HE   lectures will commence on Monday, the llth of
November, and the several courses will succeed each other
in the following order :
       Mr. Davy, on chemistry.
       Mr. Allen, on natural philosophy.
       Rev. T. F. Dibdin, on English literature.
       Mr. Landseer, on engraving.
       Rev. Sydney Smith, on moral philosophy.
       Dr. Reeve, on moral and physical history of man.
       Rev. William Crowe, on poetry.
       Mr. Opie, on painting.
       Dr. Shaw, on zoology.
      Rev. John Hewlett, on belles lettres.
      Dr. Crotch, on music.
      Rev. Edward Forster, on commerce.
      Mr. Craig, on drawing.
      Dr. Smith, on botany.
                 • From yon Mont-s Journtl, vol. vt,
                                                            LITERARY

                   Original    Vaccine. Pock Institution.          81
    LITERARY AND PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY, NEWCASTLE
                      UPON TYNE.
   This society, in its twelfth year's report, has published
a resolution which, if adopted by other institutions, might
be productive of mutual advantage.      The following is the
resolution to which we allude :
   " That the subscribers to the public library at North
Shields (and to other similar institutions which shall afford
an equal accommodation to the members of the Newcastle
Society) shall be admitted to the rooms without introduc
tion, on producing to the librarian a certificate of their being
members of such institutions."
                ORIGINAL   VACCINE      POCK   INSTITUTION.
   The following statement was entered by Dr. Pearson on
                              '
Friday September 27th :
    1. That the human animal oeconomy and the animal
oeconomy of cows are capable of undergoing the vaccina
once only.
    2. That the human animal oeconomy                    is,
                                                   according to
the most accurate evidence, capable of undergoing small
pox once only.
    3. That the animal oeconomy of cows         unsusceptible of
                                                    is
the small pox.
    4. That the human animal          incapable of taking the
                                          is
small pox subsequently to the cow-pock.
    The preceding propositions are only to serve as founda     a
tion for reasoning conjointly with the following proposi
 tions.
    5. Observations contained in our registered cases show,
 that the change effected in the human animal oeconomy              by
 undergoing the cow-pock or small pox, which renders
    unsusceptible of either of these disorders second time,
is is it
                                                           a
    not wrought in      moment, as
                           a           from an impulse, but
                                          if                        it
    gradually produced during several days.
     The duration      the agency of the vaccine or variolous
                       of
 matter in producing this unsusceptibilily seems to be com
 monly three or four days.
        scarcely or perhaps never commences earlier than the
           It
 8th day after inoculation, nor later than the 12th, unless
 some counteracting agent or circumstance suspend or im
  pede the action of either of the two morbid matters.        Of
  course the duration of the agency of them       for about four
                                                         is
  days successively, from the 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, and per
  haps the 12th. For brevity and distinction, the time during
  which the state of unsusceptibility     effected may be called
                                               is
     Vol. S3. No. 89. Oct. 1805.               F              the

Si                Qriginal    Vaccine Pock Institution,
the antivariolating process ; and the state so produced may
 be named the antwuriolous state.
    6. It appears from instances which are registered, that
variolous and vaccine matter may be circumstanced 80 that
their respective appropriate agencies upon a given human
constitution shall be contemporary ; i. c. commence their
 action at the same time.     In such instances, a very much
 smaller proportion of cases of severe constitutional disorder
 occur than in the singly inoculated small pox ; and al
though eruptions most Frequently appear, they arc most
usually fewer in number, of shorter duration, and detective
as variolous ones in the respects of size, in not suppurating,
and often not containing       infectious matter. Oftentimes
 there are only mere pimples, and sometimes no eruption
at all.
    7. The vaccine matter has in many instances been
known to exert its constitutional agency at various periods,
whilst the antivarinlaiing process is going on by variolous
inoculation ; in which circumstances there was a much
smaller proportion of exemptions from eruptions ; and al
though there were some instances of small pox regular and
perfect, in all their stages of pimple, vesicle, and pustule,
yet there was a very large proportion of slight and defective
variola?., as just stated in proposition 6; and if in certain
cases the small pox did not seem to be mitigated and ren
dered defective, there was no indication that they were in-
any case rendered more severe.         In general, the degree of
the variolous disease was directly as the length of time be
tween the inoculation of variolous matter aad tjie subse
quent inoculation of vaccine matter, within the limits of
space of time in which successive insertions of the two
morbific matters can act in conjunction during the anti-
va.riola.ting    process.
   8. The variolous matter also has been made to exert it*
constitutional agency at various periods of the antivariolat-
ing process excited         \iy
                         vaccine inoculation, and then there
was less proportion of eruptive cases the eruptions were
     a                                        :
in general small, fewer in number, of shorter duration, and
often more defective, in not only having no purulent matter,
but even no lymph, than in the set of cases last mentioned
(proposition7.)    of course the constitutional illness occur
                     :
red hi   smaller proportion than in the preceding cases.
         a
   The principal different circumstances in which the two
morbific matter:) were placed to exert tbeir energies were the
following    :
   1st.  fhe insertion of vaccine and variolous matter into
the saaie punctured or abraded parts.
                                                          Sd. The

               Original Paccine Pock Institution.            83
     2d. The insertion of vaccine and variolous matter into
 the vaccine pimple or vesicle already formed.
     3d. The insertion of vaccine matter into the variolous
 pimple or vesicle already formed.
    4th. The inoculation of variolous and vaccine matter on
 distinct parts, but at the same time.
    5th. The inoculation of variolous matter at certain deter
 minate times, after vaccine inoculation, in distinct parts,
 but on the same person.
    6th. The inoculation of vaccine matter at certain deter
minate times after variolous inoculation,    in distinct parts,
but in the same person.
    7th. The inoculation of the two morbific matters con
tiguously, yet so that either as the vaccine and variolous
grew to a certain size, the matters intermingled, or they
were mingled by perforating the vesicles to render them
confluent.
                           Remarks.
    1 . The inoculation   with the matter of the vaccine and
variolous vesicles existing in the same persons, excited
simple regular vaccina and variola in distinct persons.
    2. The inoculation with the matter of the vesicle pro
duced by the insertion of both vaccine and variolous matter
commonly produced the vaccina without eruptions : some
 times, however, they did occur, but the matter of these
eruptions did not in two or three trials excite either vaccina
 or variola*  From the irregularity of the pock of the inocu
 lated part and the eruptions, it seemed reasonable to con
clude that perhaps such matter consisted of both vaccine
and variolous, which was capable of propagating the two
diseases in some instances conjointly.      The experiments
on this point, however, are considered to be inadequate to
answer the question.
    3. The trials of the late Dr. Woodville and the reporter,
by inoculating with mixed variolous and vaccine matter,
proved formerly that no hybrid disease could be formed :
but their former conclusion does not now seem just, that
in some instances the variolous disease, and in others the
vaccine alone, was excited by such matter ; nor bad they
then the least notion of cotemporary agency of the two
morbific matters both locally and constitutionally.
    4. There will now be no difficulty to explain the in
stances of breaking out of the natural small pox eruptions
between the 8th and 14th day in the vaccine inoculation,
without seemingly disturbing the progress of the vaccine
                              F2                         pock,

 8-1            Original Vaccine Pdck Institution.
 pock, through its stages of pimple, vesicle, scabbing, and
 scarring.
     5. The evidence from the preceding sources of observa
 tion is various, numerous, and uniform, in establishing
 uniformly the law,
     THAT VACCINE MATTER POSSESSES THE PROPERTY OP
 OPPOSING THE AGENCY OF VAUIOLOUS MATTER; BUT
 VARIOLOUS MATTER HAS NOT THIS POWER AGAINbT THE
VACCINE: — the counteracting power is not mutual, it is on
 one side only.
     6. Concerning the application to practice, it seems, from
the establishment of the law just enunciated, to be a con
clusion a Jortiori, that a constitution in which the appro
priate agency of vaccine matter has been exerted, is render
ed incapable of having the appropriate vatiolous agency
excited; but,
     7. The numerous occurrences of the small pox during
the present epidemic variola, in persons who have been
supposed to have been vaccinated, prove that the process of
vaccination had not been duly excited. These failures af
ford no objection to the principle, but a great one to the
mode of practice ; and it is fortunate for the public, though
a misfortune to individuals, that the current year has mani
fested the insecurity of many persons who have been ino
culated for the cow-pock, as it may be the means of se
curity for the future.
    The above propositions, which are the result of a great
variety of trials instituted with patient diligence, confirm
the foundation already very strongly established by an infi
nite number of instances of inoculation in common prac
tice, that it is a law, that the human animal ceconomy
is rendered unsusceptible of the variolous disorder, by hav
ing gone through the cow-pock.
    A small proportion of persons have certainly taken the
small pox after supposed vaccination ; and this it was pre
dicted would be the case long ago, in the " Report of this
Institution," and in another work,       "  The Statement of
Evidence;" and it is now asserted, that in a future epide
mical small-pox it may reasonably be expected that many
more will take that disorder.     But the late failures and in
security of many petsons already inoculated for the cow-
pock afford no evidence against the efficacy of vaccination ;
they only manifest,
     I . That some years alter the new practice the history of
vaccine affection was not sufficiently investigated to afford
rules of secure practice.
                                                        2. That

           Imperial Academy    of Sciences, Petersburgh.         65
    2. That many moculators do not appear to have been
 masters of what was investigated         by others, or they had
not had sufficient experience to attain requisite skill.
    3. That a great proportion of asserted failures were mis
taken, either in the patient'" not having the cow-pock in
the first instance, or the small pox in the second.       The re
porter's confidence will not be at all shaken, until in his
own practice he is a witness to very different cases from
those he has hitherto seen; or until professional men, with
equal opportunities and equal attention, have stated their
adverse evidence to the public.       He is persuaded that the
subject of the vaccine disorder is now sufficiently investi
 gated for secure practice, and feels himself justifiable in
affirming, that in future the occurrence of the small pox after
vaccine inoculation     will  be imputable to the inocu-
 LATOR BEING UNQUALIFIED, PROVIDED THE PATIENT BB
OBEDIENT TO HIS DIRECTIONS.
    It is necessary to notice, that the property of vaccine
matter in counteracting the agency of variolous matter
cannot be determined but by a number of trials in different
subjects, because either of the two morbific matters may
act merely locally, and in some cases may fail even to pro
duce local effects.    The reporter, as on former occasions,
is willing, at convenient opportunities, to repeat any of the
trials to prove the above results from evidence at the Insti
tution.
    Note. — It is a reasonable inference, that if a person has
already received the small pox matter into the constitution
at the time of vaccine inoculation, there will be not only a
ehance of the agency of the vaccine matter, so as to antici
pate that of the variolous altogether, but also of a coinci
dent agency, by which the small pox will be mitigated.
Hence, persons who had been exposed to variolous effluvia
ought, of all others, to be inoculated with vaccine matter.
   P. S. Having no doubt excited the most interesting cu
riosity, and perhaps great doubts of the validity of the con
clusions in the above minutes, — if required by our readers,
we shall ask permission to illustrate them by examples          in
practice, which are registered at the Institution for insertion
m future numbers.
    IMPERIAL ACADEMY         OP SCIENCES, PETERSBURGH.
   The minister of the Russian marine, vice-admiral
Tchitchagoff, has sent to the academy a question on the
                              F3                       resistance

86        Imperial Academy    of Sciences, Petersburgh.
resistance of fluids, and its application to naval architecture,
which    the academy has published in the following terms :
    Of the two theories of the resistance ot fluids proposed and
 applied to naval architecture by Don G. Juan, in his Exa-
 inen Maritime, and by M. Romme, in his Art de la Ma
rine, it is proposed that one or the other of them, for ex-
 ample,that of Don Juan, shall be corrected and improved to
 such a degree, as to afford results that shall differ from the
 results of experiment by so small a quantity as may be
practically neglected without sensible error : —-Or, if these
 theories cannot be corrected, that a new theory shall be
established and applied to naval architecture, which shall
lead to conclusions of the same degree of accuracy; —Or,
lastly, if it should be impossible to establish such a theory,
it is proposed, that from experiments at least there should
be deduced a formula resembling those which have been
given by Messrs. Bossut and Prony ; and such that it shall
Be not only more conformable to experiments than those
formulas, but that it shall lead as nearly as possible to the
conclusions drawn from experiments, even when the for
mula shall be applied to naval architecture.
    For the satisfactory solution of this problem the depart
ment of the marine has appointed a prize of 1000 Dutch
ducats. Papers will be received till the 1st of July 1 806,after
which period no memoirs addressed to the academy will be
received on this subject, the time appointed being sufficient
for those nevv experiments which the solutions in question
render indispensable. The memoirs forwarded to the aca
demy must be written in a distinct legible character, either
in the French, English, or Russian language.
    The academy requires men of science who intend to
make application for this prize, to address their memoirs to
jjie perpetual secretary of that body, before the 1st of July,
1806, and that the writer should clear the post charges as
far as the regulations of their respective countries will al
low. The customary mode of marking the memoirs with
a device or motto, and sending at the same time a sealed
letter, having the same device, and containing the name
and residence of the author, is also to be adopted in the
present instance.     The memoirs will be examined by the
department of the marine and by the academy ; the latter
of whom will publish the judgment they shall adopt, and
the department of the marine will bestow the prizeon that
author who shall have satisfied the conditions of the pro
gram.
                                                       XIX.  fy

                            I   87   1
        XIX.   Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
 RESTORATION OF THE GREGORIAN CALENDAR IN FRANCS.
 JDr a decree of the French conservative senate, the new.
calendar is to be abolished, and the old one substituted in
its stead.    The following is an extract respecting this
change from the registers of the senate, of the 9th of Sep
 tember :
   The conservative senate, assembled to the number of
members prescribed by the 90th article of the act of the
constitution, Frimaire 22, year 8 5
   Having seen the project of the senatus-consultum drawn
up according to the form prescribed by the 57th article of
the constitution, of Thermidor 16, year 10;
   Having heard, on the motives of the said project,' the
orators of government, and the report of the special com
mission appointed on the 15th of Fructidor, year 13, de
crees as follows :
   Art. I. Counting from the 11th of Nivose next, Jan. 1,
1 606, the Gregorian calendar shall be employed throughout
the whole of the French empire.
   Art. II. The present senatus-consultum shall be trans
mitted by a message to his imperial majesty.
                       The president and secretaries,
        (Signed)     Francis (de Neufchateau) president.
                      ColaUDaud Poucher,       secretaries.
Seen and sealed,
           The Chancellor of    the Senate (Signed)   Laplace.
   The report  made to the senate, in the sitting of Septem
ber y, 1805,   by the senator Laplace, in name of a special
commission appointed to examine the project of the senatus-
cousultum in regard to the re-establish«>ent of the Grego
rian calendar :
      " SENATORS,
   " The project of the senatus.consultum which wras pre
sented to you in the last sitting, and on which you are going
to deliberate, has for its object the restoration in France of
the Gregorian calendar, reckoning from the 1 st of January
1806. It is not necessary at present to examine which of
all the calendars possible is the most natural and the most
simple ; we shall only say, that it is neither the one we are
about to abandon, nor that which we propose to resume.
The orator of government has explained to you with great
                              F  4                          care

88       Restoration   of the Gregorian Calendar in Frame.
  care their inconveniences and disadvantages.          The princi
  pal fault of the present calendar is in its intercalation.      By
  fixing the commencement of the year at the midnight which
  at the observatory of Paris precedes the true autumnal
  equinox, it fulfils, indeed, in the most rigorous manner, the
  condition of constantly attaching to the same season the
  origin of the year ; but then they cease to be periods of re
  gular time, easy to be decomposed into davs ; which must
  occasion confusion in chronology, already too much em
  barrassed by the multitude of aeras.             Astronomers, to
  whom this defect is very sensible, have several times re
   quested a reformation of it.      Before the first bissextile year
  was introduced into the new calendar, they proposed to the
   committee of public instruction of the National Conven
   tion to adopt a regular intercalation, and their demand was
   favourably received.      At that period the convention re
   turned to good principles ; and, employing itself with in
   struction and the progress of knowledge, showed to the
   learned a deference ana consideration, the remembrance of
-
   which they retain. They will always recollect with lively
   gratitude, that several of its members, by a noble devotion
   in the midst of the storms of the revolution, preserved from
   total destruction the monuments of the sciences and the
   arts. Romme, the principal author of the new calendar,
    convoked several men or letters ; he drew up, in concert
   with them, the project of a law by which a regular mode of
    intercalation was substituted for the mode before esta
   blished ; but, involved a few days after in a horrid event,
    he perished, and his project of a law was abandoned.            It
    would, however, be necessary to recur to      it,
                                                    if  we preserved
    the present calendar  ;  which, beinc thereby changed in one
    of its most essential elements, would present the irregularity
    of first bissextile placed in the third year. The suppres
     a
    sion of the decades made      itexperiencea    more considerable
    change.     They gave the facility of finding every moment
    the time of the month     ;  but at the end of each year the
    complementary days disturbed the order of things attached
    to the different days of the decade, which then rendered ad
    ministrative measures necessary.       The use of small inde
                                                        a
    pendent period   of  months  and   years, such as the week, ob
    viates this inconvenience  ;   and already that period has been
    re-established in   France;    which, since the highest anti
    quity,  in which  its origin   islost, circulates without inter
    ruption through     centuries,   mingling with the successive
    calendars of different nations.
       But the greatest inconvenience of the new calendar           is
                                                                  the

       Restoration   of the Gregorian Calendar in France.            89
the embarrassment which it produces in our foreign rela
tions, by insulating us in that respect in the midst of Eu
rope ; which would always exist, for we ought not to hope
that this calendar can ever be universally admitted.                Its
epoch     relates  merely  to our history   : the moment    when    its
year    commences     is placed  in a  disadvantageous   manner,     as
it participates in and divides between two years the same
operations and the same labours : it has inconveniences
which would be introduced into civil life, as the day begins
at noon, according to the usage of astronomers.              Besides,
this custom would relate only to the meridian of Paris.              In
seeing others reckon the longitude from their principal ob
servatories, can it be believed that they would all agree in
referring to the commencement of our year ? Two centuries
 were necessary, and the whole influence of religion, to cause
the Gregorian calendar to be generally adopted. It is in
this universality, so desirable and so difficult to be obtained,
 and which it is of importance to preserve when it is ac
 quired, that its greatest advantage consists. This calendar
 is now that of almost all the nations of Europe and Ame
 rica : it was a long time that of France : at present it regu
 lates our religious festivals, and it is according to it that
 wc reckon our centuries.            It no doubt has several consi
 derable defects.      The length of its months is unequal and
 whimsical, the origin of the year does not correspond to
 that of any of the seasons ; but it answers very well the
 principal object of a calendar, by being easily decomposed
 into days, and retaining nearly the commencement of the
 mean year at the same distance from the equinox.                    Its
 mode of intercalation is convenient and simple.              It is re
 duced, as is well known, to the intercalation of a bissextile
 every four years ; the suppression of it at the end of each
 century, for three consecutive centuries, m order to re-esta
 blish it at the fourth; and     if,   by following this analogy, we
  still suppress a   bissextile every four thousand years,      it will
  be founded on the true length of the year.           But in its pre
  sent state, forty centuries would be necessary to remove,
  only by    one day, the origin of the mean year from its real
  origin.     The French mathematicians, therefore, have never
 ceased to subject to    it   their astronomical tables, become,
 by    their extreme precision, the base of the ephemerides of
  all enlightened nations.
     One might be afraid that the return of the old calendar
 would soon be followed       by   the re-establishment of the old
 measures.        But the orator of government has taken care to
  dispel that fear.     Like him,  I    am persuaded, that instead
                                                                      of

     90                   Earthquake at Naples
    of re-establishing   the prodigious number of different mea
    sures which    prevailed   in France and shackled its interior
    commerce, — government, fully convinced of the utility of
    an uniform system of measures, will take the most effectual
    means for accelerating the use of them, and for overcoming
    the resistance still opposed to it by old habits, which are
    already disappearing every day.
       Fromthese considerations your commission unanimously
   proposes the adoption of the "senatus-consultum presented
   by the government.
                       EARTHaUAKE AT NAPLES.
       Naples, August 9. — The duke d'Ascoli, the minister of
  the    police, has transmitted to government the following
   report  :
       " The terrible earthquake which was felt in this capital,
  and the provinces of the kingdom of Naples, on the 26th
  pf July, at ten in the evening, has occasioned, according to
  the reports     which have hitherto been received here, the
  following    devastation and damage : — In the capital, several
  houses, churches, and convents, have been thrown down :
  a woman was buried under the ruins of the palace of Cor-
 sigliano : 470 buildings have greatly suffered, and threatened
 to fall down.       The palace of Caserta, and a number of pri
 vate houses, have suffered nearly in the same proportion :
 a woman in them was killed.           At Nola, a part of the bar
 racks belonging to the cavalry, and several houses, sus
 tained great damage; but no lives were lost.         At St. Mary
 of Capua (a fortress in the neighbourhood of Capua), a
 part of the barracks belonging to the cavalrv was almost
entirely thrown down : eleven soldiers were killed, and
 thirty-four    severely wounded.      At Ncvano, and the envi
rons,     the  inhabitants   suffered  very little. The town of
Isernia is almost entirely fallen to ruins, and more than a
thousand people were found dead in it : a part of the inha
bitants were saved by betaking themselves to flight. During
these dreadful shocks, which convulsed every thing, flames
were observed to issue from the earth throughout an extent
of several leagues.       A small part of the town sustained no
damage.       In the  same  province in which Isernia is situated,
Campo-Basso, Cerreto, Baraniello, and about seven other
places, sustained a fate almost similar ; but the number of
the dead is not yet known.            In the town of Montefusco
all the houses were damaged; the bell of the collegiate
church fell down ; a woman was killed, and several other
persons were wounded.           The town of Avellino shared the
                                                             same

                     Earthquake at Naples.                         9i
same fate  :  some persons and several seminarists perished.
The town of Chieti       suffered very little : some houses only
were damaged.       At  Salerno the earthquake was strongly
felt?  but it  occasioned    very little loss,    At Finocella and
Mola di Barn, in Apulia, nearly the same scenes took place.
In the districts around Vesuvius the earthquake was less
felt than elsewhere; the air having found a way to escape
through the volcano."
    " Naples August 10. — Mount Vesuvius has lately made
such an eruption, that one similar to it has not been wit
nessed for a long time : the lava ran down in such quantity,
and so rapidly, from the summit of the mountain, that in
less than two hours it reached the sea\          In its course it di
vided itself into three parts, which ran between the Torre
del Greco and the Torre del Annonziata .- on this account
it occasioned less damage than if it had fallen in one cur
rent on these twp towns.          It is a lamentable spectacle to
see the vines, the corn-fields,     and the houses swallowed up
in a sea of fire, and covered to the depth of three toises with
iron ore ; for the lava which ran down on this occasion had
absolutely that character. The queen, who was at Castel-
mare, was not able to return to Naples by land ; for the
road is covered with three causeways of lava, the least of
which is three hundred paces ; ana it was also impossible
for her to go to the theatre of St. Charles, to see the repre
sentation given on her birth-day.          It is much to be feared
that this country will experience the fate of Herculaneum
and   Pompeii."
    Extract of another Letter. — " After the terrible earth
quake of the 26th ult. we began to resume a little security;
but subterranean     noises being heard from Vesuvius, an
eruption of the volcano was apprehended, and the inhabi
tants of Torre del Greco and l'Annonziata removed from
their houses, and thought of providing for the safety of
their persons and valuables. About a quarter past two in.
the afternoon Vesuvius made an extraordinary eruption
through the same mouth which gave a passage to that in
1794.     The latter was even more considerable, having-
thrown out a current of inflamed lava, which proceeded
with great rapidity as far as the plain, over a space of about
four miles, and then took its course towards the sea, which
it reached in about nine hours.
   " It was observed that from its origin this current divided
itself into two branches ; one in the direction of Portici,
which luckily then turned aside, and, uniting itself to the
other, formed in the middle a kind of island of boiling lava,
                                                              which

 gi          Voyages and Travels, Aerostation,   &c.
 which was swallowed up in the sea ; where there was seen
 suddenly formed and raised up, a kind of promontory of
 volcanic matters.     For about twenty minutes the whole
 extent of the ground occupied by the lava continued in
 flames, exhibiting, as we may say, a terrible but astonish
 ing spectacle; especially as the inflamed trees presented the
 aspect of white flames in contrast with those of the volcanic
 matters, which were red.      The lava, as has been said, pro
 ceeded to the sea in this manner with great rapidity, carrying
 along with it enormous masses ; and nothing was seen in a
 great extent of the coast but boiling foam, and eddies of
 water and of fire.    Several persons who were at Portici be
 took themselves to flight in boats before the torrent of fire
 mixed itself with the waters. Happily the habitations ex
 perienced    no damage, and we have not learnt that any
  person perished during this fatal event."
    Letters from Naples of August 2d estimate the loss sus
 tained in that city by the earthquake of July the 26th at
 twenty millions of ducats.     They add the following parti
 culars, taken from the notice to the Neapolitan govern
 ment by the commissioners sent to the spot : —" At Iser-
 nia, where the commotion was so terrible, the earth opened
 and vomited out flames : 339 families were swallowed up.
 At Castel Petroso 1 3 families perished : at Massino 84 :
 at Tresolone/393 : at Saint- Angelo-in-Colla, 43: at Bara-
 millo, 180: at Cantalupo, 142.        Lorenzauo and Saint-
 Angelo-di-Lombardo are entirely destroyed. A small river
 which flowed through that province, and which traversed
 an extent of fifty leagues, was lost at the distance of four
 leagues from its raouth,"
        VOYAGES AND TRAVELS,         AEROSTATION,    &C.
    A letter from Petersburgh, dated August 3, says,      "We
 have lately received some further account of the progress    of
 the expedition commanded by captain Kruscnstern.        He ar
 rived safe at Japan, where he met with a favourable recep
 tion ; and the ambassador, M. Resanof, entertains hopes
 that his mission will be attended with the best success.
    " The academy of sciences has purchased the philoso
 phical apparatus of M. Robertson, which is remarkable for
 the correctness of the instruments, and particularly those
-destined for electricity and galvanism.
    "The aerostatic experiment which M.Robertson intended
 to make at a great distance from Petersburgh, has been
 changed on account of the bad weather into a common
            5                                           ascent.

                                 Astronomy     .   — Zinc.                                             93
ascent. The wind, which in the morning had a favourahle
direction, carried the aeronauts with great violence towards
 the Baltic.    They set out from the academy of arts at half
after eight, and terminated their voyage at the mouth of the
Neva, at about fifty paces from the sea. When M. Ro
bertson descended with his pupil, he resolved to ascend
alone in order to cross the gulf ; but the peasants having
 drawn the ropes of the balloon too strongly to one side, the
netting slipped from              it,
                             and therefore was impossible for  it
 him to carry his design into execution.    His imperial ma
jesty was    present at this  ascent."
                                      ASTRONOMY.
Table    of       the   right Ascension and Declination                                  of   Ceres and
                           Pallas for November 1805.
                                 Ceres.                                              Pallas.
                            AR          Decl   .N.                              AR            Decl.S.
                            m             o                                     in             o
        1805
                    h              s               /    h                               s          /
    Nov.                    23    0     23         47                           16      32    26
                                                        4 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5
             1      7                                                                               8
             4          7   24    24    23         56                           15      52    27    1
             7      7       25    36      24       5                            14      56    27   51
             10         7   26    32      24       16                           13      44    28   38
             13         7   27    12      24       27                           12      20    29   30
             16         7   27    36      24       40                           10      36    30    4
             19             27    48      24       53                                   44    30   43
                                                                                4 C 8
                        7
             22         7   27    40      25        7                                   36    31    17
             25         7   27    16      25       22                                   20    31   47
             28         7   26    36      25       38                           1       56    32    13
    Dec.     1          7   45    46      25       54                           59      24    32   34
                                          ZINC.
^
   In our List of Patents, page 95 of our last volume, we
mentioned one granted to Messrs. Hobson and Silvester,
of Sheffield, for method of manufacturing zinc. The dis
                            a
covery of these gentlemen       curious. They have found that
                                        is
zinc, at temperature between 210° and 300° of Fahren
             a
heit,   not only very malleable, but may be passed through
        is
rollers or drawn into wire.        Zinc does not return to its
former partial brittleness after being thus wrought, but con
tinues soft, flexible, and extensible, and may De applied to
many uses for which this metal was before thought unfit.
                                                                                                   PURE

    9<                   Pure  Ceruse. — Death.
                             PDRE CERUSE.
      M. Van Mons      states, that it lead ashes be dissolved in a
   sufficient quantitv of dilute nitric acid, assisted by a gentle
   heat, and the solution be filtered, and then precipitated by
   chalk brought to an impalpable powder by levigation, the
   precipitate, when washed and dried, will be the purest aud
   most beautiful ceruse possible.
                               DEATHS.
      On Tuesday,    the 24th instant, died at his house  in Great
  Titchfield-street,   in the 63d year of his age, Mr.    William
  Byrne, a distinguished landscape engraver.         He was edu
  cated under an uncle, who engraved heraldry on plate; but
  having succeeded in a landscape after Wilson, so as to ob
  tain a premium from the Society for the Encouragement of
  Arts, it was regarded as the precursor of talent of a superior
  order, and he was sent to Paris, at that time the chief se
 minary in Europe for the study of engraving, for improve
 ment.      In Paris he studied successively under Aliamet and
 Wille; from the former of whom he imbibed the leading
 traits of that style of engraving which he afterwards adopted
 as his own : under the latter he engraved a large plate of a
 storm, after Vernet ; but the manual dexterity of Wille was
 alien to his mind, and probably contributed not much to
 his improvement, though he always spoke of Wille's in
 structions with respect.
     When he returned to England, the success of Woollctt
 as a landscape engraver had set the fashion in that depart
 ment of the art ; nut Byrne disdained to copy what he did
 not feel; perhaps scorning the influence of fashion in art,
 preserved the independance of his style, and continued to
 study, and to recommend to his pupils, Nature, Vivares,
 and the best examples of the French school.
     His larger performances are after Zuccarelli and Both :
but his principal works (containing probably his best en
gravings) are the Antiquities of Great Britain, after Hcarne ;
a set of Views of the Lakes, after Faringtoti ; and Smith**
Scenery of Italy.       His chief excellence consisting in his
aerial perspective, and the general effect of his chiaro-scuro,
he was more agreeably ana more beneficially employed in
finishing than in. etching ; and hence he generally worked
in conjunction with his pupils, who were latterly his own
son. and daughters.       His manners were unassuming, his
professional industry unremitting, and his moral character
exemplary.      He seldom went from home, but lived in the
bosom of a numerous and worthy family, who are now de
ploying their loss.
                                                             The

              List of Patents for New Inventions.             05
   The death of the celebrated Klaproth, of Berlin, has been
announced in some of the foreign journals.        We are happy
to state that this intelligence is not correct.       He enjoys
good health, and is now in his sixty-second year.
   M. Justus Klaproth, professor of jurisprudence in the
university of Gottingen, well known by the learned works
which he has published on that subject, died on the loth
of February last, in his seventy-seventh year.
   M. Alexander Saverien, engineer of the French marine,
died on the 28th of May last, in his eighty-fifth year.       He
has been long known to the scientific world by his writings
on navigation, and the theory of building, rigging, aud ma
noeuvring of ships ; accounts of instruments for making
observations at sea; his marine dictionary; a dictionary of
the mathematics ; a dictionary of architecture ; history of
modern philosophers, and history of the progress of the
human understanding.        For many of his latter years he was
poor   and  infirm, and  was much indebted to the cares of a
servant who attended him from attachment.           He has left a
widow likewise in want, and very aged.
           LIST  OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
   To John Nyren, of Bromley, in        the county of Mid
dlesex,  muslin bleacher and tambour worker ; for printing
fancy patterns on silk and cotton lacenet, instead of tam
bouring or working them in colours. Dated; September 27,
 1805.                                          "..
                                           ._
   To Stephen Clubb, of Colchester, in the county of
Essex, millwright ; for an improved mangle.          Dated Sep
tember 27j 1805.
   To James Macnaughtan, of Great Queen-street, Lin
coln's Inn Fields, in the county of Middlesex, ironmonger;
for a stove or grate and range upon a new construction, by
which rooms will be much more effectually warmed than
they now are, and the chimneys prevented from smoking.
Dated September 27, 1805.
   To John Syeds, of Fountain Stairs, Rotherhithe Wall,
in the county of Surrey, mathematical instrument maker;
for a steering amplitude or azimuth compass and scale for
finding and working the course of ships at sea. Dated Oc
tober 7, 1805.
   To Daniel Desormeaux, of Barking, in the county of
Essex, surgeon and apothecary, and Samuel Hutchings,
of Ilford, in the said parish of Barkings weaver; for their
improvements in the making and manufacturing of wax,
spermaceti, and tallow candles.     Dated October 22, 1605.
                                                      METEORO-

                                                 Meteorology.
                                  meteorological table
                              Bv Mr. Carev, op the Strand,
                                           For       October    1805.
'.         >''.        .                                                                             .   ;.. >..   «.   .1*
      -                        Thermometer.
                                                                    egrees of Dry-
                                            -2
                                                                                       [ygrometer.
Days of the                                            Height of
                                     a                                                                    Weather.
     Month.                                           the Barom.
                                                                           by                                                 •
                                                                    ess    Leslie's
                                    55 8         2      Inches.
                              £8
                              CO
                                            1
                                            —                       O         C       J.
     Sept. 27 46°                   64°      55°       30'22               35°                       Fair
                  28          54    63       54           •40              22                        Fair.
                  29          50    60      49            •60              31                        Fair
                  30          46    59       53           •50              31                        Cloudy
          Oct.    1           49    59       53           •40              25                        Cloudy '
                              52    63       55           •30              32                        Fair
                  6 5 4 3 2
                              51    60       52           •21              35                        Fair
                              49    60       49           •25              37                        Fair
                              46    61       46           •32             46                         Fair
                              41    56       44           •32               15                       Fair
                              39    58       47           •28              32                        Fair
                  9 8 7
                              47    63       48           •05              12                        Fair
                              50    59       50        29*86                17                       Cloudy
                  10          49    54       40           •55                 6                      Rain
                  11          39    51       39        30.04               27                        Fair
                  12          34    51       44        29•96               26                        Fair
                  13          45    50       42           •65                 0                      Rain
                  14          42    56       48           •52              10                        Showery
                  15          46    54       46           •42              28                        Fair
                  16          44    52       41           •19              10                        Cloudy
                  17          39    46       42           •51                 0                      Rain
                  18          38    49       39          •92               24                        Fair
                  10          34    51       41        30*14               28                        Fair
                  20          39    52       48          •20               10                        Fair
                  SI          45    53       47           •14              14                        Foggy
                  22          48    52       44        29•93               30                        Fair
                  23          44    52       46          •70               15                        Fair
                  24          46    54       46           '56              10                        Cloudy
                  25          49    58       52           •46                                        Cloudy
                  26           50   54       50           •35                  5 7                   Cloudy
                              N. B. The    barometer's height      is   taken at noon.
                                                     MM
                                                      1

                                t   97    ]
XJt.    Account   of  the Goats of Angora i in a Letter            from
          M. Chancev,        to M. Pxctet, of Geneva*.
 JL he kind of goat which is known in Europe by the name
of  the Goat of Angora, is not the only one which exists in
Natolia and in the environs of this city. We find there
also another kind, more common and more resembling that
of Europe. Travellers have imperfectly described those two
races, which are perfectly distinct; and hence arises the un
certainty that prevails in Europe respecting the products of
each. We cannot remove this uncertainty but by a posi
tive description of each of the two races.             This distinction
will prevent us in future from confounding the short wool
of the one kind, which is somewhat like cotton, with the
long and silky hair of the other. The two races of goals
in the neighbourhood of Angora are known by the names of
kara-gueschy and tistik-gueschy.
    l . The kara-gueschy or scys (or black goat) is the com
mon goat, resembling that of Europe; and is found in
Syria, Natolia, and all the East.           Its fleece is black, or of a
deep    brown.   The   hair  is  long  and    straight, sufficientlv fine
at the end which is fixed in the skin, but more black and
coarse at the other end.          The kara-gueschy is shorn every
year.      His hair is of a grosser quality, and is not exported
abroad, but employed in these places for making coarse
stuffs for tents, and for sacks like our hair sacks.                This
fleece of Angora is not more valued than the other goat
fleeces of the East.      Its value in these places is thirty paras
for the ocque of 400 drachms. Under this hair, and upon
the very skin of the animal, there is another fleece finer
and shorter.      It is composed of slender hairs, of which the
length varies from an inch to an inch and a half.                 These,
by their mixture at the root of the longer hairs, form a
short wool of a cotton-like substance and of a yellowish
gray colour.      This part of the fleece, which is by far the
most precious, is obtained by throwing water saturated with
lime upon the side of the animal while it is yet covered
with hair. In a few minutes the hair and the down detach
themselves from the skin, and afterwards are easily sepa
rated from each other.
    The wool of the kara-gueschy is imported rough into
Europe, where it is known by the name of Goat's hair.
It is employed in different manufactures, particularly in
                * From BibHotlicque  Britamiique, No. 198.
Vol.   23.  No. 90. Nov. 180.5.           G                          hat

98                   0«   the Goats    of Angora.
hat-making. It is for this use that Marseilles still continues
to draw a great quantity of this article; and it is to this city
a considerable branch of commerce, and one of the prin
cipal articles of return for our .manufactures which are
consumed in the East.
    The wool of this Goat is less abundant in Syria, and
its quality is not esteemed.          A much greater quantity is
drawn from Angora, from Erzerone, and from the north
of Persia. The province of Kerman furnishes the most
beautiful kind.      In general, all these wools are forwarded
to Smyrna by the caravans of camels which go from Erze-
rone.     From Smyrna they are forwarded to Marseilles and
in the ports of Italy by way of sea.
    The art of spinning the wool of the Goat is known
 only in Syria and NatoTia: except in those two places, it is
 put to no manner of use.          Its value in these places arises
 only from the demand for it from Europe.               At Angora the
 average value is from four to six piastres the ocque of 40O
 drachms.
    The wool of this Goat is also exported rough into
 Europe from Persia and the province of Kerman ; but it has
 there an intrinsic value from the use to which it is put. The
 Persian^ know how to spin it.              They make shawls of it
 similar to   those   of  India,    but far  inferior in fineness and
 taste of workmanship.           It seems certain that the primary
 material which is employed for the fabrication of the shawls
 of Cachemirc is also the fleece of a e,oat similar to the kara-
 gneschy.     But this flctce is much finer and more precious
 than any that is imported into Europe.                I do not even
 believe that it is known in Europe : at least, it has never
 been imported by way of Aleppo, or the other cities of the
 East.
                         The Tistik--Gut-Scliy.
     The tistik-gumchy,     or* woolly goat, forms the second kind
 of   those  animals which is found in Angora.             Hut, instead
 of resembling the goat of Europe as the Kara-gui:schy does,
  this breed is different in many respects.           It forms in the
 genus a decided variety, perhaps even a distinct species.
 The tistik-gueschy is the goat which Buflbn has described
  under the name of the Goat of Angora.                Its fleece is of a
  clear whiteness.      Its hair is long, thin, silky, naturally
  curled : it is extremely fine, and unlike the hair of the kara-
  gueschy, which is as hard as its skin ; it is as supple and
  delicate as the finest wool of the Spanish Merinos. These
  long and curled hairs compose the whole fleece of tl e
                                                                  tistik

                      On the Goats qfdngora.                     99
  tistik-gueschy, which is as fine at the top as at the roots,
 and    which are not mixed near the skin with any other soft
 wool or down.        This wool or down of which we speak
 belongs exclusively to the kara-gucschy breed, and is en
 tirely a stranger to the real goat of Angora.
     This difference alone furnishes an obvious mark of di
 stinction between the two breeds. There are, besides, many
 others, of which one is, that the kara-gueschy multiplies
 its species throughout all the East, while the tistik-gueschy
 is confined to the soil of Angora.        It is found only in this
 city, or its environs to the distance of 15 leagues.          At a
 greater distance the race is bastardized ; the wool becomes
 coarser, and the value of the animal is much inferior to that
 which constitutes the riches of the city from which it takes
 its name.
     The territory of Angora is composed of mountains a little
 elevated, on which the snow generally lies for two months
 of the year, and which afford numerous springs of fresh and
 wholesome water.       The rivulets which are thus formed fer
 tilize the soil, which is coveied with pasture grass. As
 soon as the cold has abated they conduct the tistik-gueschy
 to these mountains, where they pass the mild season, chan
 ging their pasturage in rotation every day, and continually
 exposed to the air. It is only on the winter nights that they
 are allowed houseing in sheepfolds.                       %
     The goats of Angora graze in herds of from two hundred
 to eight hundred in auinber : the females and bucks mixed
 indiscriminately.     The latter are higher and stronger than
 the former; their hair is like theirs, white and curled, but
 not so fine.     The flesh of the tistik-gueschy is better than
 that of the ordinary goat.    It is killed for consumption after
 five years of age ; for at this age the hair becomes coarser,
 and the fleece is less esteemed.
     The tistik-gueschy is shorn yearly, after being bathed in
 running water. Their hair is clipped with long iron scis-
 sars.     The fleece of the females, which is more esteemed
than that of the males, weighs from 350 to 400 drachms.
Their fleeces are all spun on the spot ; and it is a remark
 able fact, that the place consumes their entire product,
 without allowing any exportation.           The reason is, that it
is to this manufacture the inhabitants of Angora owe their
 subsistence, and they are jealous of preserving it.
     Nothing is more simple than the process employed at
Angora to work the wool of the tistik-gueschy.            As soon
as the animal is stript, the fleece is combed with a long iron
                               G 2                           comb,

  10O                On the Goats   of Angora.
  comb, of which the teeth are very thickly inserted. The
  hairs, when thus combed, are clear, and disengaged from all
  extraneous particles which have adhered to the body of the
  animal.
     All the inhabitants of Angora whom I have consulted
  have assured me that this is the only operation which the hair
  undergoes ; after which it is clean, and lit for being spun, —
  an operation with which women arc generally intrusted.
  They spin the fleece on a distaff like that which is used for
 cotton ; sometimes twisting a number of hairs into one
  thread; but sometimes only three and even two hairs to a
  thread. This last method of spinning produces thread so
 very fine and clear, that it is sold for twelve parats the
 drachm.      The price of the other kinds of thread diminishes
 from this value to that of two or even one parat per drachm.
     The hair of the tistik-gueschy, though thus spun, is yet
 unbleached, and goes through no operation of dyeing.            In
 this state it is sent to the loom, and made into a stuff known
 in the East by the name of the schallet of Angora.         These
 schallets, of which there is so great a consumption, are all
 of them the actual manufacture of this city.
     It is reckoned that in Angora there are more than two
 thousand looms in constant employment, and each loom
 employs from eight to fifteen workmen.           This source of
 wealth, the only one that Angora enjoys, must necessarily
 be very fruitful, since it yields not even to the destructive
 influence of that government which has turned to miserable
 villages so many cities once so flourishing.
     The schallet is made in pieces of 28 piks in length and
 2-3ds of a pik in breadth, which are sent to dyeing as they
come from the loom.         They are dyed all manner of colours
with every possible variety of shade ; but lively reds and vio
lets are most esteemed.       The schallet is much superior to
the camlet of Europe for the lightness and fineness of ita
grain, and is much higher priced.           The most common
sells at fifteen piastres the piece, the dearest at fifty.   This
Litter kind is chiefly consumed in Constantinople and in
Egypt.
    The   beauty and fineness of the tistik-gueschy    is a suffi
cient motive for the experiments that have IK-CD proposed
for breeding this animal in France;       Already some indivi
duals of the breed have been sent to Rambouillet, where
they still continue.     But hitherto the owners have not been
able to make use of their fleeces.     Perhaps the above details
may be of use for this purpose.
                                                             The

                     On tlw Goats    of Angora.                101
    The price of    the tistik-gueschy at Angora is from 10 to
12    piastres  for the females, and from 12 to 15 for the
males. We might easily obtain a little flock.        The journey
to Aleppo would take from 20 to 24 days in the fair season.
From Aleppo it would be proper to send the herd to Lat-
takrch, and from thence to Cyprus, where vessels for France
are always to be found.
    It would be necessary for the success of this experiment
to make some peasants of the country accompany the flock.
They are to be hired at Angora.            Their payment, which
however it is difficult to calculate exactly, will be altogether
more than a thousand piastres per annum.
    After having showed the facility of an experiment which
might eventually propagate in France a precious breed of
animals, and which is not to be found in Europe, it re
mains to obviate an objection which will undoubtedly be
advanced, but which it is of consequence not to leave ac
credited.
    We have seen above, that it is to the salubrity of the wa
ters and the nature of the soil of Angora that the people of
this country attribute the fineness of this animal's fleece.
In fact, at the distance of more than 15 leagues from An
gora this race is not to be found, either on the side of Er-
zerone or in the other parts of Natolia. The very animals
which are sent there degenerate.        It might seem, therefore,
that it would be impossible to preserve the breed in France.
But it is easy to answer this by a recent example, and one
actually well known in France : I mean the Merinos of
Spain.       Who can doubt that suitable care and attention
would produce on the goats of Angora the same effect that
they have produced on this precious race of animals ?
    In fact, the same prejudices which prevail at Angora ex
isted and still continue in Spain.        The proprietors and the
majoros     di domos  are  all  persuaded that the pure race of
the Merinos belongs exclusively to their soil.       They are as
sured, besides, that the purity of the breed is owing to the
continual Journeys which their flocks make from the moun
tains of Leon to those of Andalusia.            From this conceit
 arises the facility with which they allow the breed to be
 imported for propagation into France.           This opinion ap
 pears also to be verified in the places themselves ; for the
Merinos which settle at Segovia, known by the name of
piarras, degenerate from the first year, aud their wool loses
 there in value from 20 to 25 per cent.
     But the consequence drawn from this fact against the
                                G  3                    possibility

102        Description    of a Machine for       Shoemakers.
possibility of preserving the breed pure in France is abso
lutely false; for who does not know that the flock of Ram-
bouillet is equal in beauty of fleece, and superior in size and
strength, to the finest specimens from the Spanish ca-
cannos ?
XXI.   Description of a Machine by which. all the Thread- work
   in Shoe-making may be done in a. standing Posture.      By
   Mr. Thomas Holden, of Fettleworth, near Petworth,
   in   Sussex      *.
   From the sitting posture used in my employment, as a
shoemaker, I suffered so much in my health, and from the
piles, that I thought I must either give up my business or
lose my life.     In this difficulty I invented this machine, got
it made, and went to work with it. I found it answer to
my satisfaction, and its use followed by a restoration of my
health.    I believe I have made eighteen hundred or two
thousand pair of shoes with             it,
                                        and still work on.    re    I
commend        as the quickest way of closing all the thread-
                it
work.
   "  My machine        fixed to the floor,
                         is                    little to the left of
                                                  a
the seat, but within reach of the hand the work     ;          held is
on with    astirrup, and   suits to the place."
   Certificates from John Summersell, cordwainer, and
overseer of the parish      Richard Hawkins, John Tilly, and
                              ;
George    Hawkins,    Thomas     Tilly, and Edward Hawkins,
cordwaincrs, confirmed the above statement           as well as the
                                                        ;
following letter fr<5m Mr. Peter Martin, surgeon, at Tul-
borough
   " am sincerely of opinion, that Thomas Holden's
           :
      I                                                                  in
vention    is desirable acquisition to men of that profession,
                a
especially to those who may be diseased internally, or who
may suffer from stomach weakness and indigestion,            These
diseases may be aggravated,           not occasioned,
                                       if                         by
                                                               their
working in bent posture.
                 a
   " The inventor, about twenty years ago, often applied
to me for relief from      train of bowel complaints, and fre
                              a
quently had occasion to take the medicines usually em
ployed for the relief of dyspepsia.
  * From the Transactions of the Society of Arts, &c. vol. xxii. who awarded
to Mr. Holden    bounty of iiftecn guineas (or this invention,
                 a
                                                                   « I   rc-

              Description     of a Machine fur          Shoe.makers.         103
     "
     I repeatedly informed him, that his employment was
the cause of his disorder, and desired him to relinquish                      it,
or invent some method to do his work standing.          This
bint, and his corporeal sufferings, prompted him to the
invention.    That    answers the purpose,
                         it                   have reason to    I
helieve, as he and ohers use it. He      now free from com
                                                       is
plaints, and so improved in his corpulence and countenance,
that he    not like the same man, and for years has had no
              is
occasion for medicine."
                                   See   Plate   IV.        <
     A,
      the bed for the closing-block,                   and to lay the shoe    in,
whilst sewing.
  B, the closing-block.
    C, loose bed.to lay the shoe in whilst stitching; the
          a
 lower part of which          here exhibited reversed, to show how
                              is
it   isplaced   in  the other   bed A.
    D, the hollow or upper part of the loose bed C, in which
 the shoe       laid whilst stitching.
               is
    E, table on which the tools wanted are to be laid.
          a
     F,  an iron semi-circle, fixed to each end of the bed A,
 to allow the bed to be raised or depressed.         This half circle
.moves    in  the block G.
    H, another iron semi-circle, with notches, which catch
  upon    atooth in the centre of the block, to hold the bed in
  any angle required.         This semi-circle moves sidewise on
  two hooks in staples at each end of the bed. .
     I,  the tail or stem of the bed A, moving in         cylindrical
                                                                    a
  hole in the pillar, enabling the bed to be turned in any re
  quired direction, and which, with the movement              enables   F,
  the operator to place the shoe in. any position necessary.
     K, the pillar, formed like the pillar of claw table, ex    a
  cepting the two side legs being in            direct line, and the
                                                       a
  other leg at      right angle with them.
                    a
     L, the semi-circle H, shown separately, to explain how
it   is connected with the staples, and how the notches are
  formed.
     M, the tail or stem of the bed A, and the lower part of
  the bed N, shown separately,           to explain how the upper
  part of the bed        raised or depressed occasionally.
                        is
                                         G 4                            XXII. An

                              C   104    ]
          XXII. An Essay on       Commercial Policy.      By
                   J. B. GALTJ     Esq. London*.
  Jc REEDOM of execution is        so essential to mercantile spe
   culations, that every legislative interference which would
  limit their objects, or control the modes of their accom
  plishment, is of greater injury and wider consequence than
  is generally imagined.       The famous reply, " Leave us to
  ourselves, "-which ihe French merchants made to the mi
  nister who was desirous of promoting their prosperity, ha*
  been often quoted for its wisdom : but though sufficient
  data be presented in the history of all commercial countries,
  and particularly in the history of our own, to demonstrate
  the value of liberty to trade, no regular attempt has yet
  been made to place the subject in a clear and distinct
  light. To exhibit such a demonstration, it would be neces
 sary, in the first place, to consider the natural tendency of
 commerce ; and, in the second, how far it should be re
 strained by political circumstances.         Were this done, and
 a series of facts, linked to certain special laws, produced,
 the pernicious effects of governments attempting to regu
 late the objects of trade would be evident, and a degree of
 certainty on that point of political ceconomy, proportioned
 to the evidence, would be obtained only inferior to mathe
 matical truth.     For all special acts of authority relative to
 trade are boons granted either to individuals, or corpora
 tions, or provinces.
     The nature of trade has a tendency to blend the interests
 of mankind together, and to disseminate throughout the
whole species a principle of mutual dependence.               If one
 might imagine      the  world   in  such   a Utopian  condition   as
would     allow commerce     to  diffuse   itself without being   af
fected by political events ; if the world were raised to a state
which would require no part of human industry to be appro
priated to the purposes of governments, nor of its popula
tion to be employed in war ; mankind, at liberty to cultivate
in safety the varieties of trade, would divide themselves into
companies, by which an approximation would be induced
towards a communion of goods, and society would assume
a form of which a faint epitome may sometimes be traced -
in the communities of factories and colonies ; — with this
difference, however, that neither the calamities of war nor
the struggles of faction interfering to divert the merchant
                    •
                      Communicated by the Author.
                                                               from

               An Essay    on Commercial   Policy.             105
from his speculations, the artist from his profession, or the
manufacturer from his industry, a more certain and even
result might be expected from the infinite sources of com
merce. It is evident that the heaviest oppression on trade
is occasioned by state necessities : the armies, and the reve
nue requisite to support wars and the paraphernalia of na
tions, are obtained at the expense of its capital and the most
efficient instruments of labour. But this expense, great as
it is directly, is often increased indirectly by those regula
tions which governments have promulgated for rendering
commercial enterprises subservient to political purposes.
Experience has proved that commerce furnishes the most
powerful engine of war, and statesmen respect trade only
for the aids which it yields in war: it is always with a re
ference to war that it receives the encouragement of states
men.     The view, for instance, with which the British go
vernment has so assiduously encouraged the fisheries, had
certainly for its object the rearing of seamen for the navy,
as much as the local improvement of the districts conti
guous to the fishing stations.      The navigation act, while it
has tended to increase the number of ships and sailors, and
thereby promoted the naval superiority of Great Britain,
has been perhaps detrimental to the extension of her trade
in general by occupying so much capital in the value of
ships of war, and so many men in marine labour.           But the
navigation    act being one  of those regulations of trade  which
arise out of political interests, it leads us to consider the
 second thing proposed, namely, how far such regulations
 or restrictions ought to extend ; in the consideration of
 which it mav be as well to advert to what ought to be the
 commercial policy of Great Britain.
    The political respectability of Great Britain demands, as
essential to her preponderancy, the preservation, perhaps
 the extension, of her naval superiority.      Therefore the at
 tention of government should be directed to foster those
 branches of trade that will employ or increase her shipping,
 and at the same time encourage her manufactures.          To ac
 complish this, British commerce must be confined to British
 ships, and all the articles of Britsh trade permitted to pass
 wherever the merchant conceives a likelihood of obtaining
 profit.   We must even shake off that antiquated prejudice
 which still makes a distinction between agriculture and
 trade, and consider agriculture as only one of the many
 divisions of trade ; we must cease to believe that corn more
 than any other commodity requires a particular system of
 laws ; and if we can import our corn cheaper than it can be
                                                            raised

  106           An Essay    on Commercial   Policy.
 raised at home, we must cease to think that a free importa
 tion of corn can be detrimental to our national prosperity.
 I admit, unquestionably, that a free importation of corn
 would probably affect the rent-rolls of the landholders;
 but is there any one who will assert that a reduction of
  rents produced by such a cause would be a misfortune to
 the kingdom?       If the income of the landholders can only
 be supported at its present rate by restrictions on the com
 trade, it is suiely evident that the landholders are benefited
 at the expense of the nation.     But granting that the laud-
 holders were injured by removing the restraints of the corn
 laws, it is hisrhly probable that their misfortune would ul
 timately become advantageous to themselves ; for, to pre
 serve their hereditary importance they might be induced to
engage in trade, and with their visible capiial would possess
 an obvious superiority over those who are dependent on in
dustry and enterprise.      The fertile tracts of America pre
 sent the great resource from which the British empire should
be supplied with grain.       By limiting the supplies which
the colonies and the united kingdom might draw from
America to the importations of British vessels, the quantity
of British shipping would necessarily augment ; and the
Americans, thus finding an advantage in attending more
to agriculture, would resign navigation, and, gradually relin
quishing that power upon the seas which they are as gra
dually obtaining, leave us the mastery which we still pos
sess.    It may perhaps be said, that such a restriction as is
here proposed might force the Americans to countervail us,
by refusing to ship their produce in British vessels.        But
this is an evil that time would rectify; for we are yet suffi
ciently independent of American produce to wait patiently
the operation of the measure.     In the present state of Ame
rica, it cannot be doubted that agriculture more than com
merce ought to engage the inhabitants; so that the very
restrictions which would come in to the aid of our advan
tage, would also be beneficial to them.
    There is another point that should be considered here.
It ought to be part of the commercial policy of Great
Britain to afford every accommodation to the British mer
chant for trading with foreign colonies, and to prevent
foreign merchants from trading with the British colo
nies. By attending to the former we may obtain the latter :
for, as part of our policy is to increase our shipping, we
should, by giving occupation to foreigners in their own
countries, take away their desire to become navigators by
removing the necessity. Thus the nature of British restric
                                                           tions

                An Essay   on Commercial   Policy.           i07
tions on trade outrht to extend no further than so to press
against the commercial systems of other countries as to give
them a bias opposite to our own. When more is attempted,
the consequences will revert upon ourselves in losses which
can neither be calculated nor by any after lenity remedied.
But a few facts will more clearly illustrate this truth than
any general reasoning, especially if a series can be produced
that obviously originated in an act of government. Let us,
however, previously consider some of those instances of the
 folly of partial restrictions on trade, of which the conse
quences have not been distinctly ascertained, and of which
the records are more imperfect.
    During a long period the principal trade of Scotland was
 its fisheries ; and the acts of the Scottish legislature, com
mencing with the reign of the first James of that kingdom,
 exhibit the unremitted attention which the fisheries received
 from the government.        It would be inconsistent with the
 limits of an essay to trace here the various effects produced
 by the different laws which were deemed essential to the
 improvement of the fisheries : but it is not foreign to the
 purpose to call the attention of the reader to some of those
 steps by which the Scottish nation advanced towards that
 great commercial enterprise the Darien expedition.
     From 1424, in which a tax was imprudently levied on
 the exportation of herrings, till 1493, the Scots appear to
 have regularlv, and with different degrees of success, pro
 secuted their fisheries.   In the year 1493, the naval spirit
 of that adventurous prince James IV. prompted him to
 undertake a variety of plans to raise seamen for the navy
 which he was then building ; and, among others, to obtain
 an act perhaps the most extraordinary in its provisions that
 ever passed the legislature of any state.   Although the 49th
 cap. of James IV. did not, and indeed could not, produce
  such a sudden increase of mariners as his impatient genius
  demanded for its projects, it must be regarded as one of
  th6se bold interpositions of authority that generate a suc
  cessive train of consequences, and become epochs in the
  history of the affairs to which they relate.     By it the bo
  roughs and towns were commanded to build busses and
 vessels for the fisheries, and to send all idle persons on
  board. How far this preposterous law was carried into exe
  cution is not our present business to examine; it is how
 ever well known, that in the reign of James IV., animated
 by his example and influence, the Scots had reached a high
  degree of maritime power.       We may therefore, without
 adverting to what may have been done before, presume to
                                                              say

 108            An Essay    on Commercial    Policy.
 say that from this period a foundation was laid for a nursery
 of  seamen in Scotland, and that, though no other record
 remained, the laws of the subsequent reigns would prove
  that the fisheries continued to engage the attention of the
  trading community.      Undoubtedly they would be affected
  by the tumults of the reformation and of the civil wars, but
  perhaps not to the extent which is generally imagined. For
  people habitually disposed to industry do not readily enter
 into political contentions, particularly if their industry be
 maritime ; and the fact    is, that both the reformation and
 the civil wars were managed      by  the chieftains and their ad
 herents. The boroughs and towns would, no doubt, take
 an interest in the procession of events during those two tu
 multuous periods, but not to sueh     a    degree as the factious
 chieftains and their predatory clans were incited.         There
 fore, when we consider the various laws which were passed
 in the reign of Charles II. for the encouragement of the
 Scottish fisheries, we must regard them as directed to their
 revival, and not their establishment.         And when we pass
along    the intervening   events  till  the  year 1694, in which
 the Daricn expedition was projected, we can easily under
stand that there must have been then in Scotland       a   number
of seamen who would be the first to embark in an enter
prise that promised so fairly an unprecedented reward of
affluence. The judgment with which that expedition was
planned, and the spirit with which     it    was executed, reflects
as much honour upon the Scottish nation as the policy                by
which  it  was undermined disgraces the disposition and reigu
of William III. The English and Dutch East India com
panies, foreseeing the effects of the advantageous situation
which the Scots had selected, influenced William to coun
teract the expedition ;  and private partialities, and an iajno-
rance of the true interests of trade, induced him to destroy
a   colony that by careful fostering would have extended the
commerce of his kingdoms. The consequence of William-^
policy did not terminate in the ruins of the Darien colony           ;
the mariners who sailed with the expedition were for ever
lost to the country. The fisheries were for many years after
of no importance, and the Dutch in the interval obtained
an insurmountable preference for their herrings in the mar
kets of Europe.     A reduction in the amount of the fisheries
vas not the only evil the proper knowledge of the trade
                       ;
became almost extinguished, and for nearly      a    century since
has the British legislature been annually occupied with
schemes and projects to restore that knowledge.            It   is
                                                                 as
well known as any historical truth whatevet, that prior to
                                                               the

                  An Essay    on Commercial    Policy.            109
 the   Darien     expedition the Scottish fishers practised the
 deep-sea herring-fishery, which the Dutch have so long so
 successfully followed ; and it is equally well known to every
 one who has at all attended to the subject, that such has
 been the total ignorance of that method of fishing among
 the Scots, that up to the last year not one vessel was fitted
 out from any port in Scotland for many years before. It
  is, however, with. no small degree of satisfaction, that           I
  have it in my power to be the first to record that several
 vessels are this year equipped for that purpose from the
  Clyde.     But the diminution of the trade, and the loss of
  the requisite knowledge, did not close the effects of Wil
 liam's interference with the Darien expedition ; the revenue
 of the kingdom is burthened with heavy bounties, that can
 only be described as the means of prolonging the precarious
 loch fishery ; and large sums are annually voted to force
 upon the inhabitants of the Highlands of Scotland that in
 dustry and civilization which would probably have gradu
 ally arisen from the extensive commerce that would have
 flowed in upon the mother country from the Darien colony.
     Independent of the pecuniary consequences of impolitic
 restrictions on trade, they are often the cause of political
 evils also. The American war, and all that has resulted
 from the consblidation of the United States, will be found
 to have originated in those severe limitations with which
 the trade of the colonies was harnessed to forward the pro
 sperity of the mother country, although the separation of
 the colonies has been ascribed to the financial schemes of
 the British ministry.      The spirit, as well as the letter, of the
 navigation     law  was   enforced upon the colonies with a de
 gree   of  rigour altogether    obnoxious  to the free genius of
 trade.    The colonics were compelled to send their produce
 to Great Britain in vessels belonging to British subjects,
 and from Great Britain the rest of the world was supplied
with Anglo-American produce. By this restriction the co
 lonics were obliged to furnish themselves from British mar
kets with the necessaries or luxuries that they required,
which being of greater value than their produce, in time
accumulated a debt against them to so great an amount,
that to be released from it formed the reason, and the tax-
bills furnished the pretext, for throwing off the yoke of the
mother country.        Had the British government, instead of
expecting to draw from the colonies a direct revenue, made
such political arrangements as would have allowed them td
trade immediately with the states of Europe, we should not
now have been consoling ourselves with the absurd asser
                                                                tion,

  110          An Essay     on Commercial   Policy.
 lion, that the loss of thirteen provinces was a benefit to the
 empire.    Had the colonies been permitted to trade imme
diately with the states of Europe, a flow of wealth would
have reverted to them that ultimately would have assisted
the mother country, who, instead of holding her sove?
reignty over them by the slender tie of opinion, might have
supported, by judicious internal taxation, such a formida
ble military force in America as would have prevented the
division of the empire, and in periods of necessity would
have abetted her cause with the greatest effect.      But from
these general speculations let us turn to the consideration
of facts; and, to show that the mercantile machine of our
own country is not the only one that has been deranged by
the impolitic hands of statesmen, I am induced to quote an
instance from the affairs of Russia that is most distinct and
unquestionable.
    The proprietors of the iron mines of Russia, about the
year 1798, took it into their heads that the immense forests
of that vast country were diminishing so rapidly, that un
less the exportation of timber were prohibited a scarcity of
wood must ensue ; and they infected the government with
the same notion ; in consequence of which the exportation
of timber was partially prohibited.         The British vessels
could not, as formerly, obtain deals to make up their car
goes ; they were therefore obliged to take a larger quantity
of iron, the price of which was raised so high that it could
not be sold fur an adequate profit in the British markets ;
and, as the quantity or. Russian iron consumed by Great
Britain had been annually decreasing for several years be
fore, the prohibition hastened the diminution.      In the year
  1781 Great  Britain alone   imported from  Petershurgh nearly
50,000 tons of iron ; in 1804 the quantity was under 6000.
Upon an equality with this measure of the Russian govern
ment may be placed that law of ours, which was passed in
1747, to prevent the insurance of French vessels, or their
cargoes, in this country during the war with France; in
Consequence of which regular offices of insurance were esta
blished at Paris and in the principal ports of France ; and
when peace was restored between the two countries, the
French had found the way so readily to their own insurance
offices, that we never after regained that part of their com
mercial profit which we formerly received in premiums.
But not to spend too much time in quoting detached in
stances of the folly of limiting the modes and objects of
trade, I will endeavour to show that the country gentlemen
of F.ngland, by a narrow-minded jealousy of the progress
                                                         -which

                 An Essay   on Commercial   Policy. .        111
which the Irish had made in agriculture and farming, to
wards the close of the 1 7th century, have abridged, beyond
the possibility of remedy, the staple of England, her woollen
manufactures.        In the reign of Charles II., conceiving the
produce of their estates considerably reduced in value by the
free importation of cattle and grain from Ireland, they suc
ceeded iu setting aside the general interest of the country
by obtaining a law to prohibit the importation of such
commodities.        The Irish, being thus prevented from im
porting into England, were obliged to salt what they could
not find consumption for at home, and export it to other
countries for a market; by which that great branch of Irish
trade, the exportation of salted provisions, was established.
 It was long, however, before a sufficient foreign consump
tion could be obtained, so that their sheep were allowed to
 increase for the sake of wool alone ; by which that com
modity was rendered much cheaper in Ireland than in Eng
 land. The cheapness of wool in Ireland enabled the Irish
 to set up woollen manufactures of their own, which soon
 rivalled those of England ; so that the English merchants,
 finding themselves equalled by the Irish, brought down
 another misfortune upon the general interests of the coun
  try.    In 1 6go an act was passed to prohibit the exportation
 of woollen manufactures from Ireland to any place except
 to England and Wales; even to England and Wales the
 exportation was so unmercifully restricted that this was an
  indulgence in words only : the consequence was, that many
 of the Irish manufacturers were obliged to seek employ
 ment in foreign countries ; and the greater number went to
  France : by them the woollen manufactures of that king
 dom were established, and by their connection a clandes
  tine exportation of wool from Ireland was carried on ; so
  that the French soon made sufficient cloth for themselves,
  and became our rivals in foreign markets.
     It is therefore evident, both from the nature of the thing,
 and the variety and number of instances which might be
  given, tli.it freedom is not more essential to commerce than
  immediate legislative interference is pernicious.     Mankind
  are always regulated in their undertakings by the character
  of existing circumstances; and the objects of trade vary
  with political occurrences, which, generally originating from
  causes the most obscure, are placed beyond the control of
  preconcerted schemes, and frequently exhibit the reverse
  of their prospective estimate. Hence it is that laws foundde
  on particular incidents, and intended to promote temporary
                                                         purposes

 112                 Decomposition         of Muriate of Tin.
 purposes  or private emolument, must in their operation
 produce  results different from what are previously supposed,
 and will become the seeds of events of incalculable extent
 and influence.
XXIII.   Muriatic Solution of Tin in part decomposed into
       metallic crystallized Tin. By M. BUCHOLZ*.
 AT is some time ago since, in the view of preparing the
 muriate of tin, I treated seven pounds of the finest English
                                    f
 tin with fifteen pounds of muriatic acid weighing 1-120.
 At the approach of night there still remained from 2 to 2-J-
 pounds of tin undissolved.        The next day the matter was
     luke-warm, and the liquid had the consistency of syrup.
 ?etpoured gently above          pound of water
                                  it   a             which swamJ,
upon    the solution.    At  the  end of an   hour,  while    exa         I
mined the mixture,        observed with astonishment that the
                              I
Undissolved tin, and particularly its running particles, were
covered with      quantity of lances, needles, blades, &c, of
                      a
metallic crystallized tin, in length from      quarter of an inch
                                                           a
to half an inch.
    M. Bucholz, having some time after repeated the opera
tion, had the satisfaction to see the same appearance again
produced.      He assured himself,       all possible trials, that
                                                      by
the tin he had employed was absolutely pure.          The author
proposes different explanations of this phenomenon, which
he believes always will be found                     In
                                       opposition to the rules
of the dynamic doctrine of Kant on the perfect equilibrium
of all parts of composition, or the perfect equilibrium
                          a
of principles      the composition.
                     in               This theory       however,    is,
every moment in contradiction with experience, inasmuch
asit  does not take into consideration the determinative force
of decided composition, of which the authors have under
  a
stood as little as of chemistry in general.
   We shall not report the different explanations of M. Bu-»
cholz, none of which has appeared to us satisfactory*
            • From       fan Mont-s Journal, vol. vi.
                In   a former notice the author says sixteen.
         t -f
                In   the former anaonce    it called two pound*.
                                                is
                                                                    XXIV.     On

                             [  113   ]
 XXIV.     On muscular Motion. By Anthonv Carlisle,
    Esq. F.R.S.:     being the Croonian Lecture.   Read before
    the Royal Society November 8, 1804.
 Animal physiology has derived several illustrations and
 additions from the institution of this lecture on muscular
motion, and the details of anatomical knowledge have been
 considerably augmented by descriptions of muscular parts
 before unknown.
    Still, however, many of the phaenomena of muscles re
main unexplained, nor is it to be expected that any sudden
insulated discovery shall solve such a variety of complicated
appearances.
    Muscular motion is the first sensible operation of animal
life : the various combinations of it sustain and carry on
the multiplied functions of the largest animals : the tem
 porary cessation of this motive faculty is the suspension of
 the living powers, its total quiescence is death.
    By the continuance of patient, well-directed researches,
it is reasonable to expect much important evidence on this
subject ; and, from the improved state of collateral branches
 of knowledge, together with the addition of new sources
and methods of investigation, it may not be unreasonable
to hope for an ultimate solution of these phaenomena, no
less complete and consistent than that of any other deside
ratum in physical science.
    The present attempt to forward such designs is limited
to circumstances which are connected with muscular mo
tion, considered as causes, or rather as a series of events,
all of which contribute, more or less, as conveniencies or
essential requisites to the phaenomena ; the details of mus
cular applications being distinct from the objects of this
lecture.
    No satisfactory explanation has yet been given of the
state or changes which obtain in muscles during their con
tractions or relaxations; neither are their corresponding con
nections with the vascular, respiratory, and nervous systems
sufficiently traced.    These subjects are therefore open for
the present inquiry; and although I may totally fail in this
attempt to elucidate any one of the subjects proposed, ne
vertheless I shaH not esteem my labour useless, or the time
of the Royal Society altogether unprofitably consumed, if
I  succeed in pointing out the way to the future attainment
of knowledge so deeply interesting to mankind.
    The muscular parts of animals are most frequently com-
Vol. 23. No. 90. Nov. 1805.          H                   posed

 114                       On muscular Motion.
posed    of many substances, in addition to those which are
purely muscular. In this gross state they constitute a flexi
ble, compressible solid, whose texture is generally fibrous,
the fibres being compacted into fasciculi, or bundles, of va
rious thickness.         These fibres are elastic during the con
tracted state of muscles after death, being capable of exten
sion to more than one-fifth of their length, and of return
ing again to their former state of contraction.
     This elasticity, however, appears to belong to the enve
loping reticular or cellular membrane, and it may be safely
assumed that the intrinsic matter of muscle is not elastic.
     The attraction of cohesion, in the parts of muscle, is
strongest in the direction of the fibres, it being double that
of the contrary, or transverse, direction.
     When muscles are capable of reiterated contractions and
relaxations, they are said to be alive, or to possess irritabi
lity. This quality fits the organ for its functions.                 Irrita
bility   will be   considered,    throughout      the present  lecture,   as
a quality only.
     When muscles have ceased to be irritable, their cohesive
 attraction in the direction of their fibres is diminished, but
 it remains unaltered in the transverse direction.
     The hinder limbs of a frog attached to the pelvis being
 stripped of the skin, one of them was immersed in water,
 at 115° of Fahrenheit, during two minutes ; when it ceased
 to be irritable.     The thigh bones were broken in the mid
 dle, without injuring the muscles, and a scale affixed to the
 ancle of each limb : a tape passed between the thighs was
 employed to suspend the apparatus. Weights were gra
 dually introduced into each scale, until, with five pounds
 avoirdupois, the dead thigh was ruptured across the fleshy
 bellies of its muscles.
     The irritable thigh sustained six pounds weight avoirdu
 pois, and was ruptured in the same manner. This experi
 ment was repeated on other frogs, where one limb had been
  killed by a watery solution of opium, and on another where
 essential oil of cherry laurel* was employed : in each expe
  riment the irritable limb sustained a weight one-sixth hea
 vier than the dead limb.
      It may be remarked, in confirmation of these experi
 ments, that when muscles act more powerfully or more ra
  pidly than is equal to the strength of the sustaining parts,
  they do not usually rupture their fleshy fibres, but break
 their tendons, or even an intervening bone, as in the in-
          * Distilled oil from the leaves of the
                                                 pnamt {ouro-cmuiu.
                                                                    stances

                    On muscular Motion.                    115
stances   of ruptured tendo achillis, and fractured patella.
 Instances have, however, occurred, wherein the fleshy bel
lies of muscles have been lacerated by spasmodic actions ;
as in tetanus the recti abdominis have been torn asunder,
and the gastrocnemii in cramps; but in those examples it
seems that either the antagonists produce the effect, or the
over-excited parts tear the less excited in the same muscle.
From whence it may be inferred, that the attraction of co
hesion in the matter of muscle is considerably greater during
the act of contracting, than during the passive state of tone,
or irritable quiescence; a fact which has been always as
sumed by anatomists from the determinate forces which
muscles exert.
   The muscular parts of different classes of animals vary in
colour and texture, and not unfrequently those variations
occur in the same individual.
   The muscles of fishes and vermes are often colourless,
those of the mammalia and birds being always red : the
amphibia, the accipenser, and squalus genera, have fre
quently ,both red and colourless muscles in the same animal.
   Some birds, as the black game *, have the external pec
toral muscles of a deep red colour, whilst the internal are
pale.
   In texture, the fasciculi vary in thickness ; and the reti
cular membrane is in some parts coarse, and in others de
licate : the heart is always compacted together by a delicate
reticular membrane, and the external glutaei by a coarser
species.
   An example of the origin of muscle is presented in the
historyof the incubated egg; but whether the rudiments
of the punctum   saliens be part of the cicatricula organized
by the parent, or a structure resulting from the first process
of incubation, may be doubtful : the little evidence to be
obtained on this point seems in favour of the former opi
nion ; a regular confirmation of which would improve the
knowledge of animal generation by showing that it is gem
miferous.   There are sufficient analogies of this kind in
nature, if reasoning from analogies were proper for the
present occasion.
   The punctum saliens, during its first actions, is not en
compassed   by any fibres discoverable with microscopes,
and the vascular system is not then evolved, the blood
flowing forwards and backwards, in the same vessels.      The
commencement of life in animals of complex structure       is,
                      *
                          Tetrao tetrix.   Lion.
                               H  t                     from

   116                  On muscular Motion-
  horn the preceding fact, like the ultimate organization of
  the simpler classes.
      It is obvious that the muscles of birds are formed out of
  the albumen ovi, the vitellus, and the atmospheric air, acted
  upon by a certain temperature. The albumen of a bird-s
  egg is wholly consumed during incubation, and the vitellus
  little diminished, proving that the albumen contains the
  principal elementary materials of the animal thus generated;
  and it follows that the muscular parts, which constitute
  the greater proportion of such animals when hatched, are
  made out of the albumen, a small portion of the vitellus,
  and certain elements, or small quantities of the whole com
  pound of the atmosphere.
      The muscles of birds are not different, in any respect,
  from those of quadrupeds of the class of mammalia.
      The anatomical structure of muscular fibres is generally
  complex, as those fibres are connected with membrane,
  blood-vessels, nerves, and lymphaeducts; which seem to
  be only appendages of convenience to the essential matter
  of muscle.
      A muscular fibre, duly prepared by washing away the
  adhering extraneous substances, and exposed to view in a
  powerful microscope, is undoubtedly a solid cylinder, the
  covering of which is reticular membrane, and the contained
  part a pulpy substance irregularly granulated, and of little
  cohesive power when dead.
      A difficulty has often subsisted among anatomists, con
  cerning the ultimate fibres of muscles ; and, because of their
  tenuity, some persons have considered them infinitely di
 visible ; a position which may be contradicted at any time
 by an hour-s labour at the microscope.
      The arteries arboresce copiously upon the reticular coat
  of the muscular fibre, and in warm-blooded annuals these
 vessels are of sufficient capacity to admit the red particles
  of blood ; but the intrinsic matter of muscle, contained
  within the ultimate cylinder, has no red particles.
      The arteries of muscles anastomose with corresponding
  veins ; but this course of a continuous canal cannot be sup-
. posed to act in a direct manner upon the matter of muscle.
      The capillary arteries terminating in the muscular fibre
  must alone effect all the changes of increase in the bulk or
  number of fibres, in the replenishment of exhausted mate-
  rials, and in the repair of injuries: some of these necessities
 may be supposed to be continually operating.          It is well
  known that the circulation of the blood is not essential to
  muscular action ; so that the mode of distribution of the
                                                          blood-

                      On muscular Motion .                      117
blood-vessels, and the differences in their size, or number,
as applied to muscles, can only be adaptations to some spe.
cial convenience.
   Another prevalent opinion among anatomists          is, the in
finite extension of vascularity, which      is  contradicted in   a
direct manner    by comparative researches. The several parts
of quadruped are sensibly more or less, vascular, and of
     a
different contextures     :and admitting that the varied dia
meter of the blood-vessels disposed in each species of sub
stance, were to be constituted     by the gross sensible differ
ences of their larger vessels only; yet,    if the ultimate ves
sels were in all cases equally numerous, then the sole re
maining cause of dissimilarity would be in the compacting
of the vessels. The vasa vasorum of the larger trunks fur
nish no reason, excepting that of       a loose analogy, for the
supposition     of vasa vasorum extended without limits.
Moreover, as the circulating fluids of all animals are com
posed of water, which gives them fluidity, and of animal-
ized particles of defined configuration and bulk   ;   it follows,
that the vessels through which such fluids are to pass must
be of sufficient capacity for the size of the particles, and
that smaller vessels could only filtrate water devoid of such
animal particles :    a position repugnant to all the known
facts of the circulation of blood, and the animal ceconomy.
    The capillary arteries, which terminate in the muscular
fibre, must be secretory vessels for depositing the muscular
matter, the lymphaducts serving to remove the superfluous
 extravasated watery fluids, and the decayed substances which
are unfit for use.
    The lymphaeducts are not so numerous as the blood-ves
sels, and certainly do not extend to every muscular fibre          :
they appear to receive their contained fluids from the in-
 tcrsticial spaces formed     by the reticular or cellular mem
brane, and not from the projecting open ends of tubes, as
is  generally represented.     This mode of receiving fluids out
of cellular structure, and conveying them into cylindrical
     a
vessels,  is
             exemplified in the corpora cavernosa and corpus
spongiosum pems, where arterial blood        is  poured into cel
 lular or reticular cavities, and from thence     it   passes into
 common veins        bythe gradual coarctation of the cellular
 canals.
     In the common green turtle, the lacteal vessels univer
 sally arise from the loose cellular membrane, situated be
 tween the internal spongy coat of the intestines and the
muscular coat. The cellular structure may be filled from
 the lacteals, or the lacteals from the cellular cavities. When
                               H   3                        injecting

118                  On muscular Motion.
injecting the smaller branches of the lymphaeducts retro
grade in an cedematous human leg, I saw, very distinctly,
three orifices of these vessels terminating in the angles of
the cells, into which the quicksilver trickled. The prepara
tion is preserved, and a drawing of the appearance made at
the time.     It was also proved, by many experiments, that
neither  the  lymphaeducts nor the veins have any valves in
their minute branches.
   The nerves of voluntary muscles separate from the same
bundles of fibrils with trie nerves which are distributed in
the skin, and other parts, for sensation ; but a greater pro
portion of nerve is appropriated to the voluntary muscles
than to any other substances, the organs of the senses ex-
cepted.
   The nerves of volition all arise from the parts formed by
the junction of the two great masses of the brain, called
the cerebrum and cerelcuum, and from the extension of
that substance throughout the canal of the vertebrae.      An
other class of muscles, which are not subject to the
will, are supplied by peculiar nerves; they are much
smaller, in proportion to the bulk of the parts on which
they are distributed, than those of the voluntary. muscles;
they contain less of the white opake medullary substance
than the other nerves, and unite their fibrils, forming nu
merous anastomoses with all the other nerves of the body,
excepting those appropriated to the organs of the senses.
There are enlargements at several of these junctions, called
ganglions, and which are composed of a less proportion of
the medullary substance, and their texture is firmer thaja
that of ordinary nerves.
   The terminal extremities of nerves have been usually con
sidered of unlimited extension: by accurate dissection, how
ever, and the aid of magnifying-glasses, the extreme fibrils
of nerves are easily traced as far as their sensible properties,
and their continuity extend. The fibrils cease to be sub
divided, whilst perfectly visible to the naked eye, in the
voluntary muscles of large animals ; and the spaces they
occupy upon superficies where they seem to end, leave a
remarkable excess of parts unoccupied by those fibrils. The
extreme fibrils of nerves lose their opacity, the medullary
substance    appears soft and transparent, the enveloping
membrane becomes pellucid, and the whole fibril is desti
tute of the tenacity necessary to preserve its own distinct
ness ; it seems to be diffused and mingled with the sub
stances in which it ends.     Thus the ultimate terminations
of nerves for volition, and ordinary sensation, appear to be,
                                                              in

                     On muscular Motion.                     1 19
in the reticular membrane, the common covering of all the
different substances in an animal body, and the connecting
medium of all dissimilar parts.
   By this simple disposition, the medullary substance of
nerve is spread through all organized, sensible, or motive
parts, forming a continuity which is probably the occasion
of sympathy.      Peculiar nerves, such as the first and second
pairs, and the portio mollis of the seventh, terminate in an
expanse of medullary substance which combines with other
parts and membranes, still keeping the sensible excess of
the peculiar medullary matter.
   The peculiar substance of nerves must in time become
inefficient ; and, as it is liable to injuries, the powers of re
storation, and repair are extended to that material.         The
reunion of nerves after their division, and the reproduction
after part of a nerve has been cut. away, have been esta
blished by decisive experiments.          Whether there is any
new medullary substance employed to fill up the break ;
and, if so, whether the new substance be generated at the
part, or protruded along the nervous theca from the brain,
are points undetermined : the history of the formation of
a fcetus, the structure of certain monsters, and the organi
zation of simple animals, all seem to favour the probability
that the medullary matter of nerves is formed at the parts
where it is required, and not in the principal seat of the
cerebral medulla.
   This doctrine, clearly established, would lead to the be
lief of a very extended commixture of this peculiar matter
in all the sensible and irritable parts of animals, leaving the
nerves, in their limited distribution, the simple office of con
veying impressions from.the two sentient masses with which
their extremities are connected.       The most simple animals,
in whom no visible appearances of brain or nerves are to be
found, and no fibrous arrangement of muscles, may be con
sidered of this description : Mr. John Hunter appeared to
have had some incomplete notions upon this subject, which
may be gathered from his representation of a materia vitDB
in his Treatise on the Blood, &c. Perhaps it would be
more proper to distinguish the peculiar matter of muscle
by some specific term, such, for example, as materia con-
tractilis.
   A particular adaptation for the nerves which supply the
electrical batteries of the torpedo and and gymnotus, is ob
servable on the exit of each from the skull ; over which
there is a firm cartilage acting as a yoke, with a muscle
affixed to it, for the obvious purpose of compression      :   so
                               H
                               4                             that

120                    On muscular Motion.
that   a voluntary muscle probably governs the operations of
the battery.
    The matter of the nerves and brain is very similar in all
the different classes of animals. <
    The external configuration of animals is not more varied
than their internal structure.
    The bulk of an animal, the limitation of its existence,
the medium in which it lives, and the habits it is des
tined to pursue, are each, and all of them, so many indica
tions of the complexity or simplicity of their internal struc
ture.     It is notorious that the number of organs, and of
members, is varied in all the different classes of animals :
the vascular and nervous systems, the respiratory and di
gestive organs, the parts for procreation, and the instru
ments of motion, are severally varied, and adapted to the
condition of the species.     This modification of anatomical
structure is extended in the lowest tribes of animals until
the bpdy appears to be one, homogeneous substance. The
cavity for receiving the food is indifferently the internal or
external surface ; for they may be inverted, and still con
 tinue to digest food : the limbs, or tentacula, may be cut
 off, and they will be regenerated without apparent incon
venience to the individual : the whole animal is equally
 sensible, equally irritable, equally alive : its procreation is
 gemmiferous.        Every part is pervaded by the nutritious
luices, every part is acted upon by the respiratory influence,
 every part is equally capable of motion, and of altering its
 figure in all directions, whilst neither blood-vessels, nerves,
 nor muscular fibres are discoverable by any of the modes of
 investigation hitherto instituted.
    From this abstract animal (if s,uch a term may be ad
 mitted) up to the human frame, the variety of accessory
 parts, and of organs by which a complicated machinery is
 operated, exhibit infinite marks of design, and of accom
 modations to the purposes which fix the order of nature.
     In the more complicated animals there are parts adapted
 for trivial conveniences, much of their materials not being
 alive, and the entire offices of some liable to be dispensed
 with.      The water transfused throughout the intersticial
 spaces of the animal fabric ; the combinations with lime in
 bones, shells, and teeth; the horns, hoofs, spines, hairs,
 feathers, and cuticular coverings, are all of them, or the
 principal parts of their substance, extra-vascular, insensi
 ble, and unalterable by the animal functions after they are
 completed.      I have formed an opinion, grounded on exten
 sive observation, that many more parts of animal bodies
                                                             may

                     On muscular Motion.                       121
may be considered as inanimate substances ; even the re
ticular membrane itself seems to be of this class, and ten
dons, which may be the condensed state of it : but these
particulars are foreign to the present occasion.
    The deduction now to be made, and applied to the his
tory of muscular motion,      is,  that animated matter may be
connected with inanimate      :   this
                                     is   exemplified in the ad
hesions of     the  muscles   of multivalve    and bivalve shell
fish to the inorganic shell, the cancer Bernhardus to the
dead shells of other animals, and in the transplantation of
teeth. All of which, although somewhat contrary to re
 ceived opinion, have certainly no degree of vascularity, or
 vital connection with the inhabitant       ;  these shells being
 liable to transudations of cupreous salts and other poi
 sonous substances, whilst the animal remains uninjured.
 A variety of proofs to the same effect might be adduced,
 but it   would be disrespectful to this learned body to urge
 any further illustrations on   a  subject so obvious.
    The effects of subdivision, or comminution of parts among
 the complicated organized bodies,     is  unlike that of mineral
 bodies:   in the latter instance, the entire properties of the
 substance are retained, however extensive the subdivision        ;
 in the former substances, the comminution of parts destroys
 the essential texture and composition,     byseparating the gross
 arrangements of structure upon which their specific prp-
 perties depend.     From similar causes    itseems to arise, that
  animals of minute bulk are necessarily of simple structure      :
  size alone    not, however, the sole cause of their simple
               is
 organization, because examples are sufficiently numerous
 wherein the animal attains considerable bulk, and           is  of
 simple structure, and vice versa; but, in the former, the
 medium in which they live, and the habits they assume,
  are such as do not require extensive appendages,       whilst the
  smaller complex animals are destined to more difficult and
  more active exertions.   It   may be assumed, however, as an
  invariable position, that the minutest animals are all of
  simple organization.
     Upon small scale, life may be carried on with simple
           a
  materials but the management and provisions for bulky
              ;
  animals, with numerous limbs, and variety of organs, and
  appendages of convenience, are not effected        by simple ap
  paratus :  thus the skeleton which gives      determinate figure
                                                 a
  to the species, supports its soft parts, and admits of geo
                                                           a
  metrical motion,  is  placed interiorly, where the bulk of the
  animal admits of the bones being sufficiently strong, and
  yet light enough for the moving powers         ;but the skeleton
                                                                  is

182                     On muscular Motion.
ic placed externally, where the body is reduced below a cer
tain magnitude, or where the movements of the animal are
not to be of the floating kind ; in which last case the bulk
is not an absolute cause. The examples of testaceous vermes,
and coleopterous, as well as most othur insects, are univer
sally known.
   The opinion of the muscularity of the crystalline lens of
the eye, so ingeniously urged by a learned member of this
society, is prooably well founded ; as the arrangement of
radiating lines of the matter of muscle, from the centre to
the circumference of the lens, and these compacted into
angular masses, would produce specific alterations in its
figure.
   This rapid sketch of the history of muscular structure
has been obtruded before the Royal Society to introduce the
principal experiments and reasonings which are to follow :
they are not ordered with so much exactness as becomes a
more deliberate essay; but the intention already stated, and
the limits of a lecture, are oflered as the apology.
   Temperature has an essential influence over the actions
of muscles : but it is not necessary that the same tempera
ture should subsist in all muscles during their actions ; nei
ther is it essential that all the muscular parts of the same
animal should be of uniform temperatures for the due per
formance of the motive functions.
   It appears that all the classes of animals are endowed
with some power of producing thermometrical heat, since
it has been so established in the amphibia, pisces, vermes,
and insecta, by Mr. John Hunter; a fact which has been
verified to my own experience: the "term cold-blooded          \si
therefore only relative. The ratio of this power        is  not,
however, in these examples, sufficient to preserve their
equable temperature in cold climates   ;   so that they yield to
the changes of the atmosphere, or the medium in which
they reside, and most of them become torpid, approaching
to the degree of freezing water.      Even the mammalia and
aves possess only   a power of resisting certain limited degrees
of cold and their surfaces, as well as their limbs, being
       ;
distant from the heart and principal blood-vessels, the mus
cular parts so situated are subject to considerable variations
in their temperature, the influence of which    is  known.
   In those classes of animals which have little power of
generating heat, there are remarkable differences in the
structure of their lungs, and in the composition of their
blood, from the mammalia and aves.
   Respiration is   one of the known causes which influences
                                                             the

            New Improvements on Steam-Engines.                      123
the   temperatures   of animals: where these organs are ex
tensive, the respirations are performed at regular intervals,
and are not governed by the will, the whole mass of blood
being exposed to the atmosphere in each circulation. In all
such animals living without the tropics, their temperature
ranges above the ordinary heat of the atmosphere, their
blood contains more of the red particles than in the other
classes, and their muscular irritability ceases rcore rapidly
after violent death.
   The respirations of the animals denominated cold-blooded
are effected differently from those of high temperature ; in
some of them, as the amphibia of Linnaeus, the lungs re
ceive atmospheric air, which is arbitrarily retained in large
cells, and not alternately and frequently changed.           The
fishes, and the testaceous vermes, have lungs which expose
their blood to water ; but whether the water alone, or the
atmospheric air mingled with         furnish the changes in the
                                       it,
pulmonary blood,     is not known.
    In most of the genera of insects the lungs are arborescent
tubes containing air, which,            by
                                      these channels,     carried
                                                           is
to every vascular part of the body.      Some of the vermes of
the simpler construction have no appearance of distinct or
gans  ;  but the respiratory influence     nevertheless essential
                                             is
to their existence, and     seems to be effected on the surface
                             it
of the whole body.
    In all the colder animals the blood contains smaller  a
proportion of the red colouring particles than in the mam
malia and aves the red blood
                :                    limited to certain portions
                                       is
of the body, and many animals have none of the red par
ticles.
                             [To be continued]
XXV.      Account   of   Mr. Arthur Woolf's            new Improve
                    ments on St earn- Engines.
In    our nineteenth volume, p. 133, we gave      short account
                                                   a
of former improvement
      a                     made      Mr.
                                        byWoolf   on the steam-
engine, founded on       discovery
                         a          that steam,  of  any higher
temperature than that of boiling water,         allowed to pass
                                                  if
into another vessel kept at the same temperature as the
steam itself, will expand to as many times its volume, and
still be equal to the pressure of the common atmosphere, as
the number of pounds which such steam, before being                 al
lowed to expand, could maintain on each square inch of               a
                                                         safety-
                                                                s

  1 24       New Improvements on Steam-Engines.
  •afety-valve exposed to the atmosphere : for example, that
  masses or quantities of steam of the expansive force of 20,
  30, or 50 pounds the square inch of a common safety-valve,
 will expand to 20, 30, or 50 times its volume, and still be
 respectively equal to the atmosphere, or capable of producing
 a sufficient action against the piston of a steam-engine to
 cause the same to rise in the old engine (with a counter
 poise) of Ncwcbmen, or to be carried into the vacuous part
 of the cylinder in the improved engines first brought into
 effect by Messrs. Boultoii and Watt.
     In consequence of this discovery Mr. Woolf was enabled
 to use his steam twice (if he chose), and with complete
 effect; nothing more being necessary than to admit nigh
 steam, suppose of 40 pounds the square inch, into one cy
 linder, to work there by its expansive force, and then to
 allow the same steam to pass into, and expand itself in, an
 other cylinder of forty times the size of the first, there to
 work by condensation in the common way. Or with only
 one cylinder, by admitting a proportionally small quantity
 of high steam into it from the boiler, Mr. Woolt found
 that he could effect a considerable saving in fuel.
    In this first improvement of Mr. Woolf, though the
 saving might be carried a considerable length, it was still
 necessarily limited by the strength of materials ; for in the
employment of high steam there must always be some
danger of an explosion.     Mr. Woolf, however, by a happy
thought,   has completely  obviated  every danger of this kind,
and can now take the full advantage of the expansive prin
ciple without the least danger whatever. This he effects by
throwing into common steam the additional temperature
necessary for its high expansion, after the steam is admitted
into tlie working cylinder, which is heated by means ade
quate to the end intended to be obtained ; and the advantage
which he thus gains he effectually secures by a most inge
nious improvement in the piston.       It may be easily con
ceived that steam of such high rarity as Mr. Woolf employs,
could not be made fully effective with the piston in common
use ; for in proportion to its rarity so must be the facility
with which a portion of it would escape, and pass by the
side of the piston to the vacuous part of the cylinder : but
Mr. Woolf -s contrivance seems perfectly adapted to prevent
the loss of even the smallest portion of the steam.
    Besides these improvements on the common steam-en
gine, he has also found means to apply the same principles
to the old engine, known by the name of Savary-s, in such
                                                         a way

            New Improvements     oft Steam-Engines.          \ 23
a   way as to render the same a powerful       and ceconomical
engine for a great variety of purposes.
     Such is the outline    of Mr. Woolf-s improvements on
this most useful engine : but, for the general information
of practical engineers, we shall here subjoin a more tech
nical description, in Mr. Woolf-s own words, extracted
from his specification of liis patent.
     " I have found out and invented a contrivance, by which
the temperature of the steam vessel or working cylinder of a
steam-engine, or of the steam vessels or cylinders Avhere
more than one are used, may be raised to any required tem
perature, without admitting steam from the boiler into any
surrounding receptacle, whether known by the name of a
steam case, or by any other denomination.         That is to say,
 instead of admitting steam of a high temperature into such
 receptacle or steam case, which is always attended with
 a risk of explosion proportioned       to the elasticity of the
 'team employed, I put into the said surrounding receptacle,
 or case, oil or the fat of animals, or wax, or other substances
 capable of being melted by a lower temperature          than the
 heat intended to be employed, and of bearing that heat
 without being converted into vapour : or I put into the said
  case or cases mercury or mixtures of metals, as of tin, bis
  muth, and lead, capable of being kept in a state of fusion
  in a lower temperature than that intended to be employed
  in working the steam-engine ; and I so form the surround
  ing case or cases as to make it or them admit the aforesaid
  oil, or other substance employed, to come into contact not
  only with the sides of the steam vessel or vessels, or work
  ing cylinder or cylinders, but also with the bottom and top
  of the same, so that the whole may be as much as possible
  maintained at one uniform temperature ; and this tempera
  ture I keep up by a fire immediately under or round the
  case or cases that contains the aforesaid oil or other sub
  stance, or by connecting the said case or cases with a se
  parate vessel or vessels, kept at a proper temperature, filled
  with the oil or other substance made use of as aforesaid.
   In some circumstances, or whenever the same may be con
  venient or desirable, I employ the fluid metals, or mixtures
   of metals, and oil or other of the substances before enu
   merated, at one and the same time in the same engine: that
  is to say, in the part of the case or vessel exposed to the
   greatest action of the fire, I sometimes have the aforesaid
   metals or mixtures of metals, and in the parts less exposed
   to the action of the fire, I put oil, or other substances ca-
   •                                                         pable

 126        New Improvements on Steam-Engines.
pable   of bearing the requisite heat without being converted
  into vapour.
   "   By this arrangement, and method of applying the sur
 rounding heat, I not only obviate the necessity of employ
 ing steam of a great expansive force round the steam vessel
 or vessels, or the working cylinder or cylinders, as already
 mentioned, to maintain them at the temperature required,
 but I am enabled to obtain from steam of a comparatively
 low temperature, or even from water itself admitted into
 the steam vessel or vessels, -all the effects that can be ob
 tained from steam of a high temperature, without any of
 the risk with which the production of the latter is accom
 panied, not only to the boiler and other parts of the ma
 chinery, but even to the lives of the workmen ; for such
 low steam, or even water, (but in every case steam is pre
 ferable,) being admitted into a steam vessel or vessels, or
working cylinder or cylinders, kept at the requisite higher
 temperature by the forementioned means, will there be ex
panded in any ratio required, and produce an effect in the
working of the engine which cannot otherwise be obtained
but at a greater expense of fuel, or with the risk of an ex
plosion.    By this means I can make use of steam expanded
in any required ratio, or of any given temperature, without
the necessity of ever having the steam of any greater elas
ticity than equal to the pressure of the common atmo
sphere.
   " Another   improvement which        Imake use of in steam-
engines consists in a method of preventing, as much as
possible, the passage of any of the steam from that side of
the piston which is acted upon by the said steam to the
other side which is open to the condenser ; and this I ef
fect, in those steam-engines known by the name of double
engines, by employing upon or above the piston mercury
or fluid metal, or metals in an altitude equal to the pressure
of the steam. The efficacy of this arrangement will appear
obvious, from attending to what must take place in working
such a piston.     When the piston is ascending, that           is,
when the steam    is admitted below the piston, the space on
its other side being open to the condenser, the steam en
deavouring to pass up oy the side of the piston       is  met and
effectually prevented   by  the  column   of  metal  equal or su
perior  to it in  pressure,  and  during   the  down   stroke no
steam can possibly pass without first forcing all the metal
            In working what        called single engine,       less
                                is is
through.                                    a              a
considerable altitude of metal      required,  because  the steam
                                                           always

            New Improvements    on Steam-Engines.          127
always acts on the upper side of the piston.    For single en
gines, oil, or wax, or fat of animals, or similar substances,
in sufficient quantity, will answer the purpose, if another
improvement, which constitutes part of my said invention,
be applied to the engine, namely, to take care that in either
the double or single engine so to be worked, the outlet that
conveys the steam to the condenser shall be so posited, and
of such a size, that the steam may pass without forcing
before it or carrying with it any of the metal or other sub
stance employed, that may have passed by the piston; taking
care at the same time to provide another exit for the metal or
other substance collected at the bottom of the steam vessel
or working cylinder to convey the same into a reservoir
kept at a proper heat, whence it is to be conveyed to the
upper side of the piston by a small pump worked by the
engine or by any other contrivance. In order that the fluid
metal or metals used with the piston may not be oxidated,
 I always keep some oil or other fluid substance on its sur
face, to prevent its coming in contact with the atmosphere;
 and to prevent the necessity of employing a large quantity
 of fluid metal, I generally make my piston of the depth of
the column required, but of a diameter a little less than the
 steam vessel or working cylinder, excepting where the pack
ing or other fitting is necessary to be applied ; so that, in
 fact, the column of fluid metal forms only a thin body round
 the piston. In some cases I make a hollow metallic piston,
 and apply an altitude of fluid metal in the inside of the
 same, to press its outsideinto contact with the steam vessel
or working cylinder.
     " It may be necessary, however, to state, that in apply
 ing my improved method of keeping the steam vessels of
 steam-engines at any required temperature to the engine
 known by the name of Savary's, in any of its improved
 forms, in which a separate condenser has been introduced,
 I sometimes employ oil (or any other substance lighter than
  water, and capable of being kept fluid in the temperature
 employed, without being converted into vapour,) in the
 upper part of the tube or pipe attached to the steam vessel;
 by which means steam of any temperature may be used
 without being exposed to the risk of partial condensation
 by the admission of any colder body into the steam vessel ;
 for the oil, or other substance employed for this purpose,
  soon acquires the requisite temperature; and to prevent
  unnecessary escape of heat, I construct of, or line with, an
  imperfect conductor of heat, that part of the tube or pipe
  attached to the steam vessel which may not be heated ex-
             3                                         teriorly.

  1 28         New Acid found in Alkaline Prussiates.
 teriorly.     And further, (as is already the practice in some
 engines,     and   therefore  not exclusively claimed by me,)
 I cause the water raised by the engine to pass off through
 another ascending tube than the one attached to the steam
 vessel, but connected with it at some part lower than the
 oil or other substance employed in it is ever suffered to de
 scend to in the working of the engine.              The improvement
 which I have just mentioned, of introducing oil into the
 pipe attached to the steam vessel of such engines, may also
 be introduced without applying heat externally to the steam
vessel ; but in this case part of the effect which would other
 wise be gained is lost."
XXVI.       Extract of a Letter from M. Rinck, ofTreysa,
         on a new     Acid found in Alkaline Prussiates *.
You       are undoubtedly acquainted with the Prolusions of
Winterl,      and you will have verified the most part of his
arguments.        I  should wish to know how you have judged
of this work.        In Germany, this author and his booli were
at first exceedingly ill used. They rejected indiscriminately,
and without examination, all that M. Winterl had advanced.
But of     late his opinions have been discussed, and people
begin to do him justice.          His system has now many sup
porters, and deserves, by all accounts, considerable atten
tion.
    Among the observations of Winterl, we find the follow
ing : that in the prussiate and carbonate of potash there
exists a salt which dissolves in alcohol, does not precipitate
the solution of iron in a blue but in a red colour, and is
essentially distinguished from prussiate of potash by its other
properties. Although the Prussian lixivium has been care
fully examined by many chemists, none of them has recog
nised this salt. However, it is found in itj and I myself
have obtained it.        I am occupied at this moment in a train
of experiments on this subject, as well as on the formation
of prussic acid, which have already afforded some interest
ing results, and which promise to furnish me with some
new facts.
    Some carbonated iron which I examined offered me some
particular phenomena.           Weak acids exercise hardly any
action, when cold, upon this iron.              They require for this
effect the aid of heat,        or to be  concentrated. The nitric
                     • From fan Mons's Journal, vol. vi.
                                                                 acid

                   Chemico- Galvanic         Observations.                 199
acid was decomposed, and nitrous gas was disengaged.
From the sulphuric and muriatic acids hydrogen were
evolved. This fossil blackens at a red heat.                   The carbonic
acid was decomposed, and disengaged itself under the form
of gaseous oxide of carbon; and the iron became still more
oxidated. This metal is found in the carbonate at the mi
nimum of oxidation, and under the form of white oxide*.
    It would be difficult, considering the concomitant dis
engagement of the other gases, to determine justly what is
contained in the carbonic gas of this carbonated iron.
    We know that Morecchini has found fluoric acid in fossil
elephants' bones.          Does not this fact, which is confirmed
by Klaproth, lead us to suspect that phosphoric acid trans
forms itself into fluoric acid ? Many appearances come in
aid of this suspicion, and, among others, the property of
phosphoric- acid to corrode glass : the common property of
fluates and phosphates of lime to yield a pyrophoric light, &c.
The observations made by Gehlen on the occasion of his
trials upon aether with fluoric acid, deserve on this account
an equal attention.           And Klaproth, in analysing the topaz,
in which he found 0*05 — 0*07 parts of fluoric acid, has
observed another fact, Which is particularly remarkable,
viz. that the loss which this fossil undergoes by ignition
is alwavs more considerable in crucibles of lead than of
clay ; although, after the observations of Gnyton on the
bad quality of carbons for conducting heat, one would have
expected a contrary effect, which appears to indicate that
in the former crucibles the topaz undergoes another action
than that of fire.
         XXVII.        Chemico- Galvanic          Observations.      By
                              M. Oersted f.
X have lately discovered a Galvanic phaenomenon hitherto
unknown. I was led to it by an experiment of M. Ritter,
 published some years ago. This philosopher had found that
    * There is in this
                       department, in theneighbourhood of Jodogne, a mine of
vitriol of iron in great crystalline masses perfectly transparent and colourless,
which, by its appearance, one would take for Glauber's salts. The earth
 which surrounds this salt consists, in that part of it which is not in contact
with the air, almost entirely of black oxide of iron. The salt itssif, when
it is dissolved, becomes green by its being exposed to the air, after which
it is precipitated by the same alkalis under the ordinary colour.       My col
league De Roover, who has made me acquainted with this salt, has received
solid masses of it many pounds in weight.— V. M.
   f  From Van Mom's Journal, vol. vi.
Vol. S3. No. 90. Nov.            1805.          I                            the

130            On the Art of Aquatinta Engraving.
the conducting wires of a pile held in the flame of a taper
were covered with> figures of soot, which on the negative
wire took the form of a vegetation, and on the positive wire
a different form.      It was to be supposed from this that all
Galvanic oxidation was accompanied with a similar phae-
nomenon.        To assure myself of this, I put the two poles
of the pile in communication with two solutions of the
acetate of lead.      On the positive side the oxide of lead wa=
precipitated    in a brown    colour : on t^e negative side it was
reduced.      The oxide took a form similar to the figures of
soot of the positive pole ; and the reduced metal lonned a
beautiful vegetation. The form of the oxide was like the
roots of plants.
     In the course of his experiments on the commotion which
the mercury experienced, Ritter had remarked that tbU
metal became less liquid on the oositive side, and more
liquid on the negative side.          I have repeated this ex|Hiri-
ment, and found it confirmed : however, to assure myself
 still more completely of the existence of the t fleet, I made
the experiment with an amalgamation of lead, wh-ch I kept
melted under hot water. 1 let the water cool in commu
nication with the poles of the pile, and I remarked that
 towards the positive pole the amalgamation was consoli
 dated more quickly than towards the negative.          This fact,
moreover, agrees with two other phaenomena observed by
 Ritter, viz. that the spark of the positive side inflames the
 leaves of metals, whilst that of the negative side melts
 them ; and that the hydrogen pole excites a sensation of
 heat, whilst the positive pole does not, but rather excites a
 sensation of cold.
 XXVIII.       On the Art of Aqvatinta Engraving; with a
      Description of an Apparatus to prevent the Inconvenience
     which Artists experience jrom the lfumes which are pro
     duced ly the Action of the Acid employed in the Process.
   JL HE principal intention of the present article is to describe
  the apparatus    mentioned in the title. Some of our readers
 may,    however,   be gratified by finding along with it some
 account of the art in which the contrivance is proposed to
 be used.      We therefore insert here the best description we
 have yet met with icspecting that branch of engraving, ex
 tracted from the new edition of Dr. Rees-s Cyclopaedia.
     The" art of a^uaiinta was invented by Le Prince, a French
                                                             artist,

             On the  Art of Aquatint a Engraving.            J 31
artist, who for a long time kept his process a secret.          It
has, however, been much improved since.            It consists in
 corroding a copper-plate with aquafortis in such a manner
that an impression from it has an appearance very much
 resembling a drawing in Indian ink. " This is effected by
 covering the copper with a powder or some substance which
 lakes a granulated form, so as to prevent the aquafortis from
 acting where the particles adhere, and by this means cause
 it to corrode the copper partially and in the interstices only.
 When these particles are extremely minute, and near to
 each other, the impression from the plate appears to the
naked eye exactly like a wash of Indian ink. But when
 they are larger, the granulation is more distinct ; and as
 this may be varied at pleasure, it is capable of being adapted
 with great success to a variety of purposes and subjects.
     " This powder or granulation is called the aquatinta
 grain, and there are two general modes of producing it.
     " We shall first describe what is called the powder grain,
because it was the first that was used.       Having etched the
 outline on a copper-plate. prepared in the usual way by the
coppersmith, (for which see the article Etching,) some sub
 stance must be tinelv powdered and sifted which will melt
with heat, and when cold adhere to the plate, and resist
 the action of aquafortis.    The substances which have been
used for this purpose, either separately or mixed, are as-
phaltum, Burgundy pitch, \ resin, gum-copal, and gum-
mastic ; and, in a greater or less degree, all the resins and
gum-resins will answer the purpose. Common resin has
Been most generally used, and answers tolerably well ;
though gum.copal makes a grain that resists the aquafortis
better.    The subsiance intended to be used for the grain
must now be distributed over the plate as equally as possi
ble ; and different methods of performing this essential part
of the operation have been used by different engravers, and
at different times.    The most usual way is to tie up some
of the powder in a piece of muslin, and to strike it against
a piece of stick held at a considerable height above the plate.
By this, the powder that issues falls gently, and settles
equally over the plate. Every one must have observed how
uniformly hair-powder settles upon the furpiture' after the
operations of the hair.dresser : this may afford a hint to
wards the best mode of performing this part of the process.
The powder must fall upon it from a considerable height,
and there must be a sufficiently large cloud of dust formed.
The plate, being covered equally over with the dust or pow
der, the operator is next to proceed to fix it upon the plate,
                              1 2                             by

J S3         On the   Art of Aquatinta Engraving.
by heating it gently, so as to' melt the particles. This may
be effected by holdmg under the plate lighted pieces of
brown paper rolled up, and moving them about till every
part of the powder is melted. This will be known by its
change of colour, which will turn brownish.          It must now
be suffered to cool, when it ma\ be examined vvith a mag
nifier ; and if the grains or particles appear to be uniformly
distributed it is ready for the next part of the process.
    "  The design or drawing to be engraved must now be
examined, and such parts of it as are perfectly white are to
be remarked.       Those corresponding parts of the plate must
be covered, or stopped out, as it is called, with turpentine,
or what is better, mastic varnish, diluted with turpentine to
a proper consistence to work freely with the pencil, and
mixed with lamp-black to give it colour ; for, if transpa
rent, the touches of the pencil would not be so distinctly
seen.    The margin of the plate must also be covered with
varnish.     When the stopping out is sufficiently dry, a bor
der of wax must be raised round the plate in the same man
ner as in etching, and the aquafortis, properly diluted with
water, poured on.        This is called biting in ; and it is that
part  of  the   process which is most uncertain, and which
requires  the  greatest degree of experience. When the aqua
fortis has lain on so long that the plate, when printed, would
produce the lightest tint in the drawing, it is poured off,
and the plate washed with water, and dried.            When it is
quite dry, the lightest tints are stopped out, and the aqua
fortis poured on as before ; and this is repeated as often as
there are tints to be produced in the plate.
    " Although many plates are etched entirely by this me
thod of stopping out and biting in alternatelv, yet it may
be easily conceived that in general it would be very difficult
to stop round and leave out all the finishing touches, as
 also the leaves of trees, and many other objects, which
it would be impossible to execute with the necessary degree
of freedom in this manner.
    " To overcome this difficulty, another very ingenious
process has been inventc!, by which the touches are laid
on the plate with the same ease and expedition as they are
in a drawing in Indian ink. Fine washed whiting is mixed
with a little treacle or sugar, and diluted with water* in the
 pencil, so as to work freely, and this is laid on the plate
 covered with the aquatint ground, in the same manner and
 on the same parts as ink on the drawing.           When this is
dry,  the whole    plate is varnished over  with a weak   and thin
 varnish  of turpentine, asphaltum,    or  mastic,  and  then  suf
                                                              fered

                                 '
                 On the   Art of Aquattnta Engraving.            133
  fered    to dry, when the aquafortis is poured on.            The
  varnish will immediately break up in the parts where the
  treacle mixture was laid, and expose all those places to the
  action of the acid, while the rest of the plate remains se
  cure. The effect of this will be, that all the touches, or
  places where the treacle was used, will be bit in deeper than
  the rest, and will have all the precision of touches in Indian
  ink.
      "  After the plate is completely bit in, the bordering wax
  is taken   off by heating the plate a little with a lighted piece
  of  paper ; and it is then cleared from the ground and varnish
  by oil of turpentine, and wiped clean with a rag and a little
  fine whiting, and then it is ready for the printer.
      " The principal disadvantages of this method of aqua-
  tinting are, that it is extremely difficult to produce the re
  quired degree of coarseness or fineness in the grain, and that
  plates so engraved do not print many impressions without
  wearing out.       It is therefore now very seldom used, though
  it is occasionally of service.
      " We next proceed to describe the second method of
   producing the aquatint ground, which is generally adopted.
   Some resinous substance is dissolved in spirits of wine, as
   for instance common resin, Burgundy pitch, or mastic, and
   this solution is poured all over the plate, which is then held
   in a slanting direction till all the superfluous fluid drains off,
   and it is then laid down to dry, which it does in a few mi
   nutes.     If the plate be then examined with the magnifier,
   it will be found that fhe spirit in evaporating has left the
   resin in a granulated state ; or rather, that the latter has
   cracked in every possible direction, still adhering firmly to
.  the copper.      A grain is thus produced with the greatest
   ease, which is extremely regular and beautiful, and much
    superior for most purposes to that produced by the other
    method.      After the grain is formed, every part of the pro
    cess is conducted in the same manner as above described.
       " Having thus given a general idea of the art, we shall
    mention some particulars necessary to be attended to, in
    order to ensure success in the operatioh.         The spirits of
    wine must be rectified, and of the best quality : what is
    sold in the shops contains camphor, which would entirely
    spoil the grain.
       " Resin, Burgundy pitch, and gum-mastic, when dis
    solved in spirits of wine, produce grains of a different ap
    pearance and figure, and are sometimes used separately and
    sometimes mixed in different proportions, according to the
                                    I 3                         taste

134               On the    Art of Aquatint a Engraving.
taste   of    the artist,   some using one substance    and some an
other.
   "  In order to produce a coarse or fine grain, it is neces
sary to use a greater or smaller quantity of resin ; and to
ascertain the proper proportions, several spare pieces of
copper must be provided, on which the liquid may be
poured, and the grain examined before      it is applied to the
plate  to be engraved.
   "  After the solution is made, it must stand still and un
disturbed for a day or two, till all the impurities of the resin
have settled to the bottom, and the fluid is perfectly pel
lucid.       No other method of freeing it from        those impurities
has been     found to answer.         Straining    it through    linen or
muslin fills it with hairs, which are ruinous to the grain.
    " The room in which the liquid is poured on the plate
must be perfectly still, and free from dust, which, whenever
it falls on the plate while wet, causes the grain to form a
white spot, which it is impossible to remove without laying
the grain afresh.
    " The plate must be previously cleaned, with the greatest
possible caie, with a rag and whiting, as the smallest stain
or particle of grease produces a streak or blemish in the
grain.
   "   All these attentions are absolutely necessary to produce
 a tolerable regular grain ; and, after every thing that can be
done by the most experienced artists, still there is much un
certainty in the process.         They are sometimes obliged to
lay on the grain several       times   before they procure one suf
ficiently regular.    The   same    proportions of materials do not
always produce      the  same    effect,   as it depends in some de
gree upon     their qualities,   and   it  is even materially affected
by   the weather.    These   difficulties   are not to.be surmounted
but by a great deal of experience; and those who aie daily
 in the habit of practising the art are frequently liable to the
 most unaccountable accidents.             Indeed it   is* much to be
lamented, that so elegant and useful         a   process   should    be so
delicate and uncertain.
   "     Itbeing necessary to hold the plate in          a  slanting  di
 rection in order to drain off the superfluous flu.d, there
 will naturally be greater body of the liquid at the bottom
                        a
 than at the top of the plate.        On this account,        asrrain laid
 in this way      always coarser at that side of the plate that
                   is
 -was held lowermost.       The most usual way          is,  to keep the
 coarsest side for the foreground, being generally the part
 that has the deepest shadows.           In large landscapes, some-
                                                                   -
                                                                     times

                   On the   Art of Aquatint a. Engraving.,                             135
times various parts are laid with different grains, according
to the nature of the subject.
     "
     The finer the grain              is,
                             the more nearly does the impres
sion resemble Indian ink, and the fitter                 for imitating
                                                                   it   is
drawings.      But  very fine  grains  have  several  disadvantages                     :
for they are apt to come off before the aquafortis has lain
on long enough to produce the desired depth                 and as the       ;
plate     not
         is    corroded   so  deep,     sooner  wears
                                                 it      out  in print
ing whereas coarser grains are firmer, the acid goes deeper,
     :
and the plate will throw off great many more impressions.
                                            a
The reason of all this        evident, when
                                 is                  considered, that
                                                              it   is
in   the fine grains the particles are small and near to each
other, and consequently the aquafortis, which acts laterally
as well as downwards, soon undermines the particles and
causes them to come off.            left too long on the plate, the
                                            If
acid would eat away the grain entirely.
   " On these accounts, therefore, the moderately coarse
grains are more sought after, and answer better the pur
pose of the publisher, than the fine grains which were for
merly in use.
   "Although there are considerable difficulties           laying pro        in
perly the aquatint grain, yet the corroding the copper, or
biting in, so as to produce exactly the tint required,              still         is
more precarious and uncertain. All engravers allow that no
positive rules can be laid down                     by
                                          which the success of the
process can be secured          nothing but
                                  ;              great deal of expe
                                                              a
rience and attentive observation can enable the artist to do
it with any degree of certainty.
     " There are some hints, however, which may be of con
siderable importance to the person who wishes to attain the
practice of this art.
     "   It  evident, that the longer the acid remains on the
              is
copper,    the deeper     bites, and consequently the darker will
                            it
be   the shade   in the  impression.         may be of some use,
                                                         It
therefore, to have several bits of cbpper laid with aquatint
ground of the same kind that           to be used in the plate, and
                                                 is
 to let the aquafortis remain for different lengths «of time on
each and then to examine the tints produced in one, two,
         ;
three, four minutes, or longer.          Observations of this kind
frequently repeated,      and    with different degrees of strength
of the acid, will at length assist the judgment in guessing
at the tint which        produced in the plate.
                            is                         A magnifier                       is
also useful to examine the grain, and to observe the depth to
which        itbit.
                  is     must be observed that no proof of the
                            It
plate   can  be obtained   till the whole process       finished.       is
    " If any part appears to have been bit too dark, must                         it
                                            1   4                                        be

136                 On the    Art of Ayuatinta Engraving.
be burnished down with a steel burnisher ; and this requires
great delicacy and good management, not to make the shade
streaky: and the oeauty and durability of the grain is al
ways somewhat injured by       so that   it,
                                          should be avoided it
as much as possible.
     " Those parts which are not dark enough must have                                   a
fresh grain laid over them, and be stopped round with var
nish and subjected again to the aquafortis.        This    called              is
re-liting, and requires peculiar care and attention. The
plate must be very well cleaned out with turpentine before
the grain      laid on, which should be pretty coarse, other
                   is
wise     will not lie upon the heights only, as
         it                                         necessary in is
order to produce the same grain.       If the new grain dif                         is
ferent from the former,       will not be so clear, nor so firm,
                                  it
but rotten.
   " We have now given general account of the process
                                     a
of engraving in aquatinta; and we believe that no material
circumstance has been omitted that can be communicated
without seeing the operation.        But alter all,     must be       it
confessed that no printed directions whatever can enable                                 a
person to practise it.    Its success depends upon so many
niceties, and attention to circumstances apparently trifling,
that the person who attempts        must not be surprised
                                            it                 he                   if
does not succeed at first. It       species of engraving simple
                                       is   a
and expeditious,       every thing goes on well
                          if                       but      very ;           it   is
precarious, and the errors which are made are rectified with
great difficulty.
     "  seems to be adapted chiefly for imitations of sketches,
         It
washed drawings, and slight subjects; but does not appear
to be at all calculated to produce prints from finished pic
tures, as     itnot susceptible of that accuracy in the balance
                    is
of tints necessary for this purpose. Nor does appear to
be suited for boot plates, as  does not throw off
                                       it          sufficient         a it
number of impressions.          therefore not to be put into
                                    It   is
 competition with the other modes of engraving.          If con
 fined to those subjects for which       calculated',
                                                 it   ismust be           it
 allowed to be extremely useful, as            expeditious, and
                                                       it   is
 may be attained with much less difficulty than any other
mode of engraving. But even this circumstance             source
                                                                          is
                                                                          a
of mischief, as occasions the production of
                         it                           multitude       a
 of prints that have no other effect than that of vitiating the
 public taste."
    In the art before described, the artists experience much
inconvenience from the quantity ot fumes liberated by the
action of the acid upon the copper, which, when the plate
it  large,   very great.
              is          To remedy this inconvenience, the
          3                                                               following

                    On pure Nickel.                                  137
following arrangement, which      we think well calculated to
answer the purpose, has been suggested to us by Mr. Cor
nelius Varley, a young artist who distinguishes himself no
less by his mechanical abilities than bv the exquisite pro
ductions or' his pencil in water colours : — Get a frame made
of common deal or anv kind of wood, three or four inches
deep, covered with a plate of glass, and open at one side;
and let the side opposite to this have a round opening com
municating, by means of common iron pipe, with the ash
pit of any little stove or other fire.place, shut up from all
other access of air but what must pass through the pipe. It
is obvious that any fumes rising from a copper-plate laid
 under such a fiame will be carried backward into the iron
 pipe by the current of air required to maintain combustion
 in the stove, and will by this means be carried up the chim
 ney in place of being allowed to fly about in the apartment.
The pipe may be very conveniently used by carrying it
 down through the table to the floor, and so along to the
 place where the chimnev may chance to stand; and when
 the frame is not wanted, the pipe at one of the joinings
 (as at A, Plate V.) may be made to answer the purpose of
 a hinge by which to turn up the frame against the wall, as
 marked by the dotted lines, where it may be secured, while
 out of use, by a button or any other contrivance.
XXIX.     On pure Nickel, discovered to be a noble Metal; on
   its Preparation and Properties.   By J. B. Richter*.
 When sulphate of ammonia and nickel are repeatedly
crystallized, the whole of the cobalt, excepting a very
minute quantity, is separated ; but there still remains some
copper mixed with the salt. I some time ago announced, that
this metal may be separated from the nickel by subliming the
latter with sal ammoniac, but I had not then ever obtained
pure nickel.    With the compound salt of nickel and am
monia there still remains a little arsenic. Iron also may be
in it,    we have been
         if             alittle too sparing    the addition of
                                                        in
nitric acid to the sulphuric solution of cobalt containing
nickel.
 I    attempted to separate these extraneous metals in the
humid way, but without complete success.         By means of
 carbonate of potash, I  decomposed    the triple ammoniacal
               • From Van
                          Sfunt's   Journal   it   Chimie, voL vi.
                                                                     salt

  138                              On pure Nickel.
  salt    of nickel free from iron, and as much so as possible
    from cobalt;         but the precipitate was still visibly of a
    greenish blue colour.           Having edulcorated it and heated it
    to redness, it parted with its carbonic acid, and changed its
    colour to a blackish gray, which, however, inclined evidently
    to a green.       The water employed in washing                  it,
                                                                       which had
 a     greenish appearance, was evaporated to dryness, and the
    residuum, after being heated red hot, was washed again.
   A green powder remained, which did not lose its colour
    in the fire, and consisted chiefly of arseniate of nickel.
       Each of the two residuums were separately mixed with
 a    fifth part of charcoal, and, in cupel with
                                            a                a   little porcelain
   glaze, exposed to the heat of potter-s furnace for eighteen
                                        a
    hours.      Each result endured         a     few blows of         ahammer
   without crack ing; but that of the latter residuum \va$
   much more white and fragile than that of the former,
    the colour of which approached                   that of steel, and was
    slightly reddish. They were both attacked with avidity
  by     nitric acid, and they were attracted           by   the magnet, but
   trie former only weakly.
       Asit    appeared to me probable from some of its effects
    on porcelain that pure nickel was           a   noble metal, dissolved
                                                                      I
   again, in nitric acid, the whole quantity reduced, which
. amounted to several            ounces, and evaporated the solution
   to dryness.     I      then, poured water on the saline mass, and
 a    beautiful green solution was formed; but greenish whitea
   residuum remained,         in  which I     easily detected the presence
   of iron,    nickel,  and arsenic acid.
       This solution, which contained considerable portion of
                                                a
   copper, besides arsenic, was precipitated                 by    carbonate of
   potash,     and    the   residuum,     the    colour   of   which.   was still
   very lively, though         not  so   green     as  that   of   carbonate   of
   copper,     was   well    washed     and    exposed     to    a  white   heat.
  This changed its apple-green colour to deep green inclining
                                                    a
   togray and brown. With           a
                                        stronger heat the mass assumed
a    grayer    brown,    and  at  the  same    time appeared to coagulate.
  There      were   likewise    portions    of    reduced metal in         it,
                                                                             that .
  could not be mistaken. — could not, however, accomplish
                                   I
  its fusion  in   a   wind-furnace surmounted with               a  cupellating
  furnace dome, and having              a    long chimney.            In conse
  quence, I      divided it   into   several   portions,     which    I exposed
  in crucible* to the strongest heat of potter-s furnace, in
                                                    a
  which capsules of the most refractory clay are frequently
 softened .
   In such crucibles as were placed where the                     porcelain re
                                                                         quires

                              On pure Nickel.                             139
quires the longest time to bake           it,
                                      the matter underwent no
change  but  that of being coagulated. In the other crucibles
the matter had fused, but not so as to be completely liquid:
the crucibles themselves had also partly experienced the same
effect: here and there in the melted mass metallic globules
were found, the largest of which were the size of small               a
nut, and the least that of cherry-stone.
                                 a             Their brilliancy
was mean between that of silver and that of English tin.
     a
The scoriae were greenish brown, mixed with an amethyst
colour, and in some places        deep blue entirely like fused
                                      a
oxide of cobalt. The brown colour arose from the oxide
of copper, which was completely vitrified, and the blue
from that of cobalt. The green, on the contrary, proceeded
 from arseniate of nickel, which, as experience has taught
 me, strongly resists fusion unless some combustible sub
 stance be added to it.
    To my great satisfaction on, trying the metallic globules
 with a hammer,      Jfound that they possessed    considerable
                                                              a
degree      of malleability.
   As   I found       impossible to separate with
                     it                                hammer     a
the scoriae from the little globules to which they adhered,                I
collected them together       trituration and decantation, and
                                 by
exposed    them   to fusion afresh.             It
                                           was again complete
only in the places of the furnace most heated.
   These experiments having convinced me that nickel                           is
reducible in the fire, without the addition of any combus
tible matter, attempted to reduce some oxide of this metal,
                 I
obtained        the decomposition of the triple ammoniacal
               by
salt of nickel, which during an uninterrupted labour of
eighteen months         had procured in
                          I                 very large quantity.
                                                     a
On this occasion the same phaenomena occurred as in the
preceding reductions.
  The melting     repeated till the metal had undergone
                                                                               a a
                    I
complete fusion, and was found collected together                         in
button at the bottom of the crucible,       in one crucible
which had been exposed to the strongest heat,     obtained    I                a
button that weighed an ounce and      half.    was less suc
                                                a            I
cessful in my fusion when mixed the oxide of nickel with
                                  I
porcelain glaze, or when simply covered
                                I            with this glaze;
                                                         it
so that   was convinced the best process was to reduce the
          I
oxide of nickel directly.   After much time and patience,
succeeded     obtaining several ounces of nickel, which
               in                                                          I I
must consider as absolutely pure     and     shall now pro
                                                :        I
ceed to describe the principal characters that     have per      I
ceived in      this state. — To begin with the external cha
              it
              in
 racters.
                                                                          The

 140                          On pure Nickel.
    The colour of pure nickel isamean          between silver and tin.
    It is no way        altered  either by atmospheric air, or the
 water it contains. In other words, it is not susceptible of
 being oxided by the air.
     It is so perfect ly malleable, that it may not only be forged
 into bars when red hot, but hammered on the anvil while
 cold into very thin plates. This character removes nickel
 from the class of semi-metals to that of perfect metals.
     Its density or specific gravity is pretty considerable: from
 repeated     experiments with my hydrometer, cast nickel
 weighs 8-27y, and forged nickel 8-666.
    Its tenacity is likewise considerable, if we may judge from
its great ductility.         A piece of cast nickel, weighing five
 drachms allowed itself to be flattened, but not without crack
 ing, into a plate of 13 square inches Rhynland measure,
 which gives less than -^-g of an inch for its thickness.              It
 might probably be drawn into a wire of the same tenuity.
    The resistance of nickel to fusion is considerable, and
equals, if it does not surpass, that of manganese. The reader,
 from my attempts to fuse                 may have observed how
                                           it,
 difficult
         it   is  to obtain on this head any thing decisive.
    When exposed to sufficiently high temperature, the pure-
                          a
 oxide of nickel    is     reducible without the addition of any
 combustible matter. Its great resistance to fusion                  the
                                                                      is
 only   cause  why   this   reduction  presents  so  many  difficulties.
Very little oxidation, too,            perceptible on keeping this
                                      is
metal in  a    state of incandescence            : merely tarnished
                                                      it   is              a
little more than platina, gold, or silver. Nickel, therefore,
belongs not to the class of perfect metals merely, but to
that of noble metals.
    The magnet exercises on nickel an action not only
very considerable, but little inferior to that on iron.              be
                                                                     It
comes magnetical, or acquires polarity, by the touch, and
 even in part      by   striking  it  with     hammer, or filing
                                                      a                    it,
with the precautions suitable for producing this effect.                   I
discovered      the latter property         by
                                           presenting to the magnet
a   slip of forged nickel; when, notwithstanding                    was
                                                                     it
polished   by    the file, it  adhered more feeblv to the magnet
than other slips less polished         ; but on my presenting its
other extremity to the magnet,               adhered to
                                                 it        with great
                                                                it
force.   It   likewise attracted       by either side not only iron
needles, but plates of nickel half an inch square, which                   it
caused to move about on           asmooth table.
    Nickel does not lose its property of becoming magnetic,
but has  it   weakened      by being alloyed with copper. Arsenic,
however, completely destroys it.               had frequent opportu
                                                  I
                                                                  nities

                                   On pure Mckel.                              141
 nities of making this observation in the course of my ex
 periments.          Some nickel, from which I had separated the.
 iron* and the arsenic in the humid way, and which I had
 afterwards reduced with the addition of a combustible
 substance, was malleable, and attracted                          the magnet,
 though not so forcibly as pure                  nickel.     The same metal,
             with less care,        was  less malleable,    and  proportionally
   ess attractable by the magnet. Repeated exposure of the me
 fmriried
 tal to the most powerful heat of a porcelain furnace did not
 in the least restore to it this property. —Some experiments,
 which I shall hereafter relate, have convinced me, that
 copper cannot be entirely separated from nickel in the
 humid way, and that the only means of separating them is
  to reduce the cupreous oxide of nickel by tire.
      The sulphuric and muriatic acids exercise but little action
 on nickel. Even its oxide by air does not dissolve in the
 latter without the assistance of a strong ebullition.                        The
 most appropriate solvents of nickel are the nitric and nitro-
 muriatic acids. I have already mentioned, that impure
 nickel, particularly the cupreous, is attacked by the nitric
 acid with heat and vivacity.                 The action of the same acid
 on pure nickel is a little different, and particularly on the
 hammered metal.                I have poured nitric acid on nickel both
 in buttons and laminated, expecting a very active solution ;
but it has proceeded slowly, and I have even been obliged to
 have recourse to the heat of a spirit lamp to accelerate it.
 The dissolution, however, having appeared to cease, I de
 canted the liquid and poured on the residuum a fresh quan
 tity of acid of the same strength as the preceding, when
 on a sudden such a brisk action came on, accompanied
 with the evolution of heatf, that I could not remove the
 capsule to the fire-place quickly enough.
      I shall now proceed to consider some of the characters of
 pure nickel in the state of oxidation.
     The nitric solution of pure nickel has a beautiful grass-
green colour.           Carbonate of potash separates from it a pale
 apple.green precipitate. This precipitate well washed and
 dried is very light. A thousand parts of metallic nickel re
duced to this precipitate weigh 2*927 parts.
    * The separation of the iron succeeds best by a
                                                         rapid evaporation of the
nitric solution of the ferruginous nickel, by which the iron is precipitated
in the form of an insoluble oxide. At the same fime a little atsenic
is separated in union with the iron. It is preferable, however, to separate
the arsenic first, which is effected by the help of a nitric solution of lead.
The lead is afterwards to be precipitated by a solution of sulphate of potash.
    f  From this it is difficult to believe that nickel, under favourable circum
stances,   would not become oxide J by the combined influence of air and tire.—
 Van.   Mont.
                                                                                 If

142          Account       of d       new Vegetable        Substance.
      If
     this precipitate be exposed to a white heat it becomes of
a blackish gray, scarcely inclining to green, and weighing
only 1-285. On continuing the fire, the mass approaches
the metallic state more and more, and becomes magnetic.
This is effected much more speedily if the orcide be moist
ened with a little oil.
   Ff caustic ammonia be added in excess to a nitric solution
of nickel, a precipitate is formed, resembling in colour am-
moniure of copper, but not so deep. This colour sometimes
changes in a couple of hours to an amethyst-red, and to a
violet, which colours are converted into an apple-green on
the addition of an acid, and again to a blue and violet on
the addition of ammonia. If, however, we add to the solution
of nickel a solution of copper, so as to produce no perceptible
change, the colour of the precipitate formed by ammonia
ceases to assume a red tinge, and the red colour of the
ammoniure of nickel disappears on the addition of a little
ammoniure of copper ; whence it follows, that every pre
cipitate of nickel by ammonia which retains its blue colour,
has copper combined with it.
XXX.       Account    of    a new         Vegetable     Sulstance discovered
                             l<y   M. ROSE*.
AFTER       standing some hours,         decoction of the root of
                                              a
elecampane (hiula helenium) deposits white powder, ap  a
pearing very much like starch, but differing from            both in its
                                                                  it
 principles  and in  its manner   of action  with  other   substances,
    l.-lhis substance      insoluble, generally,in cold water:--
                            is
When triturated with            white milky liquor
                                 it   a                        formed,
                                                                   is
-which soon deposits       heavy white powder, and leaves the
                            a
supernatant water clear and colourless.
    2. In boiling water       dissolves very well.
                             it                            On boiling
one part of the white powder with four parts of water,                      a
complete solution      isobtained which passes through filter
ing paper    while  hot,  but, on cooling, acquires            mucila
                                                                   a
ginous    consistence    and    dull  colour.
                                      a          In  the    course   of
some hours this solution deposits the greater part of the
dissolved substance in the form of compact white powder.
                                               a
   One part of gum-arabic, dissolved           four parts of water,
                                                   in
i-!much thicker, of more tenacious consistence, and froths
                        a
I ghtly, which the solution of the powder from the elecam
pane root does not.
   3. The solution of the white powder mised with an equal
quantity of alcohol     isat first clear, but in      little time the
                                                             a
powder separates in the form of           tumid white sediment,
                                               a
leaving the fluid above       transparent. A solution of gum-
                                 it
                     • From Gehltn-s Journal, vol. iii.
                                                                        arable
                                                   t

 On the Torpid Slate        of the North-American        Alligator.   143
arable     on the addition of alcohol becomes immediately
milky, and long retains this appearance, no kind of powder
separating even in several days.
    4. The white powder, when thrown on burning coals,
melts like sugar and evaporates, diffusing a white, thick,
pungent smoke, with a smell of burnt sugar. After this
combustion a light residuum only remains, which runs into
the coal. Starch emits a similar smoke, but does not melt,
and leaves a coally residuum much greater in quantity.
Gum-arabic under the same circumstances gives out scarce
ly any smoke.
    When heated over charcoal in an iron spoon, the powder
first melts and emits the smoke above described ; but as
soon as the spoon becomes red hot, it burns with a vivid
 light flame, and leaves a very trifling coally residuum. Starch
under the same circumstances does not melt, is much
longer before it burns, and leaves a considerable residuum
 of coally matter. Gmn-arabic only sparkles, does not
 take fire, and leaves a great deal of coal, which is readily
 convertible into grayish ashes.
     5. From this powder, by dry distillation, we obtain a
brown empyreumatic acid, having the smell of pyroxalic
 acid, but none of empyreumatic oil.
     6. Nitric acid transforms the powder into malic and
oxalic acids, without producing a single atom of sac
 cholactic acid, which gum-arabic furnishes very abundantly
 when treated in the same manner; nor doesit yield any of the
 fatty matter generated by the action of nitric acid on starch.
      It follows from all these phaenomena, that this fari
 naceous powder extracted             from elecampane        root is nei
 ther starch nor gum, but a peculiar vegetable substance
 holding a middle rank between the two.                  It is probable
 that it exists in many other vegetables,             and that several
 products hitherto considered as starch are of the same
 nature as this farina.
 XXXI.       Facts relative to tlie Torpid State    of the North-Ame
 rican Alligator. By Benjamin Smith                 Barton, M. D*.
 X  t has   not, I think, been remarked by the generality of the
 writers on natural history, that the North American Alli
 gator passes during the prevalence of cold weather into the
 torpid state.      This, however, is unquestionably the case in
 some parts of the continent.                                              <
    *
        From Tht Philadelphia  Medical and Physical Journal, edited by Dr.
 Barton.
                                                                      Mr.

   144 On the      Torpid State of the North-American             Alligator.
      Mr. Bossu,      a French writer, after telling us that these
  animals    are  numerous       in the Red River, one~of the western
  branches     of  the  Mississippi, says      "   they are torpid daring
  the cold weather, and lie in the mud with their mouths open,
 into which the fish enter as into a funnel, and neither ad
  vance norgoback. The Indians then get upon their backs,
  and kill them, by striking their heads with hatchets, and
  this is a kind of diversion for them*."
      Dr. Foster, the translator of the work, observes in the
  preceding passage, "that the circumstance of the alligator-s
  being torpid during winter is quite new, and very remark
  able for natural history." It seems (he adds) almost all the
  class of animals called amphibia, by Dr. Linnaeus, when
  found in cold climates grow torpid during winter.
     In addition to the authority of Mr. Bossu, I may here
  mention the following fact, which was communicated to
  me about the year 1 785, by a Mr. Graham, at thai time a
  very intelligent student of medicine in the University of
  Pennsylvama.
     " The alligator, having previously swallowed a number of
  pine-knots, retires to his hole, where he remains in a torpid
  state during the severity of the winter.              If killed at thU
 season, these knots are found highly polished by their tritu-
 ration one against the other in the animal-s stomach, as I
 have more than once heard from men of undoubted veracity,
 who had been concerned in the fact.                    Indeed this is so
  notorious in those parts in which these creatures abound,
 that the digestion of the alligator's stomach is proverbial
 amongst the multitude, who deride its insipidity in the
-choice of such food, though, I presume, this it does in
 stinctively, for some purpose unaccounted for by natu
 ralists; and which, perhaps, is beyond the limits of human
 ken."
    The fact related by Mr. Graham, relates to the alligator
 of the Carolinas, in which parts of the United States this
 animal is very common. By another gentleman I have been
 informed, that the pine-knots which the alligators swallow
 are generally such as are very abundant in turpentine.                      I
 have also been assured, by my friend Mr. William Bartram,
 that he has seen a brick-bat which was taken out of the
 stomach of an alligator, and that it was worn quite round.
     Mr. Lawson says, that the alligator is not seen to the
 north of North-Carolina.             They are very common at Cape-
 Fear in latitude 34°.             One twelve feet in length has been
    » Travels through that Part of North America
                                                    formerly called Louisiana.
 English translation, vol. i. p. 367.  London 1771.
                                                                         seen

             P races s for  altaining pure Cobalt.                  145
seen    at this place.      On the Atlantic side of the United
States    I am not able to trace them further than the Alli    "
gator Dismal Swamp", which is between Edenton and
Newbern in North-Carolina.             The mouth of the Red River
in latitude    31°.    •
    Within the tract of countryjust mentioned, the alligator,
obeying the impulse of the climate, passes into the torpid
state.     In North-Carolina this takes place about the middle
of November, sooner or later according to the state of the
season.        Whether the animal becomes torpid in more
southern parts of the continent I have not been able to
learn.      On the river St. John, in East-Florida, they have
been seen awake even in the middle of winter, but it was
remarked that they seemed dull and stupid.                 It has also
been observed, that they are accustomed to frequent the
warm springs which are so abundant in this part of the
continent; and that they are fond of lying in these springs.
 Perhaps the heat of these springs may be sufficient to pre
vent them from becoming torpid. But it must be observed,
that a deficiency of heat is not the only cause of the torpid
condition of animals.
    It may not perhaps be an easy task to assign a satisfactory
cause for the singular instinctive appetite which leads the
alligator, before going into the torpid state, to swallow
pine-knots and other somewhat similar substances. But I
 apprehend that these substances, when taken in by the
ammal, act in some measure by keeping up a certain degree
of action in its stomach, and consequently in every part
of the system, and thereby prevents the death of the animal,
 which might otherwise be destroyed by the long continued
application of cold.         Some facts mentioned by Dr. Pallas,
though they respect a very different family of animals, ren
der this conjecture not a little plausible*.
    This subject is worthy of more attention.           In particular,
it will be well to inquire, whether the alligator does swallow
pine-knots, stones, 8cc., in those parts of America in which
it does not pass into the torpid state.
      XXXII.       Process  for obtaining pure     Cobalt.    By
                          -f. TKOMSDORFFf.
          intimately four parts of zaffer, well pulverized, with
one part of nitrate of potash and a half part of charcoal in
   •  Historia Glirium, &c.
   f Extracted from the Journal de Ckrmie of M. Gehlen by M. Darcet, aud
inserted in the Annatet de CMmie, No. 162.
    Vol.   23.  No, 90. Nov. 1805.                 K          powder:

146                  Method     of analysing           Stones.
powder : throw this mixture, by little and little, into a
red-hot crucible, and repeat the operation three times, adding
each time to the residue new quantities of potash and of
charcoal.
    The mass resulting from these detonations ought after
wards to be mixed with one part of black flux, and exposed
during an hour, in a crucible, to a red heat.        Leave the
whole to cool, separate the metallic cobalt and pulverize                               it,
and bring the mixture to detonate with the same precautions
indicated above.
    The iron contained in the cobalt oxidates itself very
Strongly, and the acidified arsenic combines with the pot
ash.    Wash several times the pulverized mass, and                               by   fil
tration separate the arseniate of potash, which has been
 formed, from the insoluble residue which contains the co
 balt.
    Treat this residue with nitric acid, which dissolves the
cobalt without attacking the iron, which          carried to its is
maximum of oxidation.
     Evaporate the solution to dryness redissolve the residue
                                                      ;
in the nitric acid, and filter the liquor to separate the last
 portions of oxide of iron which might have escaped at the
 first operation.
  It   only remains, then, to decompose the nitrate of cobalt
 by   potash, to wash the precipitate, and to operate the
 reduction of   it   by
                    means of heat.
XXXIII.         Method
               On   a               of
                            analysing Stones containing faced
     Alkali,   Means -of tlie Boracic Acid.
               ly                             By HUMPHRY
     DAVV, Esq. F.R. S., Professor ofCliemistry in the Royal
     Institution*.
JL HAVE found the boracic acid         very useful substance for
                                                  a
bringing   the constituent parts of stones containing       fixed                a
alkati into solution.
   Its attraction for the different simple earths   considerable is
at the heat of ignition, but the compounds that            forms             it
with them are easily decomposed                       by
                                           the mineral acids dis
solved in water, and            on this circumstance that the
                               it   is
method of analysis       founded.
                          is
   The processes are very simple.
           * From the Transactions
                                         of the   Royal Society lot   1   805.
                                                                            100 grains

       Observations on the Figure         of the Planet Saturn,      147
    100 grains of the stone to be examined in very fine pow
der, must be fused for about half an hour, at a strong red
heat, in a crucible of platina or silver, with 200 grains of
boracic acid.
    An ounce and half of nitric acid, diluted with seven or
eight times its quantity of water, must be digested upon the
fused mass till the whole is decomposed.
    The fluid must be evaporated till Its quantity is reduced
to an ounce and half or two ounces.
    If the stone contain silex, this earth will be separated
in thf process of solution and evaporation ; and it must
be collected upon a filter, and washed with distilled water
till the boracic acid and all the saline matter is separated
from it.
    The fluid, mixed with the water that has passed through
the filter, must be evaporated, till it is reduced to a con
venient quantity, such as that of half a pint ; when it must
be saturated with carbonate of ammonia, and boiled with
an excess of this salt, till all the materials that it contains,
capable of being precipitated, have fallen to the bottom of
the vessel.
    The solution must then be separated by the filter, and the
earths and metallic oxides retained.
    It must be mixed with nitric acid lill it tastes strongly
sour, and evaporated till the boracic acid appears free.
    The fluid must be passed through the filter, and subjected
to evaporation till it becomes dry; when, by exposure to a
heat equal to 450° Fahrenheit, the nitrate of ammonia will
be decomposed, and the nitrate of potash or soda will re
main in the vessel.
    It will be unnecessary for me to describe minutely the
method of obtaining the remaining earths and metallic oxides
free from each other, as I have used the common processes.
I have separated the alumine by solution of potash, the lime
by sulphuric acid, the oxide of iron by succinate of am
monia, the manganese by hydrosulphuret of potash, and
the magnesia by pure soda.
XXXIV.         Observations on the singular Figure         of the Planet
    Saturn.      By  WILLIAM        HERSCHKLL,      LL.D.     F.R.S.*
 1 HERE      is not perhaps      another object in the heavens that
presents us     with such   a variety  of extraordinary phenomena
           •
              From the Traniacttoni tftkc Royal Sadtty for 1805.
                                     K2                               as

   148           Observations on the   singular Figure
   as the  planet Saturn : a magnificent globe, encompassed by
   a stupendous     double ring ; attended by seven satellites ;
   ornamented with equatorial belts ; compressed at the poles;
   turning upon its axis; mutually eclipsing its ring and satel
   lites, and eclipsed by them ; the most distant of the rings
   also turning upon its axis, and the same taking place with
   the furthest of the satellites ; all the parts of the system of
   Saturn occasionally reflecting light to each other ; the rings
   and moons illuminating the nights of the Saturnian ; the
  globe and satellites enlightening the dark parts of the rings;
   and the planet and rings throwing back the sun-s beams
  upon the moons, when they are deprived of them at the
  time of their conjunctions.
       It must be confessed that a detail of circumstances like
  these appears to leave hardly any room for addition, and
  yet the following observations will prove that there is a sin
  gularity left, which distinguishes the figure of Saturn from
  that of all the other planets.
      It has already been mentioned on a former occasion, that
- so far back as the
                         year 1/76 I perceived that the body of
  Saturn was not exactly round ; and when I found in the
  year 1781 that it was flattened at the poles at least as much
  as Jupiter, I was insensibly diverted from a more critical
  attention to the rest of the figure.       Prepossessed  with its
  being spheroidical, I measured the equatorial and polar
  diameters in the year 1 789, and supposed there could be no
  other particularity to remark in the figure of the planet.
  When I perceived a certain irregularity in other parts of the
  body, it was generally ascribed to the interference of the
  ring, which prevents a complete view of its whole contour;
  and in this error 1 might still have remained, had not a late
  examination of the powers of my 10-feet telescope con
  vinced me that I ought to rely with the greatest confidence
  upon the truth of its representations ot the most minute
 objects I inspected.
      The following observations, in which the singular figure
 of Saturn is fully investigated, contain many remarks on
 the rest of the appearancts that may be seen when this
 beautiful planet is examined with attention ; and though
 they are not immediately necessary to my present subject,
 I thought it right to retain them, as they show the degree
 of distinctness and precision of the action of the telescope,
 and the clearness of the atmosphere at the time of obser
 vation.
     April  12,  1805.    With anew 7-feet mirror of extraor
                                                            dinary

                       of the Planet Saturn.                      149
dinary distinctness, I examined the planet Saturn.               The
ring reflects more light than the body, and with a power of
570 the colour of the body becomes yellowish, while that
of the ring remains more white. This gives us an oppor
tunity to distinguish the ring from the body, in that part
where it crosses the disk, by means of the difference in the
colour of the reflected light. I saw the quintuple belt, and
the flattening of the body at the polar regions ; I could also
perceive the vacant space between the two rings.
    The flattening of the polar regions is not in that gradual
manner as with Jupiter, it seems not to begin till at a high
latitude, and there to be more sudden than it is towards
the poles of Jupiter.        I have often made the same ob
servation before, but do not remember to have recorded it
any where.
    April 18; 10-feet reflector, power 300. The air is very
favourable, and I see the planet extremely well defined.
The shadow of the ring is very black in its extent over the
disk south of the ring, where I see it all the way with great
distinctness.
    The usual belts are on the body of Saturn ; they cover a
much larger zone than the belts on Jupiter generally take
up, as may be seen in the figure I have given in Plate IX. ;
and also in a former representation of the same belts in
 1794*.
    The figure of the body of Saturn,        as I see it at present, is
certainly  different   from   the  spheroidical    figure of Jupiter.
The curvature is greatest in a high latitude.
    I took a measure of the situation of the four points of the
greatest curvature, with my angular micrometer, and power
 527.    When the cross of the micrometer passed through
 all the four points, the angle which gives the double lati
 tude of two of the points, one being north, the other south
 of the ring, or equator, was 93° 1 6'. The latitude there
 fore of the four points is 49° 38' ', it is there the greatest
curvature takes place. As neither of the cross wires can be
 in the parallel, it makes the measure so difficult to_ take,
 that very great accuracy cannot be expected.
    The most northern belt comes up to the place where the
 ring of Saturn passes behind the body, but the belt is bent
 in a contrary direction, being concave to the north, on ac
 count of its crossing the body on the side turned towards
 us, and the north pole being in view.
    There is a very dark, but narrow shadow of the body
             * See PhiL Trans. for 1794, Table VI. page 32.
                                      K  3                       upon

  1  50         Observations on the singular Figure
  upon the following part of the ring, which as it were cuts
   off the ring from the body.
      The shadow of the ring on the body, which I see south
   of the ring, grows a little broader on both sides near the
   margin of the disk.
       The division between the two rings is dark, like the va
   cant space between the ansae, but not black like the shadow
   I have described.
       There are four satellites on the preceding side near the
   ring ; the largest and another are north-preceding j the
   other two are nearly preceding.
       April 19. I viewed the planet Saturn with a new 7-feet
   telescope, both mirrors of which are very perfect.         I saw
   all the phaenomena as described last night, except the satel
   lites, which had changed their situation ; four of them
   being on the following side.      This telescope however is not
   equal to the 10-feet one.
       The remarkable figure of Saturn admits of no doubt:
   when our particular attention is once drawn to an object,
   we see things at first sight that would otherwise have
   escaped our notice.
       10-feet reflector, power 400.      The night is beautifully
   clear, and the planet near the meridian.          The fitrure of
   Saturn is somewhat like a square or rather parallelogram,
, with the four corners rounded off deeplv, but not so much
   as to bring it to a spheroid.    I see it in perfection.
       The four satellites that were last night on the preceding,
   are now on the following side, and are very bright.
       I took a measure of the position of the four points of the
   greatest curvature, and found it 91° 29'.       This gives their
   latitude 45° 44', 5.    I believe this measure to be pretty ac
   curate. I set first the fixed thread to one of the lines, by
   keeping the north -preceding        and    south-following two
   points in the thread; then adjusted the other thread in
   the same manner to the south-preceding and north-follow
   ing points.
       May 5, 1805. I directed my 20-fcet telescope to Saturn,
   and, with a power of about 300, saw the planet perfectly
   well defined, the evening being remarkably clear. The
   shadow of the ring on the body is quite black. All the other
 . phaenomena are very distinct.
       The figure of the planet is certainly not spheroidical, like
   that of Mars and Jupiter.        The curvature is less on the
    equator and on the poles than at the latitude of about 45
    degrees.    The equatorial diameter is however considerably
   greater than the polar.

                      of I he Planet Saturn   .                      151
    In order to have the testimony of all my instruments, on
the subject of the structure of the planet Saturn, I had pre-
        the 40-feet reflector for observing it in the meridian,
   used a magnifying power of 360, and saw its form ex
fared
actly as I had seen it in the 10- and 20-feet instruments.
The planet is flattened at the poles, but the spheroid that
would arise from this flattening is modified by some other
cause, which I suppose to be the attraction of the ring.       It
resembles a parallelogram, one side whereof is the equato
rial, the other the polar diameter, with the four corners
rounded off so as to leave both the equatorial and polar
regions flatter than they would be in a regular spheroidical
figure.
   The planet Jupiter being by this time got up to a consi
derable altitude, I viewed it alternately with Saturn in the
 10-feet reflector, with a power of 500. The outlines of the
figure of Saturn are as described in the observation of the
40-feet telescope ; but those of Jupiter are such as to give
a greater curvature both to the polar and equatorial regions
than takes place at the poles or equator of Saturn which are
 comparatively much flatter.
    May 12. I viewed Saturn and Jupiter alternately with
my large 10-feet telescope of 24 inches aperture : and saw
plainly that the former planet differs much in figure from
the latter.
    The temperature of the air is so changeable that no large
 mirror can act well.
    May 13.      10-feet reflector, power 300. The shadows
 of the ring upon the body, and of the body upon the ring,
are very black, and not of the dusky colour of the heavens
 about the planet, or of the space between the ring and
 planet, and between the two rings.         The north-following
 part of the ring, close to the planet, is as it were cut off by
 the shadow of the body : and the shadow of the ring lies
 south of  it, but close to the projection of the ring.
    The planet   isof the form described in the observation of
 the 40-feet telescope ;I   see itso distinctly that there can be
 no doubt of it.      By the appearance    I   should think the
 points of the greatest curvature not to be so far north as 45
degrees.
     The evemng being      very calm and clear,   I   taok   a   measure
of their situation, which gives the latitude of the greatest
curvature 45° 21'.   A second measure gives 45° 41'.
  Jupiter being now at considerable altitude, have viewed
                           a                          I
italternately with Saturn.  The figure of the two planets              is
decidedly different. The flattening at the poles and on the
                                K    4              equator

   152     Olservations on the Figure of the Planet Saturn.
   equator of Saturn is much greater than it is on Jupiter, but
  the curvature at the latitude of from 40 to 48° on Jupiter is
  less than on Saturn.
      F repeated these alternate observations many times, and
  the oftener I compared the two planets together, the more
  striking was their different structure.
      May 26. 10-feet reflector. With a parallel thread mi
  crometer and a magnifying power of 400, I took two mea
  sures of the diameter or the points of greatest curvature.   A
  mean of them gave 64,3 divisions = 1 1",98.         After this,
  I took also two measures of the equatorial diameter, and a
  mean of them gave 60,5 divisions = 1 1",27 ; but the equa
  torial measures are probably too small.
     To judge by a view of the planet, I should suppose the
 latitude of the greatest curvature to he less than 45 degrees.
 The eye will also distinguish the difference in the three dia
 meters of Saturn.       That which passes through the points
 of the greatest curvature is the largest ; the equatorial the
 next, and the polar diameter is the smallest.
     May 27- The evening being very favourable, I took
 again two measures of the diameter between the points of
 greatest curvature, a mean of which was 63,8 divisions
  s= 1 1",88.    Two measures of the equatorial diameter gave
 61,3 divisions = 1 1",44.
     June 1. It occurred to me that a more accurate measure
 might be had of the latitude in which the greatest curvature
 takes place, by setting the fixed thread of the micrometer
 to the direction of the ring of Saturn, which may be done
 with great accuracy. The two following measures were
 taken m this manner, and are more satisfactory than I had
 taken before. The first gave the latitude of the south-pre
 ceding point of greatest curvature 43° 20'; and the second
 43° 13'.     A mean of the two will be 43° CO-.
    June 2. I viewed Jupiter and Saturn alternately with a
 magnifying power of only 300, that the convexity of the
 eye-glass might occasion no deception, and found the form
 of the two planets to differ in the manner that has been
 described.
    With 200 I saw the difference very plainly ; and even
with 160 it was sufficiently visible to admit of no doubt.
These low powers show the figure of the planets perfectly
well, for as the field of view is enlarged, and the motion of
the objects in passing it lessened, we are more at liberty to
fix our attention upon them.
    I compared the telescopic appearance of Saturn with a
figure drawn by the measures I have taken, combined with
                                                             the

               On the Contraction    of Water       by Heat .           153
the proportion between the equatorial and polar diameters
determined in the year 1789*; and found that, in order to
be a perfect resemblance, my figure required some small
reduction of the longest diameter, so as to bring it nearly
to agree with the measures taken the 27th of May.       When
I had made the necessary alteration, my artificial Saturn
was again compared with the telescopic representation of the
planet, and I was then satisfied that it had all the correct
ness pf which a judgment of the eve is capable.     An exact
 copy of it is given in Plate VII. The dimensions of it in
proportional parts are,
     The diameter of the greatest curvature     -      36
     The equatorial diameter         -          -     35
     The polar diameter          -       -      -      32
     Latitude of the longest diameter    -        43° 2</
   The foregoing observations of the figure of the body of
Saturn, will lead to some intricate researches, by which the
quantity of matter in the ring, and its solidity, may be in
some measure ascertained. They also afford a new instance
of the effect of gravitation on the figure of planets ; for in
the case of Saturn, we shall have to consider the opposite
influence of two centripetal and two centrifugal forces : the
rotation of both the ring and planet having been ascertained
in some of my former papers.
XXXV.          Experiments and Observations upon the Contrac
   tion   of   Water by Heat at low Temperatures. By Thomas
   Charles Hope, M.D. F.R.S. Edin.,                            Professor   of
   Chemistry in the University         of Edinburgh*.
 A o   the generallaw, that bodies are expanded by heat, and
contracted by cold, water at the point of congelation, and
for some degrees of temperature above               it,
                                             seems to afford               a
very singular and   curious exception.
   The circumstances of this remarkable anomaly have been
for some time believed to be the following                :
   When heat      applied to water ice-cold, or at tempera
                   is                                              a
ture not far distant,     causes
                          it       diminution in the bulk of
                                      a
the fluid.  The  water   contracts, and continues to contract,
with the augmentation of temperature, till        reaches the it
   * See Phil. Trans for 1790, p.17.
 t     From the Transactions of the Royal Society    of Edinburgh, part ii. of
 vol. v.
                                                                        40th

1 54       On the Contraction   of Water ly Heat.
40th or 41st degree.      Between this point and the 4 2d or
43d, it suffers scarcely any perceptible change ; but when
heated beyond the last-mentioned degree it begins to ex
pand, and increases in volume with every subsequent rise
of temperature.
    During the abstraction of caloric, the peculiarity in the
constitution of water equally appears.        Warm water, as it
cools, shrinks, as other bodies do, till it arrives at the tem
perature of 43° or 42°. It then suffers a loss of two degrees
without any alteration of density. But when further cooled,
it begins to dilate, and continues to dilate, as the tempera
ture falls, till congelation actually commences, whether this
occurs as soon as the water reaches the 32d degree, or after
it has descended any number of degrees below it.
    Supposing this peculiarity of water to be established, it
must appear, indeed, a very odd circumstance, that heat
should produce contraction in this fluid, while it causes
expansion in other bodies ; and no less strange, that within
one range of temperature it should contract, and in another
expand, the very same substance. Before a deviation from
 so general a law should be received as matter of fact, the
 proofs of its existence ought to be clear and indisputable.
    The experiments hitherto published, from which this sin
 gularity has been deduced, have all of them been performed
 upon water contained in instruments shaped like a thermo
 meter glass, and consisting of a ball with a slender stem ;
 and the expansive or contractive effects of heat and cold have
 been inferred from the ascent or descent of the fluid in the
 stem.
    To such experiments it has been objected, that the di
 mensions and capacity of the instrument undergo so much
 change, from variation of temperature, that it is difficult,
 if not impossible, to determine how much of the apparent
 anomaly ought to be imputed to such changes, and that it
 is not improbable that the whole of it may be ascribed to
 them.
     The object of this paper, which I have now the honour to
  read to the society, is to prove, by a set of experiments,
  conducted in a manner altogether different, that the com
  mon opinion is founded in truth, and that water presents
  itself as that strange and unaccountable anomaly which I
  have already described.
     It is worth while, before detailing my experiments, to
  give a short account of those observations which led to the
  discovery of the fact, and which in succession have extended
  our knowledge of   it,   as well as of those observations which

              On the Contraction      of Water       by   Heat.              155
have at different periods been    offered to discredit, and to
bring  it into doubt.
   The first observation relative to this subject was made by
Dr. Croune, towards the close of the 1 7th century, while
engaged in investigating the phaenomena       of the great and
forcible, though familiar, expansion which happens to water
at the instant of freezing ; a matter which occupied, in a
considerable degree, the attention of his fellow-members
of the Royal Society of London in the earlier years of that
institution.
    I shall relate, in his own words, his first observation : —
" I filled a strong bolt-head about half way up the stem
 with water, a day or two before the great frost went off,
marking the place where the water stood ; and placing it
in the snow on my leads, while I went to put some salt to
the snow, I found it above the mark so soon, that I thought
the mark had slipt down, which I presently raised to the
 water, and as soon as ever I mixed the salt with the snow,
 the water rose very fast, about one-half inch above it.       I
 took up then the glass, and found the water all fluid stil] :
 it was again set down in the salt and snow ; but when I
 came, about an hour after, to view            it,
                                         the ball was broken,
 and the water turned to hard ice, both in the ball and
stem*."
   From this experiment Dr. Croune drew the conclusion,
that water, when subjected to cold, actually began to ex
                                   On announcing            how        it,
pand before     began to freeze.
                it
ever, to the Royal Society, on the 6th of February 1683,
Dr. Hooke immediately expressed strong doubts, and as
cribed the ascent of the water in the neck of the vessel to
the shrinking of the glass occasioned       the cold.by
   To obviate this objection, and to preclude, as far as was
possible, the influence of the change of capacity in the ap
paratus from an alteration of its temperature,         bolt-head  a
was immersed in      mixture of salt and snow, and into
                       a                                                       it,
when cooled, was poured, to        certain height, water pre
                                        a
viously brought to near the freezing point.      The water be
gan instantly to rise as before, and when         had ascended
                                                          it
about one-fourth of an inch in the stem, the vessel was
taken out, the whole water remaining fluid.
   These experiments, supported        others of
                                             by       similar na
                                                               a
ture, communicated          by
                          Dr. Slare to the society   on  the 20th
 of the same month, appear to have satisfied       its members,
jn general, of this fact, that water, when on the point of
          •   Birch's History of the Royal Society, vol. iv.   p.   263.
                                                                    congealing,

 156         On the Contraction      of Water ly Heat.
concealing, and while stilt fluid, is actually somewhat di
lated previous to the remarkable expansion which accom
panies its conversion into ice.
   Dr. Hooke, however, continued unshaken, and retained
the doubts he had expressed.
   Remarkable as the tact, as now stated, must have ap
peared, it seems not to have excited particular attention, nor
to have solicited more minute examination;       and, indeed,
though philosophers did not lose sight of it, yet far near a
century no one investigated it more carefully.     Mai ran, in
his Treatise on Ice in I 749, and Du Crest in his Disserta
tion on Thermometers in 1757, appear to be well aware of
this property of water ; but it is to M. de Luc that we owe
the knowledge of the leading and more interesting circum
stances.  (Vide Rc-cherclies, fccc. 1772.)
   Having devoted his attention to the examination and im
provement of the thermometer, he was naturally led to the
investigation while engaged in ascertaining the phaenomena
of the expansion   and contraction     of different fluids by   heat
and cold.
   He employed     in his experiments thermometer glasses ;
and the included   water, at or near the term of liquefaction,
descended in the   stem, and appeared to him to suffer a di
minution of bulk by every increase of temperature till            it.
arrived at the 41°.     From this point its volume increased
with its temperature, and        ascended in the tube.
                                it                         This
fluid, when heated and allowed to cool, seemed to him to
contract in the ordinary way, till its temperature sunk to
the 41°, but to expand and increase in volume as the tem
perature fell to the freezing point.
   The density of water, he thence inferred,       at its maxi
                                                       is
mum at 41°, and decreases with equal certainty whether
the temperature  is elevated or depressed.
   M. de Luc says, indeed, that very nearly the same altera
tion iu volume   is  occasioned in water of temperature 41°,
by   avariation of any given number of degrees of tempera
ture, whether they be of increase or of diminution and      ;
consequently, that the density of water at temperature 50°,
and at temperature 32°,    is the same.
   This philosopher did not conceive that the constitution
of water, in relation to caloric, undergoes change at the
                                                   a
temperature of 41°, such that short of this degree caloric
should occasion contraction, and beyond       expansion.
                                              it            He
imagined that heat    inall temperatures tends to produce two,
but quite opposite, effects on this fluid, the one expansion,
the other contraction.
         3                                                       In

                 On the Contraction   of Water       by   Heat.   157
   In low temperatures, the contractive effects surpass the
expansive, and contraction is the consequence : in tempe
ratures beyond 41°, the expansive predominate, and the vi
sible expansion is the excess of the expansive operation over
the contractive.
    In 178S sir Charles Blagden added the curious observa
tions, that water, which bv slow and undisturbed refrigera
tion permits its temperature to fall many degrees below its
freezing point, perseveres in expanding gradually as the
temperature declines ; and that water, having some muriate
of soda, or sea salt, dissolved in        it,
                                        begins to expand about
the same number of degrees above its own term of congela
tion that the expansion of pure water precedes its freezing,
that    is,
          between eight and nine degrees.     More lately (Phi
losophical Transactions 1801), he, or rather Mr. Gilpin by
hii direction, endeavoured to ascertain,              by
                                                the balance and
weighing-bottle, the amount of this change of density caused
 bya   few degrees of temperature.
    Every one must be familiar with the use which count
Rumford has made of this peculiarity in the constitution of
water, in explaining many curious appearances that pre
sented themselves in his experiments upon the conducting
power of fluids, and in accounting for certain remarkable
natural occurrences.     The count, with his usual ingenuity,
has endeavoured to point out the important purposes which
this peculiarity serves in the ceconomy of nature, and to
assign the final cause of so remarkable an exception from           a
general law.
    In recording the observations and opinions that have been
published concerning this point,         might now, in order,
                                           I
notice those of Mr. Dalton,      of Manchester,   related in the
fifth volume of the   Manchester    Memoirs,   which   tended to
confirm and enlarge our knowledge of it. But as Mr. Dalton
himself has called in question the accuracy of the conclu
sions which had been drawn from his experiments, and from
those of preceding observers,     Ishall only remark, that they
are  of  the same nature,  and nearly to the same purport, as
those   of M. de Luc.
  It    was in consequence of      communication with which
                                      a
Mr. Dalton favoured me, three months ago, that my at
tention was directed to this subject.     He informed me, that
after   long
        a     train of experiments   he was   led to believe that
he,  and  his predecessors  in the  same  field of investigation,
had fallen into     mistake
                     a       with  regard  to the contraction of
water       by
          heat, and its expansion               by
                                      cold, in consequence
of overlooking or underrating the effect which the change
                                                                    in

  148         On the Contraction   of Water ly Heat.
 in   the capacity of the thermometer-shaped apparatus em
 ployed, must occasion on the apparent volume of the fluid.
 He stated, in general terms, that on. subjecting water to
-different degrees of temperature, in instruments made of
 different materials, he found the point of greatest density
 was indicated at a different temperature in each.
     fn an apparatus, having a ball of earthen ware, it was at
 the 34th degree ; of glass at the 42d ; of brass at the 46th ;
 and of lead at the 50th. And as water could not follow a
 different law, according to the nature of the substance of
 the instrument, he conceived that the appearance of ano
 maly in this fluid originated entirely in the containing ves
 sel, which must cause the ffuid in the stem to fall or rise
 according as its expansions are greater or less than those of
 the included liquor.
     A detail of these important experiments has, ere now,
 been transmitted for publication in the Journals of the Royal
  Institution of London.
     I have already noticed that -Dr. Hooke endeavoured to
 explain in the same manner the original experiment of Dr.
  Croune.     This explanation apparently gathers much force
 from these experiments of Mr. Dalton.
     It is proper, however, to state, that M. de Luc was per
 fectly aware of the alteration in the dimensions of his glass
 apparatus, but deemed the change too trifling to have any
 material influence.
     Sir Charles Blagden paid greater attention to the circum
  stance, and by calculation attempted to appreciate what
 allowance ought to be made for the change of capacity in
  the amount of the apparent changes of volume.
     When it is considered that the whole amount of the ap
  parent change is but very small, and that the expansibility
  of the glass is with difficulty ascertained, and is variable by
  reason of the fluctuating proportions of its heterogeneous
  constituents, it must be acknowledged that precision in such
  a calculation cannot possibly be attained, and can scarcely
  be approached.      On this account, all -the experiments al
  ready  noticed  are  open to the explanation of Dr. Hooke,
  and in some measure liable to the objection which he had
  urged.    I confess that the experiments of Mr. Dalton, in
  perfect concurrence with that explanation, created consi
  derable doubts respecting the existence of the peculiarity of
  water; against the probability of which circumstance, all
  analogical reasoning, and every argument d priori, strongly
  militate.
     Unwilling to remain in uncertainty, and considering it
                                                               as

              On the Contraction   of Water ly Heat.           159
as a point   of much curiosity and interest, I have endeavoured
to investigate the subject by experiments conducted in a to
tally different manner, equally calculated to exhibit the sin
gular truth, but free from the objections to which the others
are liable.       In them, it was my object to provide, that
neither the changes of the actual volume of the water, nor
the alterations in the dimensions of the instrument, should
have any influence whatever.
     I have already taken occasion to state, that the purpose
 of this paper is to prove, by experiments on the principle
now mentioned, that in the constitution of water there
really exists the singularity often noticed.
     I shall first state the plan of the expi. \cnts, and then
 detail the particulars of the most remarkable of them.
     When any body is dilated, whether by heat or cold, it
 necessarily becomes less dense, or specifically lighter; and
 the opposite effects result from contraction.         This is the
 circumstance, as every one knows, which causes various
 movements among the particles of fluids, when any ine
 quality of temperature prevails in the mass; hence these
 particles are little acquainted with a state of rest.
   If    a partial application or subtraction of heat produce an
 inequality of density in a mass of fluid, the lighter parts
 rise to \he surface, or the denser fall to the bottom.
      It readily occurred, that I might avail myself of these
 movements, and upon statical principles determine the
  question in dispute.
      I had only to examine attentively water, as it was heated
 or cooled in a jar, and to observe, by means of thermome
 ters, what situation the warmer, and what the cooler parts
  of this il aid affected.
      If I should find that ice-cold water, in acquiring tempe
  rature, showed, in its whole progress, the warmer parts near
  the top, it would indicate that water follows the usual law,
  and is expanded like other bodies by heat.
      Or if I should observe that warm water, in cooling to the
  freezing point, had (he coldest portion uniformly at the
  bottom, the same conclusion would follow ; while a dif
  ferent inference, and the existence of the supposed anomaly,
  would be deducible should the event prove different. The
  only circumstance I can figure to myself as tending in any
  measure to render this mode of examining- the point doubt
  ful,  is, that water near its congealing point may have so
  little change of density occasioned     bya   small variation of
  temperature, that its particles may be prevented        by  their
  inertia, or  by   the tenacity of the circumfluent mass, from
                                                         assuming

  160          On the Contraction    of  Water ly Heat.
 assuming that situation which their specific gravity would
 allot to them.
    It will appear, however, very clear, from the circumstances
 of the experiments which I shall immediately detail, that no
 obstacle to the success and precision of the experiments
 proceeded from this source.
    It is not necessarv for me to relate all the experiments I
 have made.        I shall restrict myself to the detail of six,
 which present varieties in the modes of procedure, and
 which afford the most striking results.
                            Experiment     I.
    I filled a cylindrical jar of glass 8£ inches deep, and 4£
 in diameter, with water of temperature 32°, and placed it
 on a table, interposing a considerable thickness of matter
 possessed    of little power of conducting heat. I suspended
 two thermometers in the fluid, nearly in the axis of the jar,
 one with its ball about half an inch from the bottom, the
 other at the same distance below the surface.       The jar was
freely exposed to the air of the room, the temperature of
which was from 60° to 62°.
    The experiment commenced at noon :
                                  Top Thermom.     Bottom do.
                                        32°      -    32°
           In 10 minutes,        -      33+      -    34 +
          —   30                 -      35-5     -    37
           —  50                        37       -    38 +
          —   an hour,           -      38       -    38 +
                       and 10 minutes 4 2        -    38-25
                           3O           44       -    40
                           50           46+      -    41 +
          — 2 hours    and 10 minutes 48         -    42*5
                           30           50       -    44
                           50           50•5     -    45
          —   4 hours                  54             49
    Confiding in the indications of the thermometers, from
this experiment, we learn, that when heat flows on all
sides from the ambient air into a column of ice-cold water,
the warmer portions of the fluid actually descend, and take
possession of the bottom of the vessal.
   This downward course proclaims an increased density,
and testifies that the cold water is contracted by heat.      As
soon, however, as the fluid at the bottom exhibits a tem
perature of 38°, this course is retarded and soon stopped,
and with the rise of temperature beyond 40° is totally
changed : for when the mass attains this degree, the expe
                                                          riment

              On the Contraction     of Water   by Heat.         161
riment equally shows, that the warmer fluid ascends and
occupies the summit, by its route announcing its dimi
nished density, and proving that water is now expand
ed by heat.
                             'Experiment  II.
   I filled  the same    jar with water of temperature 53°; and
that   I  might observe the phenomena of cooling,          I placed
it in the axis of a much larger cylindrical vessel, nearly full
of water, of temperature 41°, arid, by an earthen-ware
support, raised it about three inches from the bottom,
taking care that the water should be on the same level in
both vessels.      As soon as I had adjusted the two thermo
meters, as in the former experiment, I observed that the
top of the fluid was still at 53°, but the bottom had fallen
to 49°.
                                      Top.         Bottom.
                In    9 minutes       52°     -      45
                —    15               52      -      44
Now, to accelerate the cooling, I withdrew by a syphon
the water from the large cylinder, and supplied its place by
ice-cold water, mixed with fragments of ice, which by
repeated cautious agitation was kept uniformly at the tem
perature    of  32°.
                In   23 minutes       48°     -      42 +
                —   38  -<            44      -      40
                —                             -
                _   43
                    46
                                      42
                                      40      -
                                                     40
                                                     40
                —   52                36      -      40
                —   58                35—     -      39
                —   65                34      -      37
                —    75               34      -      36
                —  103                34      -      34
   This experiment is the counterpart of the foregoing, and
from the testimony of the same instruments, it appears!,
that when a cylinder of water of 53° is cooled by circum
fluent iced fluid, the colder part of the water takes posses
sion of the bottom of the vessel, so as to establish a dif
ference of temperature from the surface, amounting some
times to 8°. And that as soon as the fluid at the bottom
arrives at the 40th degree, the temperature of the fluid in
that situation is stationary till the surface reaches the same
point.
   During the subsequent refrigeration, the progress of the
cooling undergoes a total change. The thermometers telT
that the colder fluid rises to the surface ; so that the top
   Vol. 23. No. 90. Nov. 1805.             L                   gets

 162          OIL the Contraction   of Water ly Heat.
gets the start of the bottom soon by 4°, and attains the
lowest temperature of 34° very long before the other fall*
to the same degree.
    These circumstances, I think, lead to the conclusion,
thai by the loss of caloric, water at 53° is contracted and
rendered      specifically heavier, and that this continues to
happen till the water come to the temperature of 40°, at
which period an opposite effect is produced ; for now the
water, as it cools, becomes specifically lighter, or is ex
 panded.
    In this, as well as the former experiment, the complete
 change in the situation, which the warmer and colder parts
 of the flp.iid affected, in the progress both of the heating
 and cooling, while every external circumstance of the pro
 cess continued unaltered, is particularly worthy of remark.
                            Experiment   III.
    I took a glass jar, 1 7- 8 inches deep, and 4-5 in diameter,
 internal measure, having a neck and tubulature very near
 the bottom.       I provided also a cylindrical bason of tinned
 iron, 4*8 inches deep, and 10 inches in diameter, with a
 circular hole in the middle of the bottom,, large enough to
 receive the top of the jar.         By means of a collar and ce
 ment I secured this bason,, so that it encircled the upper
 part of the jar.
    The object of the contrivance was to have the means of
 applying a cooling medium to the superior portion of a
 cylinder of water, and it answered the purpose completely.
 I introduced the ball of a thermometer through the tubula-
 ture, till the extremity of it nearly reached the axis at
 three-fourths of an inch above the rising of the "bottom,
 nnd having fixed it in this situation, I rendered the aperture
 water-tight, by a perforated cork and lute.
     This very tall jar was placed on a table, with the inter
 position of some folds of thick paper, in a room without
 a fire, of the temperature 42°.
     I filled it with water of 50', and poured into the bason,
 which embraced the top, a mixture of powdered ice ani
 salt.
     From time to time I explored the temperature near the
 surface, by inserting the bulb of a thermometer to th$
 depth of half an inch nearly in the axis.
                      Bottom.    Top.      Air.
  One o-clock           50°       50°     42°
  In 1 1 minutes        46- +     —
 —    15                 45       48
                                                               la

                On the Contraction         of Water       by   Heat,         1 63
                         Bottom.      Top.
 ta                               —        —
 —
      21
      31
            minutes
                    -        44
                             42
                                      46
                                      44
 —    41                     41       42
                                           rAt     this time    a   thin film of
—     51                     40' +    34   < ice began to form         in contact
                                           (.with the glass.
—     1    hour 6 min. 40             34
               20      39.5
               44      39.5
                                             r"A crust of iceof some thick
— 4i        hours            39.5          's ness now lined the glass,
                                           (.and air had fallen to 40°.
                             39
—     if —,i.e.\                           Crust   of ice complete.
          at midnightJ
-19              ,ue.\                     Air 40°.
      next mormng        J
                                             'Air 40°. So much ice had
—     26                     40*            J melted that the cake was
•—    32 —   —               40              J detached    from the side      of
                                            jhe vessel, and floated.
—     41        >            40            Air 41°. Ice not all melted.
—     50—                    41            Air 42°. Ice not entirely gone.
    This long protracted experiment presents some striking
 facts, and its general import, with regard to the subject of
 investigation, agrees with the preceding.      In it we see,
 that when the fngorific mixture abstracted caloric from the
 upper extremity of a cylinder of water, nearly 18 inches
 long, and at 50°, the reduction of temperature appeared
 sooner, and advanced quicker at its lower extremity than
in the axis at the top, not two and a half inches distant
 from the cooling power.      No one can entertain a doubt
that this is owing to a current of cooled and condensed
fluid descending, and a corresponding one of a warmer
temperature ascending. Now, if water observed the same law
 that other bodies do, and had no peculiarity of constitution,
the same progress of cooling should continue.            This,
however, trie experiment teaches us, is not the case: as
soon as the fluid at the bottom exhibits a temperature of
40°, it ceases. The colder fluid remains at top, and, quick
ly losing temperature, ere long begins to freeze. The con
tinuance of the colder fluid at the surface surely denotes,
that it is not more dense than the subjacent warmer water.
The legitimate inference from this        that water of tem
                                                   is,
perature 40°     not contracted by being cooled to 32°.
                    is
                                      L2                                   Did

164            0«   the Contraction   of Water ly Heal.
   Did water observe the usual law, and lose volume along
with temperature, this experiment, by its long duration,
afforded ample time for the manifestation of it.
   For not less than two days did ice-cold water maintain
possession of the top, and for the same period the temperature
at the bottom never fell below 39°.       No current, there
fore, of cold and condensed fluid moved from the surface,
to affect the inferior thermometer, or to attest the con
 traction of water by cold.
    This experiment, however, I must remark, does not
 warrant the conclusion, tfifct the water is actually expand
ed, though it in no degree opposes it. It proves no more,
 than that the contraction ceases at 40°; and that water of
 3-2° is not more dense than of 39° or 40^.    Nay, some may
 perchance allege, that it does not prove so much ; con
ceiving, that if at 40° the contraction, without ceasing al
 together, becomes very inconsiderable, the difference of
 density occasioned by the subsequent reduction of tem
 perature may be so very trifling, as not to enable the cold
 particles to take that situation which their gravity assigns to
 them, in opposition to the inertia and tenacity of the sub
jacent mass ; and therefore that the colder, though heavier
 fluid, may be constrained to remain above.       That this al
 legation should have no weight attached to              it,
                                                    the circum
 stances of the succeeding experiment will clearly show, as
1   shall soon notice.
    Before quitting the consideration of the present experi
 ment,    itmay be worth while to remark, that        may seem
                                                            it
 rather surprising, that the bottom of the fluid was not ap
 parently affected in its temperature          by
                                          the ice which so long
 occupied   its surface.    It
                             might be expected, though no cold
 currents descended from above, that the caloric should be
 conducted from below, and that the temperature should
 by  that have been reduced*.         suppose that the caloric
                                       I
                                                             did
   • This
             experiment may perhaps be thought to give countenance to the
opinion of the very ingemous Count Rumford, that fluid* cannot conduct
heat, and that no interchange of heat can take place between the particles
of bodies in fluid state, teeing that for two days the fluid at the bottom of
               a
the vessel never fell below 39°, though the surface was at 32°.
   From the circumstances detailed in his seventh essay, the Count conclu-^
ded, that heat cannot descend in a fluid. From the present,    it might witli
equal justice be iuferred, that heat cannot ascend.
   Had not the fullest conviction that this celebrated philosopher has push*
      I
ed bis ideiis too far,
                     I  might be disposed to consider this experiment as ac
cording well with the hypothesis.
   Soon after the interesting speculations of the Count appeared,    began to
                                                                    I,
investigate the subject; and, oy nretty long train of experiments, which
                                 a                                        I
have annuoUr taken an opportumty of detailing in my lecture;, satisfied
                                                                        myself

                  On the Contraction         of Water    by Heat.           IC5
did pass from the lower strata upwards, but extremely
slowly, by reason that fluids, as Count Rumford taught
                                                                             us,
myself that he assigned to fluidity      a character that does not belong to it.
Though since the date of these experiments, the public has become possessed
of several series, well devised, and, in my opinion, of themselves conclusive,
it may yet be worth while to state the tenor and result of them, by which
the value of their testimony in favour of the conducing power of liquid*
may be estimated.
     The experiments were of two descriptions.
     The one set, of the same nature nearly with those of Count Rumford,
was designed to examine, Whether heat, when applied to the surface, can
descend in a fluid; and the other, to discover, Whether, on the mixture of
different portions of fluid at different temperatures, an interchange of caloric
takes place between the particles ;— Water, oil, and mercury, having besa
the subjects of the Count's experiments, were employed for the first set.
     To explore the conducting power of water and oil, the apparatus which I
used consisted of two vessels of tinned iron, both cylindrical, and the one
somewhat larger than the other. The larger had a diameter of eleven inches,
and into it were poured the subjects of the trial, to different depths on dif
ferent occasions.       The smaller was ten and a half inches in diameter. By
three hooks it was suspended within the larger pan, in such a manner that
 the bottom of it exactly reached and came in contact with the surface of
 the fluid. This smaller vessel became the source of the heat, by being filled
 with boiling hot water. The water was changed frequently, care being
 taken to avoid, by the use of a syphon, all agitation and disturbance.
      In experiments of this nature, the difficulty is to prevent the conveyance
 of caloric by the sides of the vessel. I attempted, and, 1 think, I succeeded,
 in overcoming this difficulty, by encircling the larger vessel, at a height ex
 actly corresponding with that of the surface of the fluid within, with a gut
 ter or channel about half an inch in depth ; and by causing a stream of cold
 water to flow constantly through a syphon into this gutter, while from the
  opposite side it ran off by a small spout.
      The water was several degrees colder than the subject of the experiment ;
  and keeping cool the portion of the vessel with which it was in contact, it
  intercepted the heat that would otherwise have travelled by this route to the
 bottom.
      For mercury I had recourse to vessels of glass.
      In all the experiments a thermometer bore testimony that the caloric de
 scended from the surface to the bottom of the fluid, and demonstrated, at
  least to my conviction, that fluids can conduct heat.
      The progress of the heat, however, was very slow, and attested the im
  portant fact, for which we ought to be thankful to the Count, — That fluids
  are very bad conductors.
       The second set of experiments was calculated to examine, in a very dif
  ferent manner, the position. That all interchange and communication of heat
   between the particles of fluids is impossible.
       When a hot and a cold fluid are mixed together and well agitated, very
  soon an uniform temperature is produced. This equality mint proceed cither
   from a communication of heat from the warmer to the colder fluid, agree
   ably to the common opinion, or from a perfect intermixture of hot and cold
  particles, according to the notion of Count Rumford.         To which cause it
   ought to be attributed, I conceived I might discover, by ascertaining whc..
  ther, after such an intermixture, any separation of the hot and cold por
   tions took place.    If the equilibrium of temperature be owing to intermix
  ture without iuterchange of caloric, the hotter particles, as soon as the agita.
 -tion ceases, ought, by reason of their greater rarity, to accumulate to a cer
   tain degree, at the sutface, and there exhibit a temperature above the com
   mon OIiC.
                                           L3                                I fixrt

1 66          On the Contraction         of IVater ly Heat.
us, are excessively bad conductors of heat, and so very
slowly, that the caloric entered from the atmosphere with
sufficient quickness to prevent any depression of tempera
ture below the 39th degree.
   This experiment, I may conclude with remarking, ia
very well calculated to exhibit the error of the popular
opinion, that " heat has a tendency to ascend,"
                             Experiment         IV.
    Itook the same tall jar, and stopping the tubulature
with  a cork, I filled it with water of temperature 40°, and
placed it in a pan.    After suspending two thermometers,
as in experiment first and second, I poured a mixture of
ice and salt into the pan, to the depth of 4-2 inches, the
air of the room being 40°, as in the last experiment.
    I first tried water, and mixing this fluid boiling hot, with an equal quanti-
ty nearly ice-cold, in a stoppered glass jar, I shook them well for a short
time.
    I then noticed the remitting temperature, and raising the ball of the ther
mometer towards the surface, I had an opportunity of observing, that it
never rose the smallest portion of a degree above the common temperature
which had been established.
    I next made a similar experiment with alcohol, selecting it on account of
its remarkable disability.        I shook well, for half a minute, a mixture of
equal parts of alcohol ct temperature 40° and at temperature 170°. The re
sulting temperature of the mass was 104°.
     Now. if this was a mixture of particles at 40° and at 17-- . - the difference
 of specific gravity between the fluid at these temperatures is very consider
 able, some separation of the warmer and lighter particles from the others,
 ought, I conceive, to have taken place. The temperature of the top, bow*
 ever, never indicated thr arrival of wanner particles. It never ascended
 above the point of equilibrium.
   -From these experiments 1 concluded, that the uniformity of temperature
 was established by an actual communication and interchange of heat be
tween the particles.
     It may not, however, be improper to state, that Count Rumford, with
 whom several years ago I had the pleasure of conversing upon this subject,
 •lleged, that the intermixture might be so complete as to prevent any sepa
 ration whatever.
     If it be a property essential to fluidity, that heat cannot pass from one
 particle to another, the particles of different fluids ought tote equally in
 capable of imparting caloric mutually to each other. Unfortunately,          how-
 aver, for the speculation, the caloric is so communicated.     Though, priori,
                                                                           .':
I  entertained no doubts respecting the result of the experiment,    I   poured a
 quantity of olive oil which had been heated by immersion in           a  vessel of
 boiling water for half an hour, upon an equal volume of water of 38°, and
 agitated the mixture, by shaking for       a   quarter of a minute. The com
 mon temperature produced was 78°, and the heat had gone from the oil
 into the water for when the fluids separated, and had arranged themselves
               ;
 according to their specific gravity, both of them had the same temperature of
78".
    The experiments of the two descriptions now recorded, left PQ my mind
little doubt thkt the Count had overstrained hit conclusions,
                                                                           Eleven

              On the Contraction of Water by Heat.           167
                                 Bottom.    Top.      Air.
            Eleven o'clock        40°        40°      40°
             In 10 minutes        38+        38 +
            —    20         •     38—        38 —
            —   30                37—        37 —
            — 40                  36        36
            —   60                35.3       35.5
            —    80               35         35
             — 100                34.5      35
             — 120                34—       34
            —     8 hours         34—        34
    A crust of ice began to form on the inside of the glass
when the water in the axis of the bottom and of the top
was at 36°.      In the course of the experiment, it became at
least an inch thick.
    We learn from this experiment, that cold applied to the
lower part of a cylinder of water, nearly 18 inches long,
and having the temperature       of 40°, is actually as speedily
perceived at the summit as in the axis of that part, on the
external surface of which it immediately acts.         As fluids
conduct heat so very tardily, this can only arise from cur
rents of cooled water ascending from the bottom, and these
cold currents could not move upwards, were not the water of
them specifically lighter than that of the incumbent warmer
 fluid.
    The water, therefore, which at the bottom is cooled by
the contiguous frigorific mixture, must be expanded by the
loss of caloric.
    This experiment secures full force to the last, as it ob
viates the objection already noticed, and also precludes
another.      I have already stated, that it may perhaps be al
leged, that the fluid at the top, in experiment third, though
cooled to 32° did not descend, because below 40° the con
 traction is so trifling, that it does not occasion a difference
of specific gravity sufficiently great to cause the particles to
descend, when opposed by the inertia and tenacity of the
 fluid through which they have to fall ; or it may be con
 ceived, that the descent is so tardy, that time is given to the
 ambient air or subjacent fluid to furnish heat enough to
 raise the temperature of the descending stream, and by that
 arrest it in its downward ceurse.
    But from the particulars above recorded, it is manifest,
that the change of density between the temperature of 32°
and 40° is quite sufficient to put into motion the particles,
and to enable them to overcome the obstacle arising from
inertia and tenacity, and to withstand the arresting effects
of atmospheric heat.
                                  L4                     Though

1 68           On the Contraction         of Water         liy   Heal.
    Though these experiments, and some others of         similar         a
 nature, carried conviction to my mind, and perfectly satis
 fied me respecting the reality of the anomaly of water,                          I
 determined to vary somewhat the mode of making the ex
 periment, so as to obtain still more striking results.
     For the, fifth experiment,       used an apparatus   which
 consisted of still taller jar.
                    a                     It I
                                      was 2I inches high, and                     4
 in diameter.       adjusted at the middle of its height
                    I                                       per              a
forated bason of tinned iron,       inches in depth, and 10 in
                                          2
 diameter. As this bason embraced the middle of the jar,
I   could,     by
              filling    with hot water, or frigorific mixture,
                          it                            a
apply heat or cold to the middle portion of the fluid in the
jar, and thence,              by
                          the thermometer, learn what course
 the heated or cooled fluid should take.
                                   Experiment     V.
 I    filled the jar with water at 32°.    placed   upon seve
                                                    I              it
ral folds of thick carpet, previously cooled to the same de
gree.      The air of the room going from 33° to 35°,    intro           I
duced two thermometers, as in experiments first and se
cond.      I then poured water of temperature 68° into the
bason, and          by
                  means of spout arising from the side of
                                     a                                            it,
and    a syphon connected with        reservoir of water at the
                                              a
temperature now mentioned,         renewed the contents .of the
                                         I
bason frequently, but without causing any agitation.
                      Bottom.    Top.       Air.
At commencement 32°              32°        33 — 35
                               35         32
                               36—        32
                                   36+    32
                               37          33
                               38          33      *** From          this time    I
                               38+         33       charged            with
                                                                  the bason
                               39—         33       water     of temperature
                               39+         44       88°,   and renewed  fre- it
—    55                        39+         45       quently.
—    60                        39+         48
     Nothing    can be more decisive             with regard to the question
in dispute, than              of this experiment. Heat
                         the particulars
isapplied to the middle of   column of ice-cold water.
                                         a
The heated portion has an equal share of the column of
cold fluid above   and beneath it.
                         it          There    nothing to de  is
termine its course in one direction or another, excepting its
actual change of density.
   The thermometer evinces that the warm current sets
downwards, and carries the increased temperature to the
bottom.    There, this instrument indicates the successive
                                                         rbe

                  On the Contraction     of Water    by Heat.             169
rise of several degrees, before the surface indicates the
smallest acquisition of heat.     -
   The inference is plain, that the cold water is contracted
by the heat.
   The change of the effect of heat is equally well illustra
ted by this experiment.
   No sooner did. the inferior portion attain the temperature
of 39°, than the heated fluid altered its course, and, by
ascending, carried the increase of temperature very rapidly
to the surface, so that it soon surpassed the bottom, and
continued to rise, while the other remained stationary.
                             Experiment        VI.
       I
    filled the jar used in the last experiment with water of
temperature 30£°, the air and the support being at 390.
Disposing the thermometers in the usual manner, I intro
duced a mixture of snow and salt into the bason.
                               Bottom.       Air.
                                              Top.
 At commencement                39-539-5     39"
 In 10 minutes                  39 +38 +
 — 25                           39 +36-5 *#* At this time ice
 — 35                           39  36-           began    to be
 — 55                           39  35            formed on the
 — an hour and 10 min. 39 —         34 +          side of the ves
                   35       39—     34 —          sel.
 — 2 hours                  39 —    33 +
    This experiment speaks in as decided language as the
 preceding.     It shows that when a portion, in the middle
  of a column of water at temperature 39•5 is cooled, the
  colder fluid rises, and does not descend through the warmer
 mass, and presents the unequivocal demonstration, that
 water of temperature 39£° is actually expanded by losing
 heat.
    The different experiments which I have in detail recorded,
 agree perfectly with each other in the evidence they give
 relative to the subject of inquiry.    The general import of
 them       is,
            that water which       ice-cold, or
                                         is        few degrees
                                                          a
 warmer, when heated, becomes specifically heavier, — that
 water of 40° when heated becomes specifically lighter,—
 that water above 40°,          by
                                the loss of heat, or       cold,by           is
 rendered   specifically    heavier   and ;that   water below    40°
 is,     the same cause, rendered specifically lighter.
           by
     Such being the general import, the conclusion             irre  is
 sistible, that heat, in low temperatures, causes water to
 contract, and at superior temperatures          to expand.     The
 opinion,   therefore,   is  founded   in truth,   that water   pos
                                                                          sesses

 1   70           On the Contraction          of Water hj Heat.
senses a peculiarity of constitution                  in relation to the effects
of caloric, and that it    within   is,           a    short range of tempera
ture, an exception to the general                     law of " expansion        by
heat."
     So far as  can judge from these experiments,
                  I                                        am dis    I
 posed     to believe
                    that  the  point  at which   the  change in the
constitution of this fluid       relation to heat takes place, lies
                                      in
between the 39^° and the 40th degree.
    I am not at present aware of any objection to the method
1  have followed in establishing this singular anomaly, and
in removing any doubts which may have arisen from the
unavoidable influence which the instrument must have in
the mode of conducting the investigation that had previ
ously been adopted.
    The plan of operation above described, however, only
ascertains the fact        ;gives no data for ascertaining the
                               it
amount of the anomalous effect of heat.
 I    have already stated, that M. de Luc alleged, that from
the temperature of 41°, the expansion occasioned               cold       by
was very nearly equal to that produced                     by
                                                   the same num
ber of degrees of heat and consequently that water pos
                                ;
sesses the same density at any given number of degrees of
temperature above and below 41*.            The first experiments
of Mr. Dalton appeared to confirm this opinion, and to
enlarge the range to which           applied,it    extendingby   to        it
temperatures as far below 32°, as water allows itself to be
cooled before     begins to freeze. From one circumstance
                    it
that constantly occurred,         am inclined to think, that the
amount of the dilatation          coldby Iinferior to that caused
                                                  is
by    heat.
     Dming  the heating or cooling of water below 40°, the
difference of temperature between the top and bottom of
the fluid was less than what occurred during the cooling or
beating of the fluid through the same number of degrees
above     itand
              ;   conceive that, when other circumstances,
                      I
but particularly the. rate of the change, are alike, the dif
ference of temperature     between the upper and lower parts
of the fluid, as depends upon, may prove
                      it                            measure of,  a
the difference of density.
    Alcohol, when heated or cooled, presents,          reason of     by
its greater expansibility,    greater difference of temperature
                                     a
in these situations than water; and upon the same principle
I  infer, that water from 40°      more expanded
                                             is         an equal     by
number of degrees of elevation than of depression.
    As the concurrence of the testimony of the experiments
above related with the general opinion, will probably re
                                                           move

             On the Contraction     of Water   by Heat.        171
move every doubt respecting the matter of fact, it remains
a very difficult problem for those who are fond of philoso
phical investigation, to explain how heat shall occasion in
the same fluid, without producing any alteration of me
chanical form or chemical condition, at one time contrac
tion and at another expansion, and to reconcile the con
tractive effect to the conceived notions of the mechanism
of the operations of this energetic agent.
    When heat causes expansion, it is imagined to act by
inducing a repulsion among the particles of bodies, which,
opposing and overpowering the cohesive attraction, causes
the particles to recede.
     In what manner, then, the addition of heat can occa
sion, or allow, the particles of water to approach each
other, and how the subtraction of it can make them retire
to a greater distance, I confess I can in no measure com
prehend.
     An explanation, abundantly plausible at first view, very
 readily suggests itself to every one who is aware of the great
 and forcible expansion which happens to this fluid at the
moment of its congelation.            It is stated by sir Charles
Blagden,     in  the paper already   quoted.
     The remarkable dilatation which water experiences at the
 instant of being converted into ice, is very generally ascribed,
 and I presume very properly, to a new arrangement which
 the particles assume, determined probably by their polarity;
 by which one side of the particle A is attractive of one side
 of B, while it is repulsive of another.
     Now, if this polarity operates with so much energy as
 to impart almost irresistible expansive force at temperature
 32°, it is reasonable to suppose that it may begin to exert
 its influence, though in a far inferior degree, at tempera
 tures somewhat more elevated.           The expansion, therefore,
 that takes place, during the falling of temperature from
 40", may be imputed to the particles beginning or affecting
  to assume that new arrangement which their polarity assigns
  them, in which arrangement these particles occupy moie
 space than before.
      Again, when heat causes water of 32° to contract, upon
 the same principle it may be conceived to operate by
  counteracting the small portion of the disposition to pola
  rity that survives the liquefaction.
      I am afraid that we cannot rest satisfied with this ex
  planation.     We must not be deceived by the plausibility
 of it.
      The  state  of perfect  fluidity depends    upon the circum
                                                            stance,'

  1 72        On the Contraction    of Water ly Heat.
 stance, that the     particles of any body admit of   ready mo
 tion upon each other, and that the change of relative situa
tion meets with little or no sensible resistance.
     Water certainly possesses fluidity in a great degree, and
 its particles must of course encounter but little resistance,
 as they glide the one upon the other.      But if these particles
 shall begin to exert any degree of polarity, by which certain
faces become more disposed to attach to each other than
certain others, this tendency would necessarily oppose that
indifference with regard to position, which is essential to
fluidity, and of course must impair the fluidity, and induce
some degree of tenacity or viscidity.
     To appearance, however, water at 32° has its fluidity as
perfect as at temperatures considerably elevated. Unwilling
to trust to appearance, where experiment might decide, I
have attempted in various ways to ascertain whether the
water suffers any sensible diminution in this respect while
it is expanded by cold.       The following method I deem the
most correct.
     For the purpose, I employed a gravimeter, the one con
trived by Mr. Nicholson for discovering the weight and
specific gravity of solids.
     This is a convenient instrument, but, unfortunately, it
is by no means so ticklish as a balance. Duly loaded, so
as to be equiponderant with the water in which it is plunged,
Mr. Nicholson says, it is sensible to the 20th part of a
grain.     The one I have, though its stem be slender, is
scarcely sensible to less than two or three twentieths of a
grain.
     The want of sensibility in the gravimeter arises, in a great
measure, though not entirely, from a certain degree of
tenacity subsisting among the partides of the fluid ; and
any thing that tends to increase this tenacity, must, in the
same proportion, augment this want of sensibility.
     To ascertain whether any sensible change in the tenacity
or fluidity accompanies the expansion of water by cold,
which the theory requires, I examined the mobility of the
instrument when immersed in water at different tempera
tures. I first plunged it into this fluid, heated to between
60" and 70°.      Under due loading, which sunk it to the
mark on the stem, it was not sensible to a weight less than
two or three twentieths of a grain.
     I then tried it in ice-cold water, and found that its sen
sibility was in no perceptible degree impaired.        The cold
ness of the water, it must be remembered, causes some
degree of contraction of the gravimeter.       This contraction
                                                          cannot

                 On an artificial tanning Substance.                      173
cannot fail to render the instrument in some small measure
more sensible, and, so far as it goes, to counteract the slug
gishness produced by any increased tenacity in the fluid.
    But as the body of the instrument is made of glass, the
amount of the contraction must be very small, and the
change of sensibility arising from it so very trifling, as cer
tainly by no means to obscure such an effect as an increase
of tenacity would occasion.            I therefore with some confi
dence conclude, that the fluidity of the water is not sensibly
diminished, and consequently that the polarity has not be
gun to exert any sensible influence ; it can scarcely, there-
tore, be accounted the cause of the dilatation.
XXXVI .        On an artificial Substance which possesses the prin
    cipal characteristic Properties of Tannin.              By Charles
     Hatchett, Esq. F.R.S.*
                                    §1.
 J.  he discover)' of the principle on which the                  effects    of
tanning essentially depend, may be partly attributed to M.
Deyeux, who obtained a substance from galls which he
considered sis a species of resin f> but which was afterwards
proved by M. Seguin to be that which renders the skin3 of
animals insoluble in water and imputrescible, and thus to
be the principle by which they are converted into leather^.
    The chief characteristic property of this substance was
ascertained. by M. Seguin to be that of precipitating gela
tine or glue from water in a state of insolubility 5 and as it
was evidently different from any vegetable substance hitherto
discovered, he gave it the name of tannin.
    This discovery of M. Seguin at once unveiled the theory
of the art ; an easy and certain method was afforded by which
tannin could be detected, and its relative quantity in dif
ferent substances be determined, whilst the nature and pro
perties of this newly discovered vegetable principle could be
subjected to accurate investigation.
    The former has derived elucidation from the experiments
of Mr. Biggin §, and much has been contributed in every
respect by M. Proust || ; but the subject has received the
   • From the
                Transaction oflht Royal Society /or 1805.
   f  Mbnorrr sur la Noxx   de Galle, par M. Deyeux;      Annales  it  Chimie,
tome xvii. p. 23.
      Ibid, tome xx. p. IS.
   {                                     § Phil. Trans. 1799, p. 259.
   || Annates d. Chimie, tome xxv. p. 225. Ibid, tome xli. p. 331.        Ibid.
iJii. p. 89.
                                      J                               greatest

 t ?4            On an artificial tanning Substance.
greatest extension and some           of the most valuab.e additions
from the ingenious labours            of Mr. Davy, particularlv the
discovery of the important fact, that catechu or terra japo-
nica consist;* principally of tannin*.
     The united results of the experiments made by these and
other eminent chemists, appear therefore to have fully esta
blished that tannin is a peculiar substance or principle
which is naturally formed, and exists in a great number of
vegetable      bodies, such as oak-bark, galls, sumach, catechu,
 &c. &c. commonly accompanied by extract, gallic acid,
and mucilage.
     But no one has hitherto supposed that it could be pro
duced by art, unless a fact noticed by M. Chenevix may
be considered as some indication of it.
     M. Chcvenix observed that a decoction of coffee-berries
did not precipitate gelatine unless they had been previously
roasted ; so that tannin had in this case either been formed
or had been developed from the other vegetable principles
by the effects of heat f.
     Somc recent experiments have however convinced me
that a substance possessing the chief characteristic proper
ties of tannin may be formed by very simple means, not
only from vegetable, but even from mineral and animal
substances.
                                    §11.
     In the   course of my experiments on lac, and on some of
the resins, I had occasion to notice the powerful effects
produced on them by uitric acid ; and I have since observed,
that by long digestion, almo3t every species of resin is dis
solved, and is so completely changed, that water does not
cause any precipitation, and that by evaporation a deep
yellow viscid substance is obtained, which is equally soluble
in water and in alcohol, so that the resinous characters are
obliterated.
     When I afterwards had discovered a natural substance,
which was composed partly of a resin similar to that of re
cent vegetables, and partly of asphaltum J, I was induced
to extend the experiments already mentioned to the bitu
mens, in the hope of obtaining some characteristic proper
ties by which the probable original identity of these bodies
with vegetable substances might be further corroborated.
In this respect I succeeded, in some measure, better than I
expected ; but I observed a very material difference between
   •  PhiL Trans.  1803. p 2S3.
   f  Nicholson's Journal for 1802, vol. ii. p. 114,
   4 Phil. Trans. 1804. p. S85.
                                                                 the

                 On an artificial tanning Substance.                   1 73
the solutions of the resins and those of many of the bitumens,
such, for instance, as asphahum and jet. The first effect
of nitric acid, during long digestion with these substances,
was to form a very dark brown solution, whilst a deep yel
low or orange coloured mass was separated, which by sub
sequent digestion in another portion of nitric acid was com
 pletely dissolved, and by evaporation was converted into a
yellow viscid substance, equally soluble in water and in
 alcohol, so as to perfectly resemble that which by similar
 means had been obtained from the resins, excepting that
 when burned it emitted an odour somewhat resembling
 that of the fat oils.
    It therefore appeared to me that the first or dark brown
 solution had been formed by the action of the nitric acid on
 the uncombined carbonaceous part of the bitumens, or that
 by which they are rendered black, and that the deep yellow
 portion which was separated was that which constituted
 the real or essential part of these bituminous substances.
 This opinion was confirmed by some experiments which I
 purposely made upon amber; and having every reason there
 fore to believe that the dark brown solution obtained from
 asphaltum and jet was in fact a solution of coal, I repeated
 the experiments on several varieties of the pit or mineral
 coal, from all which I obtained the dark brown solution in
  great abundance ; but those coals which contained little
 or no bitumen did not yield the deep yellow substance
  which has been mentioned.
                                                                               '
     In each experiment I employed 100 grains of the coal,
  which I digested in an open matrass with one onnce of
 nitric acid diluted with two ounces of water. (The specific
  gravity of the acid was 1 "40. )
     After the vessel had been placed in a sand-bath, and as
  soon as it became warm, a considerable effervescence, at
  tended with much nitrous gas, was produced : after about
  two days I commonly added a second and sometimes a third
  ounce of the acid, and continued the digestion during five
  or six days, or till the whole, or nearly the whole, was dis
  solved, excepting in those cases when the deep yellow sub
  stance was formed ; for this I constantly separated.
      The next experiment was made upon charcoal, which
  was more readily dissolved than the preceding substances,
  without leaving any residuum ; the solution was perfect,
  «nd the colour was reddish-brown*.
                                                                    Having
     • Tlje solubility of charcoal in nitric acid, and some of its properties
   when thus dissolved, have been noticed by professor Licatenstein in Creil's
                                                                    Chemical

    1 76           On an artificial tanning Suhtance.
       Having thus by means of nitric acid obtained solution*
   from asphaltum, from jet, from several of the pit-coals, and
   from charcoal, I evaporated them to dryness in separate
   vessels, taking care in the latter part of the process to eva
   porate very gradually, so as completely to expel the re
   mainder of the acid without burning the residuum ; this, in
   everv case, proved to be a brown glossy substance, which
   exhibited a resinous fracture.
       The chemical properties of these residua were- as follows./
       1. They were speedily dissolved by cold water and by
   alcohol.
       2. Their flavour was highly astringent.
      3. Exposed to heat, they smoked but little, swelled much,
  and afforded a bulky coal.
      4. Their solutions in water reddened litmus-paper.                  -
      5.. The same solutions copiously precipitated the metallic
  salts, especially muriate of tin, acctite of lead, and oxysul-
  phateofiron.        The colour of these precipitates was com
  monly brown, inclining to that of chocolate, excepting the
  tin, which was blackish-gray.
      6. They precipitated gold from its solution, in the me
  tallic state.
      7. They also precipitated the earthy salts, such as the
 nitrates of lime, barytes, &c. &c.
      8. The fixed alkalis, as well as ammonia, when first added
 to these solutions, only deepened the colour, but after some
 hours rendered them turbid.
      9. Glue or isinglass was immediately precipitated by these
 solutions from water, and the precipitates were more or less
 brown according to the strength of the solutions.                 The pre
 cipitates were also insoluble in cold and in boiling water, so
 that in their essential properties they proved similar to those
 formed by the varieties of tannin hitherto known, with the
 difference, that this factitious substance appeared to be ex
 empt from gallic acid and mucilage, which commonly
 accompany the varieties of tannin, and which occasion
 modifications in the colour and appearance of some of their
precipitates.
      Having thus had the satisfaction to discover that a pro
duct resembling tannin could be formed by such a simple
method, not only from vegetable, but also from mineral
coal, I was induced to examine hew far the same might be
extended to animal coal, and 1 therefore reduced a portion
Chemical Annals, 1786; by Mr. Lowitz (Crell'» Chemical Journal, trans
lated into English, vol. ii. p. 255.) ; and by Mr. Jameson, in his Outline of
the Mineralogy of the Shetland Islands, &c 8vo. edit. p. 167.
                                                                            Of

                                                                           1
               Oti an artificial tanning Substance*                                 11   j
of isinglass to that state in a close vessel, and having rub the
it into fine powder, I digested it with nitric acid in bed
manner which has been described. At first the acid did
not appear to act upon      it,but at length     was slowly dis
                                                        it
solved excepting    a   small quantity, which however was in
every respect unchanged     ; and here we may remark, that as
animal coal    is incinerated with much more difficulty than
vegetable coal or charcoal, so was the same difference
to be observed when oxygen was presented to these bodies
in the humid way.
    The solution resembled those which have been described,
excepting that the brown colour was more intense.              was             It
evaporated     to dryness, and was then dissolved in distilled
water, after which the solution, being examined             the re        by
agents which had been employed in the former experiments,
was found to produce similar effects, excepting some diffe
rence in the colour of the precipitates.
 I     next added some of the liquid to    solution of isinglass,
                                                   a
and obtained    a  copious precipitate. Thus         evident, that
                                                            it   is
a   tanning substance may be formed from animal as well as
from vegetable and mineral coal and       ;      not    little cu
                                                       it   is        a
 rious, that this enables us to assert as    matter of fact,
                                                   a                                al
though not of oeconomy, that one portion of the skin of an
 animal may be employed to convert the other into leather.
     In the course of these, experiments also subjected coak
                                                   I
 to the action of nitric acid, and obtained      product which
                                                        by a
 resembled that which had been afforded         pit-coal     but in        ;
 this case (as might be expected) there was not any appear
 ance of the deep yellow substance which has so often been
 mentioned.
     These experiments, therefore, prove, that tanning sub       a
 stance may De artificially formed            by
                                         exposing carbon to the
 action of nitric acid and        also appears, that this      best            is
                                  is it
                        ;
 effected when the carbon          uncombined with any other
 substance excepting oxygen.        The following experiments
 seem to corroborate this opinion.
     1. Apiece of Bovey coal, which had perfectly the ap
pearance of half-charred wood, was reduced to powder,
and was digested with nitric acid until the whole was
 dissolved.
     The colour of the solution was deep yellow and, by eva      ;
 poration, a    yellow viscid mass was obtained, which was
 dissolved in distilled water. This solution was then ex
 amined   by   various reagents, and particularly        gelatine,    by
 out not any vestige of tanning matter could be discovered,
 and the predominant substance appeared to be oxalic acid.
     Vol. 23. No. £K). Nbvi 1905.       M             2. Another

1   78          On an artificial tanning Substance.
   2. Another piece of Bovey coal, which had less of the
characters of wood, and was more perfectly carbonized, was
treated in the way which has been described ; the solution
 was brown, and, unlike the former, afforded a considerable
 precipitate with gelatine.
     3. A portion of the first sort of Bovey coal was exposed
 to a red heat in a close vessel, and was then reduced to
 powder aml digested with nitric acid ; here a remarkable
 difference was to be observed, for nearly the whole was thus
 converted into the tanning substance.
     4. A coal from Sussex, extremely like the second sort of
 Bovey coal, also afforded the same product.
     5. A piece of the Surturbrand from Iceland yielded a sij
 milar result.
     6. Some deal saw-dust was digested with the nitric acid
 until it was completely dissolved ; by evaporation a yellow
 viscid mass was obtained, the solution of which in water
 afforded re.-ults like those of the first experiment on the
 Bovey coal, for oxalic acid was found in      it,  but not any of
 the tanning substance.
     7. Another portion of the same deal saw-dust was con
 verted into charcoal in  a   close vessel the charcoal was then
                                         ;
-treated  in the manner    already described, and was thereby
 formed into    aliquid  which   copiously precipitated gelatine.
     8. Ha\ring previously ascertained that teak wood does
 not contain gallic acid nor tannin,     I    reduced some of      it
 into charcoal, which was afterwards readily con\erted into
 the substance abovementioned.
     In these experiments, the deaf and the teak wood had
 been reduced to the state of coal, as usual,        by
                                                      fire;  but as
 this does not appear to have been the means generally em
 ployed  by  nature to convert organized substances into the
 varieties of mineral coal, I    for a considerable time previous
 to the discovery of the artificial tanning product had been
 employed in     a series of experiments on the slow carboni
 zation of  a  great number of vegetable substances           bythe
 humid way.
    The agent which most commonly used to produce this
                      I
 effect was sulphuric acid occasionally diluted   ;  and although
 many of the processes were extremely unpleasant and tedi
 ous, yetI    have not any reason to regret the time which has
 been thus employed.       The subject, however,      Iforesee will
 branch out into several details, none of which as yet can    I
 regard as sufficiently completed to merit the honour of
 being submitted to this learned society but  ;       I    am in   a
 manner almost compelled        in  the present case to anticipate
                                                              afew

                  Ob an artificial tanning Sntsiance.                     1 7^
a Few of the experiments, with their results, because they
are intimately connected with the subject now under con
sideration.
    In these experiments I have observed that concentrated
sulphuric acid, when poured upon any of the resinous sub
stances reduced to powder, dissolved them in a few minutes ;
at this period the solution was transparent, commonly of a
yellowish-brown colour, and of the consistency of a viscid
toil.    But  if, after this, the vessel was placed on         sand-
                                                                 a
bath, the colour of the solution became progressively darker*
sulphureous gas was evolved, and at length the whole ap
peared like   a  very thick liquid of an intense black.          pur*
                                                                 I
posely    for  the   present pass over many phaenomena,         some
of which are peculiar to the different substances when thus
treated, whilst others are general, and may be referred to those
attendant on etherification, for my intention here            only to
                                                                is
notice, in concise manner, such as immediately tend td
              a
elucidate the subject of this paper.
    When concentrated sulphuric acid            poured on the com
                                                  is
mon turpentine of the shops,           it almost immediately dis
solves it   like the solid resins  $  and    if
                                              aportion of this solu
tion be poured into cold water, the turpentine          precipitated
                                                           is
5n the solid brittle state of common yellow resin.           But      if    a
second portion of the same solution, after the lapse of an
hour or more, be in like manner poured into cold water,
the resin thus formed       is not vellow, but dark brown; and             if
four or five hours are suffered to elapse before       third portion
                                                           a
is   poured into water* the resin        isfound to be completely
black.      After this, supposing the digestion to be carried
'on during several days, or until there is no longer any pro
duction of sulphureous gas, the turpentine or resin will be
found converted into        a   black porous coal, which,         theif
operation has      been   properly conducted, does not contain
any resin, although     a   substance may frequently be separated
by    digestion  in   alcohol, which     Tshall soon have occasion
to notice.
    When common resin was thus treated,              obtained about
                                                       I
43 per cent, of the coal, which, after being exposed to                     a
fed heat in loosely covered platina crucible, still amounted
              a
to 30 per cent., and        by the slowness of its combustion and
other circumstances which need not here be related, ap
proached very nearly to the characters of some of the mi
neral coals*.
                                                                      The
     *The difference of the quantity of carbon, which may be obtained in
 *
Ike «tate of coal from resinous substances by the humid and by the dry way,
                                    M£                                      is

  f 80            On an artificial tanning Sulstance.
      The effects produced by sulphuric acid upon turpentine!
  and resin are manifestly caused by the union of the two
  constituent principles- or the latter (namely, hydrogen and
  carbon) with part of the oxygen of the former, so ihat sul
  phureous acidi water, and coal are produced. I therefore
  availed myself of this process, by which coal could be pro
  gressively formed, whilst the original substance was gradu
  ally decomposed, to make the following experiment.
      A quantity of common turpentine was treated with sul
  phuric acid in the way which has been described, and
 dilferent portions of the solution being poured at different
 periods into water whilst the remainder was digested during
  several days, I thus obtained, from the same original sub
  stance, yellow resin, brown resin, black resin, and coal.
 I then digested a portion of each of these, as well as some
 of the turpentine, in separate vessels with nitric acid until
 they were completely dissolved, and afterwards reduced
 them to dryriess.        The different residua varied in colour
 from yellow to dark brown, corresponding to the substances
 which had been employed. These were then dissolved in
 distilled water, and were examined by solution of isinglass
 and other rdagenU.
      1 . The solution of the residuum of turpentine was pale
 straw colour, and did not precipitate gelatine.
      2. That of yellow resin resembled the former in every
 respect.
      3. That of the brown resin was of a deeper yellow, but
 in other particulars resembled the above.
      4. That of the black resin, on the contrary, yielded a con
 siderable portion of the tanning substance, — and
      3. That of the coal afforded it in great abundance.
     Hence it appears, that these different modifications of
-turpentine yielded the tanning substance only in proportion
 to the quantity of their original carbon, which, by oxidize-
 inent, had been progressively converted into coal*.
     Other substances, when reduced into coal in the humid
 way, were in like manner formed into the tanning sub
stance by nitric acid.         In fact I found this to be the con
stant result, and amongst the many substances which were
is very considerable; we may take common resin as an eiample, for when
 >OO grains were exposed to simple distillation ifl a small glass retort placed
over an open charcoal fire, the residuum of coal only amounted to three-
1-jurths of a grain.
    •
       Some late experiments have however convinced me that carbon need
not be absolutely converted into coal in order to produce the artificial tan
ning substance; but this will be more fully explained in a subsequent
puper.
                                                                   examined,

                  On an   artificial tanning        Substance.                181
examined, I shall mention various kinds of wood, copal,
amber, and wax, all of which, when reduced to coal by
sulphuric acid, yielded similar products, by subsequent
treatment with mtric acid.
    But this substance may likewise be artificially produced
without the help of nitric acid, although in a less propor
tion, as well as with some slight variations in its charac
teristic properties ; for, as I have already observed, when
any of the resins or guin resins (such as common resin,
elemi, assafcetida, &c.) have been long digested with sul
phuric acid so as to assume the appearance and general
characters of coal, if afterwards they arc digested with al
cohol, a portion is dissolved, and a dark brown solution is
formed which by evaporation yields a mass soluble in water
as well as in alcohol, and which
                                               precipitates gelatine, ace-
tite of lead, and muriate of tin, but produces only a verv
slight effect on oxysulphatc of iron.                This substance, there
fore, which may thus be separated by alcohol from the coal
formed from resinous bodies by sulphuric acid, evidently
 contains some of the tanning matter, which has been pro
 duced during the carbonization of those substances.
    A natural process very similar to this I much suspect
 takes place in some cases where peat is formed ; I sav in
 some cases, because the production of tanning matter does
 not seem to be absolutely a necessary consequence attend
 ant on the formation of peat ; for in many places where
 the latter abounds the former cannot be detected, whilst
 in others it is very abundant, and acts powerfully on
 animal bodies which have accidentally been exposed to its
 effects.
    There are manv facts of this kind upon record, such as
 the account of the bodies of the man and woman preserved
 in the moors near the woodlands in Derbyshire, and also of
 the woman found in the morass at Axholm, in Lincoln
 shire *. Now I am much inclined to believe, that the
 tanning substance which so much abounds in these and
 some other peat moors, did not originally exist in the ve-
            substances from which the peat has been produced,
 fetable
   ut that it has been and continues to be progressively form
 ed (under certain favourable
                                            circumstances) during the
 gradual carbonization and conversion, of the vegetable mat
 ter into peat.
                                     § HI.
    In most of the former         papers which         I have had         the hp-
          • Phil, Trani. vol xxxviii. p. 41 3.   Ibid. vol.. xliy. p. 571,.
                                     M   3.                                  now

 ] 82                Riitjal Society, London.
nour to lay before the Royal Society,        I  have, for greater
perspicuity, generally    concluded  with a recapitulation   of the
contents ; but in the present case this appears to be super
fluous, as the whole may be concentrated into one simple
fact, namely, that a substance very analogous to tanmn,
which has hitherto been considered as one of the proximate
principles of vegetables, may at any time be produced, by
exposing carbonaceous substances, whether vegetable, ani
mal, or mineral, to the action of nitric acid,
    Since the preceding .experiments were made, I have fur
ther proved the efficacy of this substance by actual practice,
and have converted skin into leather by means of materials,
which, to professional men, must appear extraordinary,
such as deal saw-dust, asphaltum, common turpentine,
pit-coal, wax candle, and a piece of the same sort of skin.
    Allowing, therefore, that the production of this sub
stance must for the present be principally regarded only as
a curious chemical fact not altogether ummportant, yet, as
      principle on which it is founded appears to be deve-
£eped, we may hope that a more ceconomical process will
be discovered, so that every tanner may be enabled to pre
pare his leather even from the refuse of his present ma-
terials.
    The organized bodies and their products have only of
late years much attracted the attention of chemists, many
of whom, even at this time, (although the modes of che
mical examination have been so much improved) seem dis
gusted and deterred by the Proteus-like changes which
take place whenever these substances are subjected to ex,-
periment.
    But these variable and endless alterations of their proper
ties seem rather calculated to operate as incitements to in
vestigation: for by the accumulation of facts resulting from
the changes produced in these bodies by disuniting and by
re-combining      their elementary principles, not only, will
chemistry as a science become further illumined and ex
tended, but it will, as it has hitherto done, render great
and essential services to the arts and manufactures.
          XXXVII.     Proceedings   of framed   Societies.
                   ROYAL SOCIETY,      LONDON.
 J. HE   meetings of this society commenced, after the sum
mer vacation, on Thursday, November 7, the hon. Mr.
                                                          Greville,

                       Royal Society, London.                   183
   Greville, in the chair.   The business of the season opened,
   as  usual, with the Croonian lecture, by Mr. Carlisle, on
   the Power and particular Structure of the Muscles of Fishes.
  The excellence of Mr. Carlisle's former lecture on muscu
   lar motion awakened curiosity ; and if in the present he
   has been less successful, it is perhaps rather owing to the
  more limited nature of his subject, than to the want of
  original observations and experiments,         After several mi
  nute physiological explanations of the nature and peculiar
  structure of the muscles of fishes, and their invariable
  insertion in fleshy instead of tendinous matter, the au
  thor proceeded to detail his experiments on their power
  and particular gsc, in enabling the animal to move
  with so much rapidity through a fluid so dense as wa
  ter.    He ascertained that the muscles of the sides and
  tail are solely those by means of which the fish ad
  vances ; that the pectoral and abdominal fins serve only
  to raise or lower, and balance it in the water; and
  ftiat, deprived of these muscles and again put into water, it
  remained at the bottom without being able to ascend, but
  with the power of advancing as before. By cutting off the
 pectoral and abdominal fins of one side, the fish lost the
  power of balancing itself upright, fell on its side, and ad
 vanced slowly.      He accounted for what is vulgarly called
 drowning in fishes, when caught by the angler's hook,
 from the very great violence with which they at that time
  strike the water, and consequent prostration of strength in
 the muscles, that they fall on their side or back, ana ap-
        as if drowned.     The effect would be the same if the
    ook was placed in any other part of the body as well as
 Jear
 the mouth ; exhaustion, and not suffocation being the
 cause.
     On  the J 4th, the reading   of this interesting   paper was
 concluded.      The fluids of fashes  coagulate  at about 160° of
 Fahrenheit.
     On  the same evening was      read the Bakerian lecture on
 the Force   of Percussion, by  Dr.   Wollaston, secretary of the
 society. The nature of mathematical discussions renders
analysis extremely difficult, although Dr. Wollaston 's lec
ture possesses the rare merit of brevity and perspicuity.
The hitherto undefined, and perhaps ^indefinable force of
animal power has long exercised the ingenuity of mathe
maticians, and Dr. Wollaston has wisely contented himself
with following Smeaton on that subject. His illustration
qf the force of percussion, however, and of accelerated mn-
tiorjj he conceives to be somewhat novel, and to contain
                               M4                      something

   184   Society  of Antiquaries.— French National Institute.
   something overlooked by his predecessors ; it has certainly
  much simplicity.
                     SOCIETY    OF ANTIOUARIES.
      The meetings qf this society took place on the same even
  ing and hour immediately preceding that of the Royal.        On
  the first night was exhibited a bronze bas-relief of aboyrid-
, ing on a doTphin,with a head somewhat depressed resembling
  that of a bird. This curious and highly interesting piece of
  antiquity was found at Colchester 5 but the discoverer could
  give no satisfactory account of its nature or use.      He sup
  posed it to have been one of the Dii Penates or Lares, and
   that it represented Cupid, the god of lovo, in one of the
  various characters in wnich the antients adored that power
  ful deity. Were we permitted an observation different
  from these learned antiquaries, we would pronounce it not
  a Cupid but a Bacchus seated on a dolphin, the' head pf
  which is depressed, indicating the descent of the jolly god
  ad inferos, which, according to the modern system of ex
  plaining mythology, was emblematic of the sun's setting
  apparently in the sea. This figure is supposed to have been
  adopted by the Greeks from the inhabitants of the north
  west, which they called Skiros, where their Cimmerian Tar
  tarus was placed.      The discovery of this bronze bas-relief
  will, we hope, lead to more accurate knowledge of the
  northern mythology.
     On thel4th, the several silver coins of Edward III., and two
  Roman copper coins (one of Claudius) were exhibited.
  The latter were found in the bed of the Thames, opposite
  Sion-house, near Kew. Two drawings of paintings, disco
  vered in repairing the walls of St. Stephen's chapel, West
  minster, were also displayed. They are about three feet by
  two, and consist of several persons around a table in one
  compartment ; in the other, of three female figures with an
  aureola indicative of their saintship.      Both the male and
  female countenances have the air of Normans : perhaps the
  painter may have been of that country.
      On the 2 1 st, this society was occupied with the election
  of a member of its council.
                   FRENCH IJATIOIf^L INSTITUTE.
     The   class of physical and mathematical science proposes
  for the subject of a prize, which it will adjudge in the pub
  lic sitting of the first Monday of Messidor, in the year
  15, the following question, which it remits- to the meeting,
  viz.
     To determine by observations and by anatomical and
                                                        chemical

                      French National Institute,               1.15
Chemical experiments, what are the phenomena of the torpor
which certain animals, such as marmots and dormice uur
dergo during winter, with respect to the circulation of their
blood, their respiration, and their irritability ; also to in
quire what are the causes of this sleep, and why it is pecu
liar to those animals.
    It is required that a precise detail be given of the ordinary
temperature of these animals, of the degree of cold neces
sary for their torpor, of tha natural temperature which they
retain during their lethargy, of the time which is neces
sary for them to resume their natural temperament when
they waken; of the quickness of their pulse during the
 two states ; of the quantity of oxygen which they consume
 in a given time, both in their quick and torpid state ; of
 the profoundness of their torpor, both with respect to their
 sensibility and to their simple muscular irritability : finally,
 of the colour and the chemical state of their blood.
     The proposers of the prize do not require that the experi
 ments be made on all dormant animals ; only that they be
 made with strictness on the kinds most easy to be procured.
     The prize will be a kilogramme of gold (about 3,400
 francs).      The memorials sent for competition must be re
  mitted to the secretaryship of the Iustitute before the first
  Germinal, of the year 15.
                     Conditions  of the Competition.
     All persons excepting the members of the Institute are
  admitted to the competition.
     No work that is sent to the competition is to bear the
  name of the author, but only a sentence or device.
      It is allowed, if the writers choose, to attach a separate
  and sealed note, which shall inclose, besides the motto or
  device, the name and address of the author.          This note is
  not   to be  opened   unless  the  piece  obtain the  prize. The
  works destined for competition may be sent to the office of
  the secretary, franking the packet which contains them. The
  clerk of the secretaryship will give receipts for them. They
  may also be addressed, carriage paid, to the perpetual secre
  taries of the physical and mathematical sciences.
      The competitors are informed, that the Institute will not
   return any of the works which shall have been sent to the
   competition.       The authors shall have liberty to take copies
   of them, if they have occasion. The administrative com
   mission of the Institute will deliver the gold medal to the
   bearer   of  the receipt.   In cas« tbere shall have been no re

  186           Celtic Academy.  —Literary    Society.
 ceipt taken, the medal will not be sent, but to the author
 himself, or to the bearer whom he shall employ,
                      CELTIC  ACADEMY,    PAULS.
     This academy at a late meeting submitted to the test an in
 genious contrivance of one of its members, which communi
 cates the faculty of corresponding and conversing with per-,
 sons of whose language you are entirely ignorant, without
 anypreliminary study, without expense, without embarrass
 ment, or the least mental exertions.       It was tried by twen
 ty-five academicians on the European languages, and this
 trial demonstrated, that by means of this discovery, a per
 son may travel wherever he pleases without an interpreter ;
 that he may ask for every thing he wants, converse on every
 kind of subject interesting to a traveller, and even express
 metaphysical ideas.       This process is intended to be made
 public.
                   LITERARY SOCIETY, MANILLA.
     Dr. Anderson, of Madras, has published in the Madras
 Gazette the following letter, which he had lately re
 ceived from the Manilla, announcing the formation of 4
 literary society in that city :
     (<
         There is lately instituted here, under the immediate
 protection of government, a literary society, to which they
 have done me the honour to appoint me secretary. The
 intention of this society is to produce a journal every
 month, treating of the different branches of useful sciences
 of the Philippine islands, in order to encourage industry.
 Each will begin with an historical extract of these islands
 since the commencement of their establishment by the Spa
 niards, drawn from the most approved authors on this sub
ject, deprived of all superstition in the anticnt relations.
After that they will speak of the three kingdoms, the ani
mal, the vegetable, and the mineral.         Agriculture will oc-»
 cupy great space ; and
         a                     commerce    and industry will fur
nish the journal with something upon navigation.           A few
sheets will be reserved for the remarkable events of every
description which may have occurred, with observations on
their different accidents. This is nearly the plan, which
        will be able to judge more of by the prospectus, which
{ou shall have the honour of sending to you by the first op
portunity ; but it is at present in the press, and will not
appear before the end of the month.         The society, wishing
to acquire all the information and light which can tend to
render their work more useful , and at the same time enter
                                                             into

             Society at Bombay.— -Vaccination in India.         187
into a correspondence with the other different societies who
are occupied by the same views, have requested me, and
jn particular the president, don Domingo Goyena, to in
form the society at IVfadras. of their intentions by this op
portunity, until they can do it more formally by sending
the prospectus of their journal.         Not knowing any of the
pther members of this society excepting you, sir, I take the
liberty to requestyouwillengage the learned members of your
assembly in favour of this infant society — Friends ofLuconia
— and engage them to admit with benevolence the request tq
enter into correspondence, and make known to this infant
in the cradle their lights, their works; and, in fine, to assist
 it with their succour, that it may one day be enabled to
 tread in the steps of its masters.        I cannot help being ex
 tremely     nattered,  sir, by a  commission   which brings to my
 recollection a person or your merit, and which will often
 give me the opportunity to assure you of the sentiments of
 respect and high consideration with which
                    "  I have the honour to be, Sir,
           ?? Yoyr very humble and very obedient servant,
       Manilla,                                 <U+2666>'
                                                   J. M.  DaYOT."
 JOth Feb. 1804.
                        SOCIETY     AT BOMBAY.
     A  society has been instituted at Bombay for the purpose
 pi collecting useful knowledge in        every branch of science,
  and of promoting the further investigation of the history,
  literature, arts and manners of the Asiatic nations. Sir
 James Mackintosh, who was elected president, delivered a
 yery eloquent discourse on the occasion.
       XXXyiU.        Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                       VACCINATION      IN INDIA.
              To (he Editor    of the Government   Gazette.
        SIB,
   JL he settlements of Columbo, Madras, and Calcutta, ha
  ving started nearly at the same time in the race pf vaccine
  inoculation similarly equipped, it may be worthy of in
  quiry, how so great a difference should exist in their pro
  gress as appears by public papers ; seeing that some time
  ago, when the vaccine returns at Madras gave 145,000,
  those at Calcutta were only 11,000,; and now, by the
   Ceylon Government Gazette of the 5th instant, 26,000
  persons have been vaccinated          there notwithstanding    the
                                                            pressure

 188                     Vacnnation in India, tec.
pressure of war on that island, and on the last returns of
the accountant-general here amount to 216,000. -
    From the difficulties and inconveniences occasioned by
war, however, peither the coast nor Bengal have been ex-
pmpt, and therefore this cannot be held as a sufficient rea
son of disproportion.            The zeal of professional men every
where,      with    very   few  exceptions, having been nearly the
same, the real cause therefore remains a desideratum ; but
the display of so many operations haviog lately excited u
variety of plans of alterations amongst several gentlemen
of this establishment, renders it in some degree proper to
pay attention to the idea of a permanent and fixed institu
tion, so that every village may have vaccine inoculators
within itself, in the same or a similar manner to such use
ful avocations as you will see detailed by me, in a letter to
captain James Achilles Kirkpatrick, page 89 of the accom
panying volume, which you may therefore reprint in the
Gazette to-morrow, along with this letter.
                            I am, Sir,
                                  Your very obedient servant,
Fort  St. George.                                         J.ANDERSON.
  Dec. 19,1804.
              To Captain James Achilles Kirkpatrick.
       DEAR SIR,
    The    compass of a letter hardly admitting room for an
swers to Mr. Morton Pitt-s, queries,                I must again trouble
you to render the answer wrnch              I have given toliis question
of "what proportion the rent bears to the year's crop" more
intelligible, by stating the practice at the village of Nun1*
gambacum, where I am situated, which may serve to give
an idea of the distribution of grain, the greatest necessary
of life, from the very spot where it grows ; a practice that
seems favourable to the preservation                of good-will between
the different ranks of society.
    In this village twelve families of labourers have twenty-
rive ploughs, with which they cultivate i6Ocawnies* of
ground, paying rent to government, and 40 cawnies of free
land ; and as the question only relates to the first, it will
be sufficient to say that the cawnie generally produces sixty
1narcals    f of paddy, of which, when cut and gathered into a
 heap, the cultivator must give one marcal to the carpenter
 and iron -smith, and another to the washerman and barber.
                  • One
                          cawm? is 57,000 iquare feet.
                   I- One marcal is eight measures.
                                                                A bundle

                                                             .
                       Preserving       of Hops.                18£f
   A bundle of the straw, containing one measure* of paddyf,
is folded up and given away, when the crop is divided with
government, to Pulliar church, another to the Eesvaren
church, Permall church, the Vadum schoolmaster, the wa
ter-charity pandall, the village beadle, the amildar office
water-woman, the doctor, the taylor, the man who burns
the dead and waters the fields.
    When the heap is trodden and separated from the straw,
the taylor sings a song to render the crop propitious, for
which he gets a measure of the unwinnowed grain.
    When the crop is properly cleaned, the church of Eesva
 ren, the church of Permall, the church of Peduareear, the
village extra servant, the Vadum schoolmaster, the dancing
girls who attend marriages and funerals, and the lamp-oil
for the amildar's office, have each two measures.
    The village clerk six measures ; the watchman, by guess
of hand, one measure ; Pulliar church, half a measure ; the
water-charity pandall, the same quantity; as well as the
village carpenter, irqnsmith, washerman, barber, beadle,
water-woman, and doctor.
    After the above business is over, the village clerk distri
butes, to the cultivator, two marcals and seven measures ;
the head man of the village, one marcal and two measures;
the watchman, one marcal ; the village servants, altogether
six measures ; the head bramin, two measures ; Caulata-
petty church, five measures ; Eesvaren church, one mea
sure and a half ; Permall church, one and a half; repair of
 the tank, one marcal and four measures.
    The remaining grain is then divided between the culti
vator and government, deducting one marcal and a half from
government's sshare for the watchman and clerk's fees.
Fort St. George,                                   JaMES ANDERSON.
  May  21, 1798.
                      PRESERVING          OF HOPS.
    The following method of preserving hops is given in
 Klaproth's Journal of Chemistry :
    The author, from experiments he has made, proposes to
distil the hops with water : when the distilled water is
drawn off, the essential oil which floats on the surface is to
be separated ; the refuse which remains in the still is to be
well squeezed, and boiled a second time, after which it is
to be evaporated to the consistence of extract, adding a
little distilled water.    When required for use, the essential
                  * A measure   is thirty.four ounces,
                  f Paddy is rice in the husk.
                                                                  oil

J9<j                              -           Astronomy.
 Oil is pounded with a little sugar, then diluted with the
 extract in some new beer.      The beer is rendered somewhat
 bitter by        from which the author concludes that one
                   it,
 must either save     quantity of hops, or obtain beer which
                             a
 will keep much better* consuming no more hops than usual.
    He proposes also, in years when hops are scarce, to
 Substitute for theni the menyantkes trifoliata, (the common
buck-bean, or marsh trefoil, marsh clover) taking care to
add a  fourth or third part of hops.
                         a
    On the face of this process        not easy to perceive that
                                                               it
                                                               is
any thing        is                   by
                         this extra labour, which         not se
                                                                                             is is
               gained
cured    by boiling the hops in the beer itself as         usually
done. The only question           Whether       larger portion of
                                                         is,                  a
the useful parts of the hops can, in        plentiful season, be         a
preserved by making       the  kind   of  extract  recommended*
than     bykeeping the hops themselves.               certain that                It   is
much volatile matter        dissipated   from
                                          is   hops kept in bags
in the usual manner but probably better way to prevent
                                      ;                              a
this waste would be                   by
                          packing them Up in tight casks, to
prevent   this evaporation.
                                           ASTRONOMY.
  Table       of   the right Ascension and Declination                                       bf      Ctres,
                 Pallas} and Juno, for December 1805.
                      CfiRfiS.                                Pallas.                       Juno.
                 A.R. Dec.N.                             AR.        Dec. S.            A.R.          Dec.S
             h   in              o     /                  n          o   '              m              0
  1805
                         s                     h                3                 h            s              /
 Dec.            45 40 25 54                             59 24 32            34   11          48
                                               4 4 4 4
         1   7                                                                          17            1        2
        4    7   44 28 26 12                             56 48 32            51   11    20 48         1       17
         7   7   43.   26 30
                         0                               $4 12 33            3    11    23 36         1       30
        10   7   41 12 26 48                             51 32 33            10   11    26 20         1       43
        13   7   39      12 27            7    4         48 52 33            11   11    28 52         1       54
        16       37    270             26      4         46 20 33                 11    31 16                  4
                                                                                                      S 2 8
             7                                                               9
        19   7   34 32 27              45      4         43 52 33             1   11    33 28                 13
        22   7   81 56 28                 3    4         41 32 32            49   11    35 28                 21
        25       29    28              22                39 24 32            32   11    37 SO a
                         4 8 4
             7                                 4                                              m               27*
        28   7   26    28             40       4         3? 24 32            11   11    39     0      2       32
        31   7   23              28 58         4         35 44 31            45   11    46 28         2       35
   E»« ata. —In the Table given in No. 88, the hours, instead of being con
tinued down the columns, as in the first and second lines, viz, " " in the                       7
one aad "5" in the other, were marked "0".
                                                                                                              THF

                 The His. — List   of Patents.            iftl
                          THE IBIS.
   la our present number we Have given a skeleton of this
antient sacred bird of the Egyptians.     An engraving of the
bird itself, accompanied with a description, was given in
 our eighth rolume.
                     LIST OF PATENTS.
   A grant unto Richard Kentish, late captain in the Cam
bridgeshire militia, but now of Birmingham, in the county
of Warwick, esq.; for his invented armour waistcoat,
Which is a sure defence against the bayonet, sword, pike,
or any pointed instrument, and in many instances may
prevent the wound from a musket ball.       Dated Oct. 30.
   To Joseph Huddart, of Highbury Terrace, in the county
of Middlesex ; for sundry new improvements in the manu
facture of large cables, and cordage in general. Dated
October 30.
   To Samuel Meller, of Gresse- street, in the county of
Middlesex, engineer ; for certain improvements on steam
engines. Dated October 30.
   To John Hartop, of Brightiide, in the county of York,
iron-master; for certain improvements in the method of
preparing roalleabk iron for the purpose of making the
same into bars, sheets, and slit rods, and manufacturing
the same also into hoop iron, and that he has invented cer
tain improvements in the method of preparing all other
malleable metals. Dated November 7.
   To John Trotter, of Soho Square, in the county of
Middlesex, esq.; for a rotatory engine for applying the
powers of fluids as first movers. Dated November 14.
   To William Milton, vicar of Heckfield, in the county of
Southampton, master of arts ; for a mode of rendering car
riages in general, but particularly stage coaches, more safe
than at present, and various other improvements upon such
carriages. Dated November 1 6.
   To John Curr, of Sheffield Park, in the county of York,
gentleman ; for a method different from any that has hi
therto been invented or known of laying a rope ; or, in other
words of twisting and forming the strands together that
compose the round rope. Dated November 16.
   To Andrew Flinti of Gee-street, Goswell-street, in the
county of Middlesex, millwright, for a machine upon an         .
improved construction, which may be used as a steam en
gine.   Dated November iG.
                                           METEOROIOGICAL

                                                         Meteorology.
                           meteorological table
                       Bv Mr. Carev, op the StraniJj
                                                   For   November       1805.
                                                                                1 »
                             Thermometer.
                                                     u    .   Height of
                                                                                DegreesofDi                  Hygrometer
Days of the
                                                                                               nessbyLcsli
                                                     — *.
                       i.'Clock,
                                              a
                                   Morning.
                                                              the Barom.                                                         Weather.
  Month.
                                              1                 Inches.
                       8
  Oct/   27              50°                  30°    44°       29*40                            0°                        Rain
         28              44                   46     43          •64                    15                                Cloudy
                                                                  'Si
    ,
         29              44                   44     35                                       0                           Rain
         30              35                   48     34        30.00                   20                                 Fair
         31              32                   41     37           •40                   15                                Foggy
   Nov.    1             38                   43     36           •15                 27                                  Cloudy
                         35                   47     35           •08                 25                                  Fair
           6 3 4 3 2
                         32                   48     38           •35                  15                                 Fair
                         36                   48     38           •32                  17                                 Fair
                         31                   38     37           •39                                                     Foggv
                                                                                              3 2 0 0 0
                         38                   43     42           •39                                                     Cloudy
                         43                   44     40           •38                                                     Foggy
           8 7           40                   40                  •36                                                     Foggy'
                                                     39
           9             41                   41     39           •20                                                     Cloudy
           10            40                   42     40           •16                          5                          Cloudy
           ti            40                   42     39           •32                   10                                Cloudy
           12             39                  42     39           •30                          6                          Cloudy
           13            42                   43     39           •40                   18                                Cloudy
           14            39                   44     41           •52                   15                                Fair
           15            41                   48     40           •65                   18                                Cloudy
           16            40                   46     40           •65                    18                               Cloudy
           17             34                  41     39           •55                    15                               Fair
           18             30                  42     34           •18                  20                                 Fair
          19              31                  39     38       ,   .05                         0                           Foggy
          20              38                  44     35           '25                   10                                Fair
          21              30                  38      35          •36                    12                               Fair
          22              35                  42      35          •20                   10                                Fair
          23              34                  42      3d          •28                    18                               Fair
          24              33                  43     40           '^5                                                     Showery
                                                     42                                       6 4                         Cloudy
          25 40                               44                  •20
          26 42                               46      41          •20                   20                                Cloudy
                                                                   ..      \                                              .».;.-.           .   t
                       N. B. The barometer's height                        is   taken at noott.

                                 C    193     ]
OCXXIX. Examination of different Processes for obtaining
  the Separation of Nickel from Cobalt.  By Christian
  Fkederic Bucholz*.
  J. he want of pure nickel and oxide of cobalt determined
 me, for the sake of obtaining           not only to make experi
                                        it,
 ments of my own invention, but also to repeat different pro
 cesses proposed for the same object.           As     happens but
                                                             it
 too frequently that some accidental circumstances             expe   in
riments are omitted bv their authors, or that wc are unable,
 from ignorance of certain indicative characters, to employ
the most scrupulous exactness in examining tbc products
obtained, — circumstance which makes the process we fol
                  a
low give evidence of its own insufficiency, — will be agree  it
able to chemists to find here an abridged explanation of my
experiments on this matter: the results they have yielded
me, added to those which the labours of other chemists
have afforded them, will point out the most convenient
way to the end proposed, while they save unfruitful trouble
and expense.
    A. The able chemist Hermstadt had proposed for making
the separation of oxide of cobalt from the oxide of nickel,
a   method which consists in dissolving            ammonia the ni
                                                       in
trate or the sulphate of cobalt impregnated with nickel, and
 to expose the solution to      asingle evaporation.       proposed
                                                                  I
 to try this process with the contrary design.
     . An ounce of ore of earthy cobalt was therefore dis
     1
solved        heat in four ounces of nitric acid of the specific
             by
gravity of 1*220, in which had been put an equal quantity
of water, which gave in residue three gros ot oxide of ar
senic under the form of little crystals.           The solution, di
luted with       portion of water, was of dingey green colour.
                  a                                a
It  was filtered, and diluted with       greater quantity of water,
                                         a
and     little oxide of bismuth was separated.
         a                                             Caustic am
monia     was  added in excess until        made
                                              it   no more  sensible
solution in the obtained precipitate.          That which was not
dissolved, being of reddish white, was
                         a                         composite of the
                                                       a
arseniate of cobalt with       little oxide
                               a             of  bismuth  and oxide
of iron. The filtered solution, which was of               beautiful
                                                                  a
blue, was evaporated in          agentle   heat,      which bymeans
about two gros of       abeautiful clear green matter was depo
sited, which on examination was Found to be an oxide of
    * From the Sew Uuiversaljournal
                                      of Chemistry of Messrs. Bucholz, Crell,
fee., vol. iii.
     Vol. 23. No. 91. Dec. 1805.              N                   .    nickej

194                      of Nickel from Citla't.
            On the Separation
nickel united with oxide of cobalt.   The filtered liquor,
 having been afterwards evaporated by the heat of a stove,
  still deposited some oxide or the same quality.      The saline
 mass of nitrate of ainmoniated nickel, of a deep green co
  lour, which had been obtained by evaporation, was redis-
  solved, filtered, and kept in ebullition with an excess of
  caustic potash till the ammonia was completely evaporated.
 By this means there was still separated a gros and a half of
 the oxide of nickel, which did not appear to contain any
 thing more than a little oxide of cobalt.
      2. As the separation was not effected very perfectly or
 easily by the process 1 have mentioned, I made trial of sul
 phuric acid. For this end, I poured an equal quantity of
 -water on the oxide formerly obtained, and I added sulphuric
 acid.     By the aid of heat the whole was dissolved. There
 was then disengaged, in a very evident manner, an odour
 similar to that of oxygenated muriatic acid, although there
 had not been an atom of muriatic acid employed.           I have
 before observed the same pha-nomcnon on a similar occa
 sion.     The solution was afterwards treated with ammonia,
 as formerly, until it was almost all redissolved: the residue,
 which consisted of oxide of cobalt with a little oxide of
nickel, had a colour of verdigris.        When the solution had
 been evaporated in a gentle heat, and was separated by
 filtration from the deposited powder, of which the greater
 part was oxide of cobalt, it was left to a spontaneous eva
 poration.     It crystallized, without any otlur separation, in
 groups    of prismatic crystals, partly of a pale green, and in
 Crusts of an azure colour at the edges. A trial of the oxides
 separated by potash from the solution of these crystals, as
well as from the mother liquors, made it obvious that they
 both contained cobalt nearly in the same proportion.
     3. Though in this case the result was unsuccessful, I re-
Solved, nevertheless, to recommence the same experiment
on a greater quantity, hoping that the separation might
better succeed by crystallization.      In consequence, the oxid«
being separated by     the   carbonate of  potash from a solution
of eight ounces of ore of earthy cobalt in common nitric
 acid (which had been before evaporated and filtered), this
oxide, treated witli a sufficient excess of potash to separate
from  it,   as much as possible, the arsenic acid which might
be combined with     it,    was dissolved in the sulphuric acid
weakened      by  eight parts of water.     Some pure ammonia
was added to the liquid, so as to dissolve what was soluble
irr the precipitate. The filtered solution was evaporated    by
a   moderate ebullition, and afterwards left to spontaneous
                                                     evaporation.

           On the Separation   of Nickel from Cobalt.         195
evaporation. After having parted with a little cobalt mixed
with nickel of a pale green, the saline part collected it
self, by little and little, into crystals of a blueish green,
which could here and there be perceived to be prisms, to
which, in different points, were attached some small crys
tals of calcareous sulphate.    To free, as much as possible,
these crystals from the adhering mother liquor, they were
washed with distilled water, and dried between leaves of
blotting-paper.    Although the remainder of the lixivium
showed no disposition to deposit other regular crystals, I
was not able to recognise any difference between the metal
which it contained and that in the crystals : it was in both
an oxide of nickel mixed with cobalt.       The crystals, which
weighed five half-ounces, were redissolved in 32 ounces of
boiling water; the solution was evaporated to the formation
of a thin pellicle, and, after having been filtered, it was put
in the vicmity of a stove, to cool slowly and to crystallize.
At the end of 48 hours the greater part of the salt was crys
tallized in beautiful tetraedral and rhomboidal pyramids,
short, and of a yellow green, of which the lateral surfaces
formed an angle of 1 15 and 65 degrees, often with a trun
cated extremity, and always with an angle of 1 32 degrees
of inclination towards the terminal surface. This result
proves that the salt can more easily be formed in regular
crystals by refrigeration than by slow evaporation.           All
these collected crystals having been washed with water were
redissolved, and the separation of the oxide of nickel was
effected by boiling it with carbonate of potash till the am
monia was disengaged.
   4. As much for the sakcof having this oxide free from
carbonic acid, as for judging if it was purged of cobalt, I
dissolved it in nitric acid, ana treated it afterwards with pure
ammonia, in the manner which has been often mentioned.
I evaporated to dryness the beautiful blue liquor which had
been freed bv filtration from a residue of five grains, which
showed itself to be an impure oxide of cobalt. After a sub
sequent solution there was deposited an oxide of a beautiful
clear green, which, after being washed and dried, weighed
a half-ounce.    The liquor which passed through the filter
was analysed by carbonate of potash at a heat of boiling
water, which still gave 170 grains of oxide of nickel con
taining carbonic acid of a pale green. I dissolved a little
of it in muriatic acid, and applied the solution to paper.
On heating it afterwards, the stains became yellow, inclining
only a little towards green. But when the oxide of niekef,
which had been separated from the same during" evapora-
                               N  2                         tion.

 196                On the Separation   of Nickel from Cobalt.
tion, was dissolved, disengaging much of the oxygenated
muriatic acid, on being spread upon paper, and wanned, it
showed the colour of a sympathetic ink well saturated with
cobalt; from whence it follows that it was more rich ill
cobalt than that collected by precipitation.
   Theoxides, collected in adifTcreut manner, were dissolved
in the nitric and sulphuric acids after becoming gray. I
believed that this happened because the oxide of the nickel
had been perhaps the first dissolved, and because the oxide
of cobalt was, at least for the most part, the last remain
ing; which, however, was not confirmed bv the experi
ments made on this subject.      When exposed to a low red
heat, these oxides changed their colour into a blackish gray,
and then (as was also the case by the addition of sulphuric
acid) they threw down some icsiduum by evaporation of the
nitrous acid, which was also, separated from it by ihe addi
tion of an alkaline lixivium. In other respects it acted with
ammonia, &c. in the manner that has already been men
tioned.
   The following is the result of what has been so far
stated     :
    a. The sulphates and the nitrates of amrnoniacal nickel
 drawn from the ore of cobalt contain always some cobalt
 in their composition : it is impossible by the process of
 Hermstadt, modified in the preceding manner, to have the
 oxide of nickel without a mixture of cobalt.
     /'.By partially decomposing the nitrate of ammoniacal
 cobalt        by
             evaporation, there    obtained an oxide of nickel
                                        is
 very rich in cobalt which contains nitric acid, and the oxide
 of nickel which is found in this salt not yet decomposed
 contains     very small quantity of cobalt.,
                a
    B. Dr. Schnaubert has shown (Journal do Pkurmacie,
 par TromsdorlT, vol. ii. no. 2.        60.)  process for ob
                                             p.
 taining an oxide of pure nickel        that ;        is, a
                                               to dissolve the
metal of nickel mixed with cobalt, or its oxide already dis
engaged from other substances, in nitric acid, to precipitate
it  by carbonate of potash, and to expose      to   white heat
                                                       it     a
after washing and drying.        In this manner he always ob
tained    yellow oxide, on which he afterwards boiled sul-
           a                                                                  .
phuric acid sufficiently strong, which gave him     solution of
                                                              a
oxide of nickel of grass green, while the oxide of cobalt
                           a
showed itself in the residuum under yellow colour.a          lie
proved tbe purity of the sulphate of mckel prepared         this  in
-way,      by
           the property which ammonia had to precipitate                 it
of clear green colour, and, when added in excess, to re-
     a
dissolve     of beautiful dark blue colourt This argument
               it      a
                                                                       will

              On the Separation  of Nickel from Cobalt.        1 97
will' appear insufficient to those who know that the oxide
of nickel, mixed even with many hundred times its weight
of cobalt, does not experience any sensible change of co
lour in its precipitations, nor in its solutions with ammonia;
and besides, he has not pointed out the means by which he
was convinced that the oxide obtained in the residuum of            • •
the solution in the sulphuric acid was an oxide of cobalt.
The      vague precept, to heat the oxide obtained, without
giving the least information on the degree of heat; the
uncertainty in which he leaves Us respecting the sulphuric
acid of which he made use; all these circumstances throw
upon the exactness of the indicated process a doubt which
the following experiments alone will be able to clear up.
    1. A portion of oxide of carbonic nickel A, was exposed,
during an hour, to a violent fire nearly of a white heat. The
oxide, when yet warm, was brownish yellow.           After cool
ing   it  took  a gray colour inclining to yellow,   but not en
tirely    so.   The  oxide of nickel obtained by the evaporation
A 4, having been treated in (he same manner, was yet a
little more gray than the preceding. The oxide of carbonic
nickel was again exposed, for half an hour more, to a white
heat: while hot it was vellow inclining to brownish, but
when cold it was gray inclining to a brownish yellow.
    2. Thirty grains of this torrified oxide were kept some
hours in digestion with ninety grains of pure sulphuric acid
of the specific gravity of l-SGO.        Having been afterwards
heated, the mass swelled up with a noisy etmllition, and pre
sented a yellow substance inclining to green.       By ebullition
with a half-ounce of water it was dissolved, leavmg nearly a
grain of powder of a gray vellow, which proved to be oxide
of nickel mixed with cobalt, and a little impurity.         I ob
tained exactly the same result, with the same appearances,
jn treating a second time in the same manner, and with
90 grains of concentrated sulphuric acid, 35 grains of oxide
of nickel, which I had obtained by beating briskly, even
to redness, 60 grains of nitrate of ammoniacal nickel pre
pared bv evaporation.       By heating the same oxide to white
ness, in a fire urged with bellows, for half an hour, I'did not
obtain a yellow mass, but one of vellowish gray, inclining
a little to green, which acted with the sulphuric acid, as I
have formerly stated.
    3. I repeated afterwards the same experiment with sul
phuric acid weakened.          160 grains of oxide of carbonic
nickel were exposed, during a half-hour, to a very violent
white heat; after which they still weighed 75 grains. This
                                N  3                   substance

 t9S       0«  the Separation   of Nickel from Colalt.
subs+ancc was    of a greenish yellow here and there, and of
ablueish gray at the points of contact with the crucible. On
being bruised it gave a powder of a black gray.            It was
mixed with a gros of sulphuric acid diluted with five gros
of water. After a sufficient ebullition water was added,
and the solution was decanted clear.           The residue was
treated with weak sulphuric acid.           There was instantly
a brisk disengagement of gas, and by afterwards heating
this mixture it manifested evidently the odour of hydrogen
gas.    After a sufficient ebullition water was added, and the
solution was decanted clear. The residue was treated anew
with weak sulphuric acid. This gave then ten grains of a
residue, which was not an oxide of cobalt, but an oxide of
nickel mixed with cobalt, as the solution proved in the
acids and ammonia.
    The two preceding solutions were each a part analysed
by pure potash, and trie precipitate was besides heated with
an excess of potash ; afterwards washed and dried.             On
trial each of the precipitates discovered cobalt, which was
always found purer in that of the first solution ; for the so
lution in the muriatic acid, applied on paper and heated, in
clined sensibly to yellow, while the precipitate of the second
solution gave a writing of a clear and pure green.            It i*
astonishing that the precipitate of the former solution has
furnished more oxygenated muriatic acid than that of the
second.
    The reported experiments, and some others like them, of
which I have not spoken, prove:
    A. That oxide of nickel, weakly or violently wanned,
does not take the yellow colour ; and that if this colour has
been observed by Mr. Schnaubert, it must depend cither on
a certain connection of elements which entered the compo
 sition of his oxide, or perhaps upon a mixture of a little
arsenic.
     B. That we cannot, by the aid of the process of Mr.
 Schnaubert, obtain an oxide of nickel exempt from cobalt,
 since it does not even occasion a separation of the two
 oxides sufficiently far to be sensible to the eye.
     C. 1 pass over in silence several experiments which I
 have made for finding a sure and exact method to produce
 this separation, because they have not conducted me to the
 desired end, or presented      me with any other interesting
 phenomenon : they tended chiefly to point out an acid
 which with one of the oxides formed an insoluble salt,
 and with the other a salt easily dissolved.     It only remained
                                                                for

            On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.               199
for me, therefore, to return to the process already pointed
out, A, which consists in a partial decomposition of nitrate
of aminoniacal nickel : for that which has been proposed               ,
by Lehman, to melt the nickel mixed with cobalt from fif
teen to twenty times, to a commencement of vitrification,
for the purpose of scorifying all the cobalt; as well as that
pointed out by Bergman, to repeat the melting three or
four times with eight or twelve times as much of pure ni
tre, was too troublesome and expensive.           In consequence,
I repeatedly treated the oxide of nickel, which by means of
carbonate of potash had been separated from the triple salt
not dissolved by the former evaporation, in such a manner
that, after having dissolved it by nitric acid, I had recourse
to ammonia and to evaporation, as explained above.
    It is thus that I finally obtained, entirely exempt from co-
balt^ the oxide separated by potash from the triple salt which
had been redissolved after evaporation.
   The oxide which was separated by the evaporation of
the nitrate of aminoniacal nickel was in the former opera
tion already entirely purged of cobalt; only it still contained,
as has been observed, a little nitric acid.      Oxide of nickel,
which, after having been reduced to a state of nakedness by
evaporation, contains still some cobalt, is naturally sus
ceptible of undergoing anew the same operation.
    By this method we may be served with the article in
question, until our further discoveries have shown us one
more expeditious.        It docs not occasion any considerable
expense ; for by means of potash we may effect, in a retort,
the evaporation of nitrate of aminoniacal nickel, the same
as the subsequent decomposition of the triple salt, and thus
save the ammonia for other uses.          As is the ease in works
on a great scale, we can also save a part of the nitrate from
the former operation by the evaporation of the water used
in washing it.
XL. An    experimental Inquiry into the Nature of Gravelly
  end Calculous Concretions in the Human Subject ; and the
  Effects    Alkaline and Acid Substances on hew, in and
            (if                                          I
  oiit ofthe Body.   By Thomas Egan, M.D. M.R.I.A.*
i. he constant occurrence of these afflicting complaints in
Simpson's CJouty Hospital, to which have l>een physician
                                             I
tor several years, first turned my serious attention to the
            *   Fram Tra wacttoar of the Royal Irish Academy.
                                 N4                             most

200          On Gravetly and Calculous Concretions.
most probable means of alleviating or removing them. But,
to obtain this desirable end, an examination into the nature
of the predisposing and proximate causes ; of the chemical
and other properties of gravelly matter itself; and that spe
cies of calculus most generally resulting from its aggrega
tion ; as well as of the remedies, and their mode of opera
tion, became indispensably necessary.         I must also ac
knowledge that I was not a little excited to this inquiry by
the consideration, that, whilst the medicines now most con
fided in by modern practitioners are supposed to exert no
energy on those substances out of the body, yet their be
neficial effects, taken internally, stand uncontroverted by
the experience of almost every physician.
     Induced by these motives, I had, as far back as the
year 1799> instituted a series of experiments in hopes of
throwing some more light on this subject ; and, perhaps,
chemically explaining upon what ground alkaline substances
in general alleviate, whilst acids as constantly aggravate,
this afflicting disease.
     But, knowing that -Messrs. Fourcroy and Vauquelin had
been, for many years, particularly engaged in the analysis
of urine and its morbid concretions; and expecting, from
their superior abilities in researches of this kind, that the
object which I had in view would be more satisfactorily
 fulfilled, I did not wish to intrude any observations of my
own on the public.
     After, however, most anxiously attending to the result
of their scientific labours on this subject, as they have been,
 since that period, successively detailed, by M. Fourcroy, in
 the Annales de Chimie, Memoirs of the National Institute,
 and latterly in his great and elaborate work the Cmmois-
sances Chimiquet ; and finding little, if indeed any things
 illustrative of the subject, to which I would wish to point
 the attention of the faculty as well as the public in general,
 I again latterly repeated, with much care, my experiment,
of 1799» and added some more, \vhich may probably prove
interesting in a practical point of view.
     These, with some observations, and deductions from
them, I now, with diffidence, ofler to the candour and
consideration of the academy.
     I must here premise, that the limits of an academic dis
sertation necessarily confine me chiefly to the consideration
of gravdly matter itself, and that species of calculus which
most generally results from its aggregation.
     Though determined to intrude as little as possible on
their time by an useless quotation from antient authors,
                                                           who

              On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.                      201
who could      have no clear ideas          of
                                    the subject ; yet the better
illustration of my object, as well as a sense of justice, oblige
me to go as far back as Van Helmont, whose great though
eccentric' genius first observed that the subject matter of
calculus existed in the urine itself. But the flighty extra
vagance of his ideas, of which he has given us a specimen
on this subject in his Treatise de Lithiasi, (a wonderful
production for the time,) caused little attention to be paid
to his opinion ; and it was reserved for the capacious and
learned genius of Boerhaave first to ascertain, beyond future
doubt, the presence of gravelly matter as a natural consti
tuent part of urine, kept in chemical solution in              it,
                                                           and eli
minated       by out of the system. Of this important fact
                   it
no material use was made, until the all-prying genius of the
immortal Linnaeus induced him to request his friend Scheele
to turn, for     moment, his great chemical abilities to the
                   a
investigation   of this subject    with what success
                                   :                        but too
                                                                is
 well known.      And from this again had aiisen the further
 prosecution of this inquiry       the celebrated Bergman.
                                       by
    The result of the analysis of the latter was highly ho
 nourable to the former chemist, as they perfectly agreed
in   almost every particular, with the exception of some
 .small quantity of insoluble matter, and the presence of
 lime, observed         by
                       Bergman        difference now very easily
                                       :    a
accounted for; the former having examined calculi of the
 pure lithic acid, or, as    it  now termed, uric kind, (by far
                                  is
 the most common species,) and entirely soluble in pure                    al
 kaline lixivia and nitric acid the latter, those of the mixed
                                   ;
 kind, consisting also chiefly of lithic acid, but with inter
posed laminae      or probably
                    ;              nucleus of either calcareous
                                       a
phosphate or oxalate of lime, which frequently occurs in
a  very large proportion of these concretions.       Wc may also
observe- that Bergman had not, at this period, an adequate
idea of the large proportion and insolubility of animal matter
contained in them.
    From their joint analysis     was, for the first time, proved
                                   it
that the subject matter of gravel, and of very large pro   a
portion of calculi, was present in         state of real chemical
                                                 a
solution in all healthy urine; that          was possessed of the
                                                 it
following distinguishing chemical properties:
    Insipid, inodorous, crystallizable, nearly insoluble       cold  in
water, and only soluble       insome thousand times its weight
of boiling water; separable again from this, upon cooling,
in   abeautiful and peculiar crystalline form        of easy solu
                                                           ;
bility   in pure alkaline lixivia, which        renders sweetish,
                                                      it
and neutralizes;      precipitablc from these again bv the
                                                           weakest

«OS         0/j Gravelly and Calculmis Concretions.
weakest acids, and still possessing its original crystalline
form and properties. That, from these circumstances, with
that of turning the vegetable blues red, it was of an acid
nature, soluble in nitrous acid with effervescence : this so
lution tingeing the skin and other animal matters red, and,
upon evaporation to dryness, assuming a red rose colour :
this last property being peculiarly characteristic of this sub
stance; subliming in part by distillation, without any al
teration in its properties, and affording carbonate of am
monia, and other usual animal products, parily from the
admixture of animal matter, and probably some adhering
urea. To these distinguishing chemical properties of the
Swedish chemist, Fourcroy has since added the following :
When triturated with a lixivium of either of the fixed al
kalies, it forms a matter of a saponaceous consistence, very
soluble with excess of alkali, but little so without it.    The
saturated urates of potash and soda are little sapid, soluble,
or crystallizable.   By precipitating their dilute solution by
muriatic acid we obtain the lithic acid in brilliant needle-
like crystals, very voluminous, a little coloured, tending to
the yellow, or fauve, as he calls it. Ammonia exerts little,
if any, solvent power upon it: lime water takes up a little.
The alkaline carbonates have no action upon it : and this
last circumstance, I would beg leave to observe, has con
tinued to be the opinion to this day ; but how far founded,
will appear in the sequel.     To this matter Scheele gave the
name of lithic acid; by which it continued to be known,
until our countryman, Dr. Pearson, has latterly proposed
that of uric; a change greedily adopted by the French che
mists, as being more particularly indicative of its origin.
 In compliance with the philosophers of both nations, I
shall, in future, term it uric acid, and the concretions of
that nature, calculi of the uric acid kind.    The publication
of Scheele-s Essay excited the experimental inquiries of both
chemists and physicians.       His experiments were, accord
ingly, repeated by several of our countrymen in particular ;
 but with various, and in many instances different, results.
    It was already cursorily observed, that Bergman-s analysis
differed from Scheele-s in some circumstances, which he,
even at that period, was disposed to attribute to a difference
 in the nature of the calculi which they respectively exa
 mined l and this conjecture has been fully established by
every subsequent inquiry since that time.      We accordingly
find a paper of Dr. Dawson-s, in the London Medical
Transactions for the year 1 769, showing these concretions
to be of very different and opposite kinds, and, of course,
                                                         soluble

          On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.             203
soluble in very different and opposite kinds of menstrua :
as also a letter from Dr. Saunders to Dr. Percival, of Man
chester, published in the third volume of Percival's Philo
sophical and Experimental Essays, in 1776, detailing several
experiments ; from which he fairly concludes that the doc
tor's enthusiastic hope, of dissolving all calculi in a solution
of carbonic acid, must prove groundless, from the very dif
ferent nature of their component parts, as ascertained by
his own experiments.           This was placed beyond further
doubt by our own learned and ingenious professor Mr.
William Higgins, who, in an analysis of a calculus, of
which he gives an account in his Comparative View of
 the Phlogistic and Antiphlogistic Theories, (a work of sin
 gular merit for that" period, to which we will afterwards
 refer,) and published so far back as 1789, enumerates the
 many various substances contained in oiy: specimen only.
 The researches of Austin, Lane, and Brugnatelli, led to
similar results.    But to the learned and accurate Dr. Wol-
 laston we stand indebted for the first clear and distinct dis
 crimination of the component parts of these substances.
 In a paper read to the Royal Society in the year 1797,
 which would not discredit either a Bergman or a Klaproth,
 he has most accurately demonstrated, both analytically and
 synthetically, the component parts of three distinct species
 of calculi ; namely, the fusible, as he terms   it, or the ammo-
  niaco-magnesian phosphate        of Fourcroy
                                             ;   the  mulberry, or
  oxalate or lime kind    ;   and bone earth calculus, or phos
  phate of lime, which, with the uric, well known to us
  since the time of Scheele, left us then acquainted with the
 four «p_'cics of calculi of most frequent occurrence. Under
  these circumstances I     cannot help expressing my surprise
  at finding M. Fourcroy still assuming the merit of the dis
  covery of all the different component parts of calculi, the
  uric acid and phosphate of lime excepted.           This circum
  stance must appear the more unaccountable, when we con
  sider that the communication of Dr. Wollaston's experi
  ments was through the medium of the Transactions of the
  Royal Society for 1797.       Finally, M. Fourcroy, to whom
  Europe stands not   a   little indebted for the present general
  diffusion of chemical knowledge, and to whom the medical
   profession owe the greatest obligations for his unremitted
  application to animal chemistry, has,     in   conjunction with
   Vauquelin, given us the result of his researches upon five
   hundred calculi;   from which  it    appears that they contain
   the seven following ingredients :
                        1. Uric acid.
                        2. Urate of ammonia.
                                                       3. Phosphate

      204        On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.
                    3. Phosphate of lime.
                    4. Ammoniaco-inagnesian      phosphate.
                    5. Oxalate of lime.
                    6. Silica.
                    7. Animal matter.
         From the prevalence of any of these ingredients, or their
     relative proportions, he divides them into four genera ; and
    these again into twelve species : for an account of which
    I must refer to the tenth volume of the Connoissances Chi-
    miqucs, and the Memoirs of the National Institute; not
    proposing to go into their chemical properties further than
   may be necessary to my present inquiry ; namely, of how
    far acids may be conducive to the formation, or alkalescent"
    substances to the prevention, or even solution, of a large
    proportion of gravelly and calculous concretions.      We have
    already remarked, that to the sagacity of Bocrhaave we are
    indebted for the knowledge of gravelly matter being a con
   stituent part of urine kept in chemical solution in it; and,
   happily for mankind, only separable from it after being
   some considerabte time out of the body.           After minutely
   detailing    the  ingenious   means  made   use of by Boerhaave
   to ascertain this important point, to which I beg leave
   to refer, his commentator, Van Swieten, goes on to ob
   serve    :
       '.' Hoc calculi rudimenta adsunt   etiam in urina hominum
   sanissimonmi ; quae, si una cum urina secernuntur, anlc-
  quam ab urina seccsserint, et concrcscere incepcr-mt, nullo
  modo sanitatem laedent.         Cum autem observatum fuerit,
  illam separationem rudimentorum calculi citius fieri in qui-
  busdam hominibus, tardius in aliis, patet, illos magis cal-
  culo obnoxios viverc, in quibus citius haec scparatio arenu-
  larum obtinet.       An quandoque ilia separatio contingit jam
  in rcnibus, ct in vesica, antequam urina expellatur de cor*
  pore ? Certe videtur. Vidi saepius, una cum urina excretum
> sabulum nephriticum         expulsum fuisse, statimque, calentc
  ad Inn- et fumante urina, in fundo matulae subsedisse.      Con-
  tiejitaliquoties, inventam fuisse, in linteis sanorum infantum
  urina madidis, copiam sabuh nephritici, satis duri, quod
  videtur una Cum urina excretum fuisse. Cum enim magna
  cura haberetur, ne hi infantes, (illustri genere nati,) diutius
  uriua, vel flliis sordibus, conspurcati manerent, et urina
  statim per fintea penetret, vix videtur possibile fuisse, ut in
  urina jam efjiissa hoc sabulum productum fuerit, intra unam
 alteramve riorum."
       And again he adds : -- Hoc sabulum, in urina etiam sa-
 nissima concrcsccns, vocari posset calculus nativus; a quo
 nemo liber cst ; at qui tune tantum metuendus videtur, si
                                                               cito

           On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.            205
cito in urina concrescat. Felices illi, in quibus tardissimq hoc
fit.    Propriam saepius examinavi urinam, laetusque vidi, ru-
dimenta ilia prima calculi separari quam tardissune, requiri
quandoque horas viginti quatuor et ultra, antcquam in sa-
bulum majoris molls concrcscerc potuerint.           Sed et, licet
decimum tertium aetatis lustrum emensus jam fuerim, ab
omni lithiasi immunis vixi."
     The mode and appearances attending the separation and
crystallization of this substance from healthy urine, is one
of the most beautiful that, probably, chemisiry affords.
But, as the circumstances are so minutely and correctly
detailed by Boerhaave, and his commentator, Van Swieten,
in his treatise De Calculo, vol. v. p. 20J and 202, and cor
respond so much with my own experiments, so often re
peated, I must refer to him.       On this passage, however, I
must observe, that the space of twenty-four hours, men
tioned by him as the period of spontaneous separation, is
by far, in the healthy state, too short, and that it extends
to two, three, and sometimes more days, according to the
existing temperature and other circumstances.           Nothing,
therefore, I will presume to say, is more erroneous than
the assertion, repeated in almost every chemical book, that
 the uric acid separates from urine upon cooling.          When
 this occurs, which frequently happens, particularly with
children, the urine is certainly surcharged with this very
 insoluble substance.
     An increased temperature hastens the incipient decom
 position of urine, and its first aminoniacal degeneration is
 always attended by the deposition of its uric acid in its crys
 talline form.
     This did not escape the observation of Hales, who tells
  us, that urine, tending to putrefaction, affords most of this
 acid substance ; and, indeed, were it to be deposited upon
 cooling, or within the space of twenty-four hours, or even
 more, as is so generally asserted, it should every day pre
 sent itself to physicians, who so constantly attend to the
  state of urine in glasses ; but this is by no means the case :
  and we find Fourcroy, in his last publication, mentioning
  from twenty-four to forty -eight hours, which certainly only
  applies to summer heat, or the circumstance already men
  tioned.
      Our next great obligation   is,  undoubtedly, to Scheele,
  who has made us acquainted with its nature, and the very
  distinct chemical properties already enumerated.
      While in the state of gravelit     ever the same, whether
                                        is

    206           On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.
    passed    immediately with the urine, or spontaneously de-.
    pobued, or precipitated from it ; a circumstance that, tor a
    long time, continued to give me much surprise, consider
    ing the variety of calculi ; bul of the truth of which I was
    convinced by the examination of many hundred speci
    mens, for many years back.
        I was therefore pleased to find, that Fourcroy, for the first
    time, in his Connoissances Ckimiiluex, asserts, " lea sables
    dcs reins sont presque toujours de 1'actde urique."             And in
    another place he says, speaking of the uric acid, " c-est lui
    qui forme les sables, qut se crystallize, et s-attache aax par-
    rois de vaisseaux."
       No wonder, then, that calculi of this kind should be of
    most frequent occurrence ; and that, of five hundred ana
    lysed by Fourcroy, one-fourth should entirely consist of             it,
    besides its occasional admixture with the remainder; and
    of three hundred, examined         by   Pearson, the greater number
    were found to be of this nature.
        Having premised these necessary obse^ations, \ve have
    now to consider to what circumstances we may attribute its
    separation, in crystallized or aggregate state, from its na
                     a
    tural solvent; the only condition in which            it   can be pro
    ductive of inconvenience, or diseases of this kind.                And
    first,I    would observe that, beins;      a    natural secretion, of
    which the urine         only the vehicle destined to carry
                         it is
                                                                    it  out
-   of the system,         must be subject to the same derange
    ments with the other secretions of the human body, and
    may, of course, sometimes exceed          in   quantity, and at other
    times be more deficient      ; which last circumstance seems to
    take pliice during the continuance of acute diseases.
        That  a   morbidly increased secretion does frequently oc
    cur,   and  that, too, independent of external causes, we have
    the most satisfactory proof of in the hereditary dispositions
    of many families to this complaint: and, indeed, when we
    consider the same to take place, relative to the functions
    and secretions of the liver, we must not be surprised at             si
    milar deviations in those of the kidneys.                 Here, truly,
    they   are of  more  mischievous     tendency, as,     from   the very
    sparing solubility    of  the uric  acid,   (even  in its own   natural
    raenstmum,)      the smallest    excess    in quantity    must  subject
    it to precipitation.
        Having premised these necessary considerations,           I    shall
    proceed    to inquire   into  those  circumstances      which  the  ex
    perience    and  observation    of  all  times   have   pointed  out to
    us as the most frequent occasional causes of these maladies,
                                                                        and

            On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.                     207
and how far these opinions may be confirmed by experi
ments instituted for that purpose.
    And first, It is a matter of notoriety, that the period of
life, from infancy to about fifteen inclusive, is most subject
to disorders of this kind.
   Of this practical observation we have an interesting con
firmation inserted in the second volume of the Memoirs of
the French National Institute, Mathematical and Physical
Sciences, year 7.        Under the former happy regime there
was instituted, about forty years ago, at Lunevifie, in Lor
raine, an hospital for the exclusive relief of calculous and
gravelly patients.      In that interval, 1629, of both sexes,
were admitted, and operated upon.                    Of these, 1564 were
males, and only 65 females.
    C. Saucerotte, an associate of the Institute, to whom
we are indebted for these interesting details, annexes tables
indicative of the number of these patients, that occurred at
the different periods of life, from the age of one up to se
venty-eight.     Tcvthese, as too extensive to be inserted here,
I would heg leave to refer ; and shall satisfy myself with
some extracts only, expressive of the general result.
             Age of Patients.                      Number of Patients.
                           ...
                Male Sex.
                 1 year to 2            -      -          1
                 2 years              -        -        14
                 3        -           -        -        79
                 4                                     131
                 5                                     145
                 6                                     147
   From this   age,  which afforded         the maximum       of the num
ber  of patients, we find       a  gradual declension,      as follows :
             Age of Patients.                    Number of Patients.
                 8 years          -       -      -     121
                 10           -
                              ...
                                                        79
                 15           -                         39
                 20                       -      -      16
                 25           -           -      -       7
                 30           -           -      -       8
                 35                                      4
                                    '
                 50           -                          5
                 60           -           -      -       2
                 70           -           -      -       3
                 78           -           -      -       1
                                                                        Of

   203       On Gravelly and Calculate Concretions.
      Of the sixty-five females,
               Age of Patients.             Number of Patients.
                   1 year to 3         -     -       1
                      '
                   4       -       -     -   -      8
                           -     -      -    -
                                   ...
                   5                                7
                   6                                4
                   7       -       -    -    -      6
                   H       -     -      -    -      $
                   P       -                        3
                 13        -      -     -    -     4
                 14              -      -           1
     From which period, down         to seventy-eight, there occurs
  but one or two upon each year.            Prom these, then, we
  learn how much more subject the male sex is to those com
  plaints than the female ; and the earlier periods of life, than
  the more advanced.          For among the males in the sixth
 year we find 147 (the greatest number), and among the fe
 males only five at eight. From these periods, in both sexes,
 the numbers rapidly diminish.
     These facts would lead us to conclude that some physio
 logical cause, peculiar to the functions of this early stage,
 may give rise to this difference ; and I will not pretend to
 say but this may possibly exist : but when we consider that
 in every country the infant poor are the greatest sufferers,
 we are induced to inquire further, and suspect the existence
 of some general cause affecting and applicable to them all.
 That a similarity of diet (in the children of this class of so
 ciety, in particular) must every where nearly take place, is
 evident ; and that this \f, but too often, of the kind most
prone to the acescent tendency, such as pap, gruel, sour
milk, Sec.; all which it is not always in the power of the
parents to renew, or administer, in a recent and sound state;
an error not unfrcquently occurrine; from the negligence ot
nurses even in the upper ranks, "but irremediable in the
lower ; where this accscem tendency cannot be corrected
by the seasonable admixture of broth, or other light animal
food; their unhappy situation confining them exclusively,
]ike their cattle, to the soie use of vegetables and the fari-
nacea.
    To  pass on from infancy to the advanced periods of life,
and    begin with our own island, we find that, considering
the extent of our population, the disease is of relative rare
occurrence: so much so, that the late Mr. Dease, (whose
premature death we have still to deplore, as a national cala
mity,) with all his well deserved celebrity as a lithoiomist,
never operated upon more thaji sixty.           A small number,
                                                             indeed,

              Oji Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.     209
indeed, when we consider that the operation is seldom, if
ever,    attempted in the country.     And why this should
happen here, we shall be presently, perhaps, better able to
                   •
judge.
     The reverse of this occurs in the sister kingdom ; and
 the Irish student feels astonished at the frequency of the
 operation in all the London hospitals, though also per
 formed in those of the more considerable country towns ;
 and, upon inquiry, he finds that a large proportion of these
  patients come up from the cider counties of Hereford,
 Devon, &c. : and it must naturally occur to him, that the
general use of fermented liquors of every kind, b(.er, cider,
 perry, and factitious wines, which prevail in England, ren
ders the disease of more' frequent occurrence there than with
 us, the great mass of our people being deprived of these
luxuries.
     If we pass over to the Continent, we find our neighbour
 ing provinces, Picardy, Normandy, and Britany, in par
 ticular, still more subject to affections of this kind ; so
 much so, that the lftte Mr. Dease could not give credit to
 the extraordinary number of patients operated on, in one
year only, in the hospital of Rouen ; though many must
 nave, of course, repaired to Paris.   The same, though in a
 lesser degree, takes place in Champagne ; and it is almost
 unnecessary to observe, that the general beverage of the
 northern provinces consists of cider, or of poor wine,
 equally acescent in its nature, and prone to the acetous
 fermentation.       The Champagne, though somewhat less so,
 is replete with carbonic acid gas and disengaged tartarous
 acid ; and though, in the more southern provinces, this
 malady cannot be considered as endemial, yet it is of fre
 quent occurrence in the hospitals of Montpellicr.
     Tor, even in these favoured climes, where wine is of so
 little value, and withal so spirituous, the unfortunate pea
 sant is obliged to content himself with an inferior quality,
 prepared by a second maceration of the marc of the grape,
 which he denominates picquet ; a patois appellation, most
happily applied to its highly acid quality.
     In that once happy country, Switzerland, on the con
 trary, as barou Haller assures us, the disease is by no
 means frequent, and chiefly confined to the children of the
 poorer sort ; their mountainous and elevated situations af
 fording them little or no vinous liquors ; whereas their
 neighbours, the inhabitants of the Rhine and Moselle, as
 well as some tracts on the banks of the Danube, are pecu
 liarly afflicted.
     The truth of this observation we find confirmed by the
 Vol. 23. No. 9]. Dec. 1805.       O                  medical

210              OH Gravelly and CalcuLous   Concretions.
medical authors of all times.            Silvius observes,    " Vina
acida tcnuia et Rhenana, magis nocere calculosis quam
opima;" and the same is particularly insisted on in Do-
lieus-s " Encyclopaedia Ephemerides Naturae Curiosorum,"
and Rivinus-s " Morbi Endemici," 8cc.              Now, the wines
in these countries are well known to be of an acid quality :
and Hoflman asserts, and that too from experiments, that
they abound in the tartarous acid, having found them to
contain a double relative quantity of that in other wines;
and to this we may add no small proportion of carbonic
acid. Linnaeus, in his dissertation " De Genesi Calculi,"
inserted in the second volume of the " Amcenitates Acade-
 micae," seems more particularly to point out acids, and
 acescent drinks, as the chief causes of calculous affections.
 He says : " Acida fermentescentia oinnia calcuhun promo-
vent; hinc vina acida geriesi calculi magis favent, quam
 dulcia.        Qui acida vina copiose ingurgitant, podagrae et
 calculo plus exponuntur, quam illi, qui terras calidiores
 inhabitant, et dulcia vina hauriunt.           Nee mirum, cum
 vini Rhenani libra; quatuor destillatione dant spiritus acidi
 drachmas quinque; et vini Tocariensis praebet spiritus acidi
 tantum scinidrachmam, teste Hoffmanno. Sanissimus quis-
 que a potu acido saepe stranguriam incuvrit, eo quod ab
 aeidis ingestis particulae terrestres       praecipitantur."    And
 again      :
               " Gjuin podagra igitur et  calculus  ab  acido   gene-
 rentur, nullum est dubium, id etiam ab eorum communi
 cura, ad quam pergimus, luculentius patebit."            Beverovie,
 De Calculo, 80, also observes : " In nullo vino tantum tar-
 tnri apud nos accrescit, quam Rhenano.           De me ipso, quod
  eliam ex plurimis audivisse memini, possum testari, nun-
  qunm Rhenanum assumsisse paulo largius, quin copiosr
  arenulas excernerem."
      The reveise of all this is observed to take place where:
  the use of wine is prohibited.         Rivinus observes, that in
  the city of Batavia, \vliere the pursuit of commerce brings
  together a vast assemblage of the neighbouring Asiatic na
  tions, whenever the disease occurs, it is almost always in
  the instance of some Hollander,           who, in his passage to
  India, drank freely of bottled beer, anc| used sour crout.
  In Persia, the -same author, in his excellent treatise De
  J\l',r!-ia r,ndemicii, observes, that whenever calculous af
  fection ot curs, either in Ispahan or the provinces, it is as-
  suivcily ii! i he instance of some Armenian; fellows, (to use
  his word.<.) who, in every latitude, drink more wine than
  water.
       Again, in Grand Cairo, where the proximity of the Gre-
   ci:-i i "islands, and ready conveyance by the Nile, render
                                                                 wine

               On Gravelly and Calculates Concretions.        21 1
toine    of      acquisition, and drunkenness and public
               easy
houses    ascommon as in any city in Germany ; we learn,
from Prosper Alpinus, that the disease is of very frequent
occurrence ; for, besides a mixed population of Franks,
Armenians, Arabs, Sec., the Mamelukes, as well as many
other Turks of the higher ranks, do not, in deference to
the Mahometan law, refrain from wine.       The Cyprian and
Grecian wines, if not adulterated, or become acescent by
dilution, and the warm temperature of that city, are, in
themselves, among the least objectionable.     But, when we
consider that Paris is chiefly supplied with Burgundy, and
that yet in no part of the world does there occur more
mischief from the attempts to keep down and correct its
acescency, we shall easily form an opinion of the quality of
the wine retailed in Cairo.
   To this abstinence, then, from wine and fermented li
quors ; as also, perhaps, to the admixture of a large pro
portion of the warmest spices in their vegetable food, tend
ing to correct its acescent tendency ; we may ascribe the
rare occurrence of this disease in the more southern cli
mates.
    Now, these more general remarks we find peculiarly to
 coincide with the observations of the patients themselves,
 as well as that of the physician ; for such as have laboured
 under these complaints a sufficient length of time to be
 come acquainted with the juvuntla and Ufilvntla, most
 scrupulously abstain from acids, and acescent drinks of all
 kinds, and, what they find most particularly pernicious,
 beer or ales turning over to the acetous fermentation, or
 hard, as they are generally termed. And, indeed, nothing
 is more common, than that an indulgence in cider, claret,
or acidulated punch, nay, a draft of hard beer or porter,
should be followed by a fit of the gout and gravel.
    The connection between these diseases forms an interest
 ing and curious subject of physiological as well as patholo
gical inquiry ; but, proposing to ofter some observations on
this subject on a future occasion, I shall at present decline
entering upon         it,
                    and pass on to observe, that the bad ef
fects of all acidulous drinks are fully continued        by
                                                          the
experience of our many sufferers in Simpson-s hospital.
Hewson, who lately died there at the advanced age of 102,
never tasted the beer of the house during the summer
months, and substituted milk for it; being taught bv ex
perience, that its acid tendency, during that period, always
                                                         ''-
induced his gravelly paroxysms.     AacFClapham, who suf
fered much from uoitt and gravel, and was for many ye?rs

  212                 On Pneumatic Medicine.
  a ship captain, informed me his voyages to America were
  always succeeded by fits of both ; which he attributed to a
  free indulgence in the use of cider, a beverage to which he
  was then peculiarly attached : and that, at any time, he
  could excile a paroxysm of one or the other, or both,
  by drinking acidulated punch, or claret.                 Khensk our
  greatest martyr (having all his articulations distorted by
  gouty concretions, and who once lived in easy circum
  stances,) assured me that the severest and longest protracted
  fit of the gout and gravel he ever experienced was occa
  sioned by a surfeit of a poor vapid claret. And I shall
  conclude this part of my subject by observing, that the
  clergy of the Roman catholic church are peculiarly liable
  *o these complaints, and form no small proportion of the
  number operated upon in this city ; which I would attri
  bute to the use of a small and sour wine during their resi
  dence in their seminaries abroad.
                            [To be continued.]
  XLI.    Twenty -fifth Communication from Dr. THORNTON,
                 relative to Pneumatic Medicine.
                           To   Mr. Tilloch.
                                          Hinde-street, Manchester-square,
                                                 November 1,1805.
 r^, DEAR SIR,
  J. HE number of cures performed by the pneumatic prac
 tice, after the usual routine of medical agency has failed,
^are now become so very numerous, that I am certain the
 record of the whole would fill a large volume, so eager have
 been the afflicted to seek resource from the aerial remedies
 in diseases probably otherwise incurable.
     In the family of Mr. Wilson, sadler, the subject of the
 last communication,        two cases have occurred which yet
 further evince   the efficacy of the pneumatic practice.
                A   Decline cured    ly f^ilal Air.
     Elizabeth Barlow had been in a declining state of health
 for four years, frequently sick, weak, and debilitated ;- and a
 medical gentleman, a relation, pronounced to the parents
the improbability of her long surviving.            The vkal air, two
quarts, diluted with atmospheric, was now tried with tonic
medicines : it was observed from the very first day that her
appetite and looks were improved.              In six weeks she was
restored to health, and has since continued well.             It is now
two years.
                                                               Another

           New Metal discovered           ly M.    Tromsdorff.          213
                  Another cured         ly Vital Air.
   Miss Ann Russel, also, niece to Mr. Wilson,                  a beautiful
young lady, aet. 20, fell into a decline, or wasting, which
continued for the space of nine months.                 She was reduced
so low as hardly to be :ible to walk       across   the room ; her bones
nearly  came  through     her   skin  ;  a  total loss  of  appetite, with
dejection of spirits, took place, but no cough.                  As medi
cines seemed to have no effect in arresting The progress of
this decay, the vital air was had recourse to, which, to the
astonishment of all, produced a very speedy cure. The
vital air, a gallon per diem, each time of inhaling it diluted
with four parts of atmospheric, produced a glow over the
whole frame; the appetite returned, the spirits of course
were increased, and the young lady gained flesh.                 It is now
eight  months,    and   she   has   all    along   continued     in perfect
health.
         Observations    on these Cases       ly Dr.    Thornton.
   The functions of life often lag, as it were, without dis
organization of parts, and this from an impoverished or
disoxygenated state of the blood. Tonics only half do their
office, unless the vital principle in the blood be increased ;
and though only inhaled -once a day, yet if we calculate
that the momentum is always going on, and that only one
impulse to a wheel in motion accelerates all the movements
for a given time, therefore this one impulse in the animated
machine has a great effect : thus the stimulus of one or
more glasses of wine oticc a day has a diurnal effect, if I
may so use the expression, on the animated machine.
                 I have the honour to remain, dear sir,
                         Your faithful obedient servant,
                                         ROBERT JOHN THORNTON.
XLII.    On a new Metal recently discovered              ly M.    TROMS
                                DORFF*.
JV1. TROMSDORFF received the fossil containing the
new metal of M. Counsellor Thon, of Eisenach, who found
it in a mass of rock. The fossil was of an iron gray co
lour, very weighty, and had a scaly fracture, exhibiting,
when seen through a magnifying glass, holes and stripes of
a deep  yellow.
            * From  Jturnal iie Chimie ct dt Phytique, torn. v.
                                 O  3                            M. Thon

214          Kciv Metal   discovered by      M.      Tromsdorff.
   M. Thon took this fossil at the first view for anthracite:
he held a small bit of it above the flame of a lamp fi r the
sake of assuring himself of its incombustibility;   but it in
flamed, took fire, and burnt with a pa' blue flame.            Some
drops flowed, which were crystallized in stars, and were
surrounded with a yellow rim.          The mineral, when melted
further, kept the same colour.         On dropping some nitric
acid on some bits of the mineral, the acid did not appear
for some time to attack it; but by the aid of heat it changed
it to a reddish brown, and by ebullition dissolved                 it,
                                                              taking
to itself    a yellow colour.      To assure himself that the mi
neral did not contain anv mercury, M. Thon rubbed                 oh-    it
a  plate of silver,  to  which    communicated
                                   it               yellowa colour.
    M. Tromsdorff tried, with the small quantity of the mi
neral v hich he had been able to procure, the following ex
periments:
    1. Five grains of the mineral we're put into        small cylin
                                                              a
der of glass, open on one side and exposed to the action of
fire.    1hey melted like wax, and spread         very strong sul
                                                       a
phurous odour.
    There was deposited on the sides, at the top white sub    a
limate, lower down        a  sublimate of yellow sulphur, lower
still an orange-coloured sublimate, and finally          crystalline
                                                              a
bl.ick sublimate, having         metallic lustre. The whole was
                                   a
then volatilized. — the cylinder was put sideways.
    2. Five grains of the fossil were exposed to heat with
some nitric acid     :  the mineral acquired     red-brick colour,
                                                      a
and the acid attacked          strongly, disengaging nitrous acid.
                              it
The solution was evaporated to dryness, and powder was        a
obtained of      a red colour which emitted        strong smell of
                                                       a
sulphur.     The powder was boiled with water, in which                       it
was dissolved excepting nearly          grain, which had the co
                                        a.
 lour of sulphur, and which burnt with the usual flame and
 smeil of that combustible.
    3. The solution (2.) contained some free nitric acid, and
 perhaps also sulphuric acid.         The redundant acid was sa
 turated with ammonia, and the solution was decomposed
by    several reagents.
   a. Prussiate of potash produced       beautiful green pre
                                                 a
cipitate.
    b. Hydro-sulphurel   of ammonia gave       shamoy-ycllow
                                                          a
precipitate.
   c. Tincture of gall nuts gave       deep.brown precipitate
                                             a
inclining  to blue,  which  after some  time became blueish
gray.
                                                                  d. Caustic

         New Metal     discovered     ly M, Tronudorjf.      215
  d. Caustic    ammonia in excess produced neither preci
pitate nor change or colour.
   These experiments prove that there was no iron, no cop
per, nor nickel, in the mineral ; but its manner of acting
with the reagents, to which it was submitted, made M.
Tromsdorff suspect the presence of a new metal, which
the above experiment demonstrated, and that this metal was
combined with sulphur, and was volatile.
   4. The shining alack sublimate was as well as possible
separated from the yellow, and put to digest- with nitric
Acid. It dissolved entirely, disengaging nitrous gas, and
formed a clear and colourless solution.        M. Tromsdorfl"
then saturated the excess of the acid by l:quid ammonia,
and successively decomposed it in portions with the above
reagents.    He obtained the same results as before.
   5. Some grains of the fossil were then heated with some
nitro-muriatic acid. It dissolved entirely, except a light
residue of a reddish yellow colour, which was apparently
sulphur in combination with some metallic particles.      The
solution when filtered was at first clear, but grew turbid oa
cooling.    It was saturated with ammonia, and decomposed
by the same reagents as formerly.       The results were the
same.
   6. Some grains of the fossil were put to digest with
muriatic acid.    It disengaged trom it sulphurized hydro
gen gas,   and  the fossil became brownish : however, the
acid attacked it but slowly.        The remainder of the fossil
was put to boil even to dryness with colourless sulphuric-
acid concentrated, and the residue «as diluted with water.
It dissolved itself entirely, except a ponder almost yellow,
which, when collected on the filter, washed and dried, burnt
like Rulphur.
   The solution had a reddish colour, and contained much
free acid.   It was tried by several reagents.
   a. Prussiate of potash produced a grccMi precipitate.
   1).
       Hydro-sulphuret of ammonia produced           a   shamoy
precipitate.
   c. Tincture of galls,  a  blucish gray precipitate.
  d.   Caustic alkali,a   white precipitate.
   e. Carbonate of potash, the same precipitate.
   7.  The two last precipitates remained white when ex
posed to the air.   They dissolved easily iu acetic acid, with
wh.ch they gave   a    colourless solution, which was divided,
and submitted to the following experiments     :
   c. In a part of the solution was put   a  small polished piece
                              0   4                           of

              New Metal discovered   ly M. Tromsdorff.
or copper money.    After twenty-four hours the piece was
covered with a grayish yellow crust, which, when rubbed
with a burm.sher, took the colour of shining iron.
   b. He divided the remaining part into three portions,
which he decomposed by prussiate of potash, hydro-sul-
phurc-t of ammonia,    and tincture of galls : exactly the
same results were obtained as in the preceding trials with
the same reagents.
  Having exhausted by these experiments his supply of
mineral, M. Tromsdorff was obliged to state his researches.
He concluded from the results, that the fossil forms a
combination of sulphur with a new metal. But he says he
cannot yet pronounce this with rigorous certainty.            It is
proved    that the fossil contains a metal, as much by its
manner of acting with the reagents, as by its precipitation
by copper, and by the metallic aspect of the substance which
it forms by sublimation.       And it is not doubtful that it
contains sulphur, since we can really separate tfiis sub
stance.
   The first experiment proved that this metal is volatile,
for it leaves not a single residue on the fire.    We know no
other metals that are volatile but mercury, bismuth, arsenic,
zinc, and antimony.         The metal in question cannot be
mercury ; for, besides its fluid form, this metal produces
vermilion in combination with sulphur, of which it has
not been possible here to discover the slightest trace.          It
cannot be bismuth, which is less volatile, and of which the
acid solutions are precipitated hy the prussiate of potash of
a yellowish colour, by hydro-sulphuret        of ammonia of a
blackish-brown colour, and by galls of a yellow greenish
colour.     It cannot be arsenic, or that would have dis
covered itself by the smell, and which besides would not
have yielded the phenomena observed.            Still less can it
be zinc, which requires a very strong hrat to volatilize        it,
which    isprecipitated   bythe reagents employed        by
                                                          our au
thor under quite different colours, and which, instead of
being precipitated by copper, does itself precipitate that
metal.     Finally, antimony   isprecipitated of   awhite colour
by  prussiate of potash, and orange       by hydro-sulphuret of
ammonia, and its solution in sulphuric acid        is  not at all
reddish, as      that of our metal. M. Tromsdorff concludes
                is
from all this, that the fossil he has examined      isin all pro
bability  a  combination of sulphur with       a metal    hitherto
unknown.
                                                       XLIII.   On

                              [   217     ]
XLIII.     On muscular Motion. By Anthonv Carlisle,
     Esq.   F.R.S.:  being the Croonian Lecture. Read before
     the Royal. Society November 8, 1804.
                      [Concluded from p. 123.]
J.  he following animals were put into separate glass ves
sels, each filled with a pound weight of distilled water, pre
viously boiled to expel the air, and the vessels inverted into
quicksilver; viz. one gold fish, one frog, two leeches, and
one fresh water muscle*.       These animals were confined
for several days, and exposed in the sun in the day-time,
during the month of January, the temperature being from
43° to 48° ; but no air bubbles were produced in the ves
sels, nor any sensible diminution of the water.      The frog
died on the third day, the fish on the fifth, the leeches on
the eighth, and the fresh water muscle on the thirteenth.
This unsuccessful experiment was made with the hope of
ascertaining the changes produced in water by the respira
tion of aquatic animals, but the water had not undergone
any chemical alteration.
   Animals of the class mammalia, which hybernate, and
become torpid in the winter, have at all times a power of
subsisting under a confined respiration, which would de
stroy other animals not having this peculiar habit.      In all
the hybernating mammalia there is a peculiar structure of
the heart, and its principal veins: the superior cava divides
into two trunks ; the left, passing over the left auricle of
the heart, opens into the inferior part of the right auricle,
near to the .entrance of the vena cava inferior.     The veins
usually  called azygos  accumulate    into two  trunks, which
open each into the branch of the vena cava superior, on its
own side of the thorax. The intercostal arteries "and veins
in these animals are unusually large.
   This tribe of quadrupeds have the habit of rolling up their
bodies into the form of a ball during ordinary sleep, and
they invariably assume the same attitude when in the torpid
state : the limbs are all folded into the hollow made bY the
bending of the body ; the clavicles, or first ribs, and the
sternum, are pressed against the fore part of the neck, so
as to interrupt the flow of blood which supplies the head,
and to compress the trachea : the abdominal viscera and
the hinder limbs are pushed against the diaphragm, so as
 to interrupt it3 motions, and to impede the flow of blood
 through the large vessels which penetrate        and the lon-
                                                 it,
                          •   Mytilusanatinuf.
                                                       gitudinal

S18                   On muscular Motion.
gitudinal extension of the cavity of the thorax is entirely
obstructed.    Thus a confined circulation of the blood i»
carried on through the heart, probably adapted to the last
weak actions of life, and to its gradual recommencement.
   This diminished respiration is the first step into the state
of torpidity ; a deep sleep accompanies it ; respiration then
ceases altogether ; the animal temperature       is totally de
stroyed; coldness and insensibility take place; and finally,
the heart concludes its motions, and the muscles cease te
be irritable.   It is worthy of remark, that a confined air,
and a confined respiration, ever precede these phenomena -.
the animal retires from the open atmosphere, his momh
and nostrils are brought into contact with his chest, and
enveloped in fur; the limbs become rigid, but the blood
never coagulates     during the dormant state.       On being
roused, the animal yawns, the respirations are fluttering,
the heart acts slowly and irregularly, he begins to stretch
out his limbs, and proceeds in quest of food.      During this
dormancy, the animal may be frozen without the destruc
tion of the muscular irritability ; and this always happens
to the garden snail*, and to the chrysalides of many insects
during the winter of this climate.
   The loss of motion and sensation from the influence of
low temperature accompany each other, and the capillaries
of the vascular system appear to become contracted by the
loss of animal heat, as in the examples of numbness from
cold.    W hether the cessation of muscular action be owing
to the impeded influence of the nerves, or to the lowered
temperature of the muscles themselves, is doubtful ; but the
known influence of cold upon the sensorial system, rather
favours the supposition that a certain temperature is neces
sary for the transmission of nervous influence as well as
sensation.
   The hybernating animals require a longer time in drown
ing than others. A fiHl grown hedge-hog was submersed
in water at 48°, and firmly retained there : air bubbles be
gan instantly to ascend, and continued during four minutes:
the animal was not yet anxious for its liberty.     After seven
minutes it began to look about, attempting to escape ; at
ten minutes it rolled itself up, only protruding the snout,
which was hastily retracted on being touched with the
finger, and even the approach of the finger caused it to re
tract. After fifteen minutes complete submersion, the ani
mal still remained rolled up, and withdrew its nose on being
                         • Helix nemoralis.
                                                       touched.

                        On muscular Motion.                   219
touched.      After remaining thirty minutes under water, the
animal was laid upon flannel, in an atmosphere of 62°, with
its head inclined downwards ; it soon began to relax the
sphincter muscle whicii contracts the skin, slow respira
tions commenced, and it recovered entirely, without arti
ficial aid, after two hours.     Another heJge-hog, submersed
in water at 94°, remained quiet until after five minutes ;
about the eighth minute it stretched itself out, and expired
at the tenth.       It remained relaxed and extended after th«
cessation of the vital functions ; and its muscles were re
laxed, contrary to those of the animal drowned in the colder
water.
     The irritability of the heart is inseparably connected with
 respiration.     Whenever the inhaled gas differs in its pro
 perties from the common atmosphere, the muscular and
 sensible parts of the system exhibit the change ; the actions
 of the heart are altered or suspended, and the whole mus»-
 cular and sensorial systems partake of the disorder; the
 temperature of animals, as before intimated, seems altoge
 ther dependent on the respiratory functions, although it
 still remains uncertain in what manner this is effected.
     The blood appears to be the medium of conveying heat
 to the different parts of the body; and the changes of ani
 mal temperature in the same individual at various times, or
 in its several parts, are always connected with the degree of
 rapidity of the circulation.     It is no very wide stretch of
 physiological deduction to infer, that this increased tempe
 rature is produced by the more frequent exposure of the
 mass of blood to the respiratory influence, and the short
 time allowed in each circuit for the loss of the acquired
 heat.
     The blood of an animal is usually coagulated immediately
 after death, and the muscles are contracted; but in some
 peculiar modes of death, neither the one nor the other of
 these effects is produced : with such exceptions, the two
 phenomena are concomitant.
     A preiernatural increase of animal heat delays the coagu
 lation of the blood, and the last contraction.-- of ihe mus
  cles : these contractions gradually disappear        before any
 changes    from    putrefaction are  manifested ; b-lt the cup in
  the coagulum of blood does not relax in the same manner;
 hence it may be inferred that the final contraction of mus
 cles is not the coagulation of the blood contained in them ;
 neither is it a change in the reticular membrane, nor in the
 blood-vessels, because such contractions are not general
  throughout those substances.       The coagulation of the blood
                                                                 is

 220                   On muscular Motion.
is a certain criterion of death.   The reiterated visitations of
blood are not essential to muscular irritability, because the
limbs of animals, separated from the body, continue for a
long time afterwards capable of contractions and relaxa
tions.
   The constituent elementary materials of which the pecu
liar animal and vegetable substances consist, are not sepa
rable by any chemical processes hitherto instituted, in such
manner as to allow of a recombination into their former
state.   The composition of these substances appears to be
naturally of transient duration, and the attractions of the
elementary materials which form the gross substances are
so loose and unsettled, that they are all decomposed without
the intervention of any agent, merely by the operation of
their own elementary parts on each other.
   An extensive discussion of the chemical properties at
taching to the matter of muscle would be a labour unsifted
to this occasion : I should not, however, discharge my pre
sent duty, if I omitted to say that all such investigations
can only be profitable when effected by simple processes,
and when made upon the raw materials of the animal fabric,
such, perhaps, as the albumen of cge,s, and the blood. But
until, by synthetical experiments, the peculiar substances
of animals arc composed from what are considered to be
elementary materials, or the changes of organic secretion
imitated by art, it cannot be hoped that any determinate
knowledge should be established upon which the physiology
of muscles may be explained. Such researches and inves
tigations promise, however, the most probable ultimate suc
cess ; since the phenomena are nearest allied to those of
chemistry, and since all other hypotheses have, in their
turns, proved unsatisfactory.
Facts and Experiments tending to support and illustrate the
                      preceding Argument.
   An emaciated horse was killed by dividing the medulla
spinalis, and the large blood-vessels under the first bone of
the siernum.
   The temperature of the flowing blood was 103°
                              Spleen        -     103
                              Stomach      -      101
                              Colon        -       98
                              Bladder of urine     97
                              Atmosphere       -   30
   Three pigs, killed by a blow on the head, and by the
immediate division of the large arteries and veins, entering
                                                             the

                       On muscular Motion.                    221
the middle of the basis of the heart, had the blood flowing
from these vessels of 106, 106£,aad 107°; the atmospheric
temperature being at 31°.
     An ox, killed in a similar manner, the blood 1 03°; at
mosphere 50°.
     Three sheep, killed by dividing the carotid arteries, and
internal jugular veins : their blood 105, 105, 105£°; atmo
 sphere 4 1°.
     Three frogs, kept for many days in an equable atmo
sphere at 54° ; their stomachs 62°.
     The watery fluid issuing from a person tapped for dropsy
of the belly 101°; the atmosphere being 43°, and the tem
 perature of the superficies of the body at 96°.
     These temperatures are considerably higher than the com
 mon estimation.
     A man-s arm being introduced within a glass cylinder, it
 was duly closed at the end which embraced the h«d of the
 humcrus ; the vessel being inverted, water at 97° was poured
 in, so as to fill it. A ground brass plate closed the lower
 aperture, and a barometer tube communicated with the
 water at the bottom of the cylinder.        This apparatus, in
 cluding    the arm,  was  again  inverted, so that the birometer
 tube became a gage, and no air was suffered to remain in
 the apparatus.      On the slightest action with the muscles of
 the hand, or fore-arm, the water ascended rapidly in the
 gage, making librations of six and eight inches length in
 the barometer tube on each contraction and relaxation of
  the muscles.
     The remarkable effects of crimping fish by immersion in
  water, after the usual signs of life have disappeared, are
  worthy of attention ; and whenever the rigid contractions
 of death have not taken place, this process may be prac
  tised with success.    The sea fish destined for crimping are
  usually struck on the head when caught, which, it is said,
  protracts the term of ttiis capability ; and the muscles
  which retain this property longest are those about the
  head.      Many transverse sections of the muscles beine;
  made, and the fish immersed in cold water, the contrac
  tions called crimping take place in about five minutes ;
  but, if the mass be large, it often requires thirty minutes to
  complete the process.
      Two flounders, each weighing 1926 grains, the one being
   in a state for crimping, the other dead and rigid, were put
   into water at 48°, each being equally scored with a knife.
   After half an hour the crimped fish had gained in weight
                                                         53 grains,

 225                         On muscular Motion.
 53 grains, hut the dead fish had lost 7 grains.                The   specific;
 gravity of the crimped lish was greater than that               of the  dead
 fish ; out a quantity of air buooles adhered to the surfaces
of the crimped muscles, which were rubbed off before
 weighing : this gas was not inflammable.
     The specific gravity of         the crimped fish         -      1-105
                                 of   the dead fish, after an
                                   equal immersion in water 1-090
     So that the accession of water, specifically lighter than
the muscle of fish, did not diminish the specific gravity of
crimped muscle, but the contrary : a proot that condensa
tion had taken place.
     A piece of cod fish, weighing twelve pounds, gained in
weight, by crimping, rwo ounces avoirdupois ; and another
less vivacious pieci-, of fifteen pounds, gained one ounce
and      half*.
     The hinder limb of a frog, having the skin stripped off,
and weighing 77-iV grains, was immersed in water at 54°,
and suffered to remain nineteen hours, when it had become
rigid, and weighed 1004- grains.                 The specific gravity of
the contracted fimb had increased, as in the crimped fish.
     630 grains weight of the subscapularis muscle of a calf,
which       had been killed two days from the I Oth of January,
was immersed in New River water at 45°. After ninety
minutes the muscle was contracted, and weighed in air
7 70 grains:         it had also increased in specific gravity* but
the quantity of air hubbies formed in the interstitial spaces
oi the reticular membrane made it difficult to ascertain the
degree.
     Some of the smallest fasciculi of muscular fibres from the
same veal, which had not been immersed in water, were
placed on a glass plate, in the field of a powerful micro
scope, and a drop of water thrown over them, at the tem
perature of 54°, the atmosphere in the room being 57°»
They instantly began to contract, and became tortuous.
     On confining the ends of another fibril with little weights
of glass, it contracted two-thirds of its former length, by
similar treatment. The same experiment was made on the
muscular fibres of lamb and beef, twelve hours after the
animals had been killed, with the like results. Neither vi-
    • I am informed that the
                                  crimping of fresh water 6shes require* hard
water, or suoi as does not suit the purposes of washing with soap.        Thin
(--.ct is substantiated by the practice of the London fishmongers, whose ex
perience has taught them to employ pump water, or what is commonly called
         water.
                                                                       negar,

                      On muscular Motion.                    $23
negar, nor water saturated with muriate of soda, nor strong
ardent spirit, nor olive oil, had any such effect upon the
muscular fibres.
     The amphibia, and coleopterous insects, become torpid
at 34°: at 36° they move slowly, and with difficulty ; and
at a lower temperature their muscles cease to be irritable.
The muscles of warm-blooded animals are similarly affected
by cold.
     The hinder limbs of a frog were skinned, and exposed to
cold at 30°, and the muscles were kept frozen for eight
hours; but on thawing them they were perfectly irritable.
     The same process was employed in the temperature of
20°, and the muscles kept frozen for twelve hours ; but
that did not destroy the irritability.
     In the heai of 100°, the muscles of cold-blooded animals
fall into the contractions of death ; and at 1 10°, all those of
warm blood, as far as these experiments have been extended.
The muscles of warm-blooded animals, which always con
tain more red particles in their substance than those of cold
blood, are soon deprived of their irritability, even although
their relative temperatures are preserved ; and respiration in
 the former tribe is more essential to life than in the latter.
     Many substances accelerate the cessation of irritability in
 muscles when applied to their naked fibrils, such as all the
 narcotic vegetable poisons, muriate of soda, and the bile of
 animals ; but they do not produce any other apparent change
 in muscles than that of the last contrae .ion. Discharges
 of electricity passed through muscles, destroy their irrita
 bility, but leave them apparently inflated with small bub
 bles of gas ; perhaps .some combination obtains which de
 composes the water.
      The four separated limbs of a recent frog were skinned,
 and immersed m different fluids ; viz. No. ) . in a phial con
 taining six ounces, by measure, of a saturated aqueous so
  lution of liver of sulphur made with potash; No. 2. in a
 diluted acetic acid, consisting of one drachm of concentrated
 acid to six of water ; No. 3. in a diluted alkali, composed
  of caustic vegetable alkali, one drachm, of water six ounces ;
 No. 4. in pure distilled water.
      The phials were all corkedi and the temperature of their
  contents was 46°.
      The limb contained in the phial No. 1, after remaining
  twenty minutes, had acquired a pale red colour, and the
  musctes were highly irritable.                        -
                                                             •
      The limb in No. 2, after the same duration, had become
   rigid, white, and swollen ; it was not at all irritable.    By
                     7                                 removing

 224                   Chi muscular     Motion.
removing the limb into a diluted solution of vegetable al
kali, the muscles were relaxed, but no signs of irritability
returned.
  No. 3. under all the former circumstances, retained its
previous appearances, and was irritable, but less so than
No.     1.
   No. 4.     had become rigid,   and    the   final contraction had
  taken place.
    Other causes of the loss of muscular irritability occur in
 pathological testimonies, some examples of which may not
 be ineligible for the present subject.       Workmen whose
 hands are unavoidably exposed to the contact of white lead,
 are liable to what is called a palsy in the hands and wrists,
 from a torpidity of the muscles of the fore arm. This affec
 tion seems to be decidedly local, because, in many instances,
 neither the brain nor the other members partake of the
 disorder ; and it oftenest affects the right hand. An inge
 nious practical chemist in London has frequently expe
 rienced spasms and rigidity in the muscles of his fore arms,
 from affusions of nitric acid over the cuticle of the hand
 and arm.     The use of mercury occasionally brings on a si
 milar rigidity in the masseter muscles.
    A smaller quantity of blood flows through a muscle during
 the state of contraction than during the quiescent state, as
 is evinced by the pale colour of red muscles when contracted.
The retardation of the flow of blood from the veins of the
 fore arm, during yenaesection, when the muscles of the
 limb are kept rigid, and the increased flow after alternate
relaxations, induces the probability, that a temporary retarda
 tion of the blood in the muscular fibrils takes place during
 each contraction, and that its free course obtains again during
 the" relaxation.   This state of the vascular system in a con
 tracted muscle, does not, however, explain the diminution
 of its bulk, although it may have some influence on the
 limb of a living animal.
    When muscles are vigorously contracted, their sensibility
 to pain is nearly des-royed: this means is employed by
jugglers for the purpose of suffering pins to be thrust into
 the calf of the leg, and other muscular parts, with impu
nity : it    is,
               indeed, reasonable to expect,    priori, that the
                                                  d
 sensation, and the voluntary influence, cannot pass along
the nerves at the same time.
    In addition to the influences already enumerated, the hu
man muscles are susceptible of changes from extraordinary
occurrences of sensible impressions.        Long continued at
tention to interesting visible objects, or to audible sensa
                                                           tions,

                       On muscular Motion.                   225
 ttons, are known to exhaust the muscular strength : intense
 thought and anxiety weaken the muscular powers, and the
 passions of grief and fear produce the same effect suddenly;
 whilst the contrary feelings, such as the prospect of imme
 diate enjoyment, or moderate hilarity, give more than or
 dinary vigour.
     It is a very remarkable fact in the history of animal na
 ture, that the mental operations may become almost auto
 matic, and, under such habit, be kept in action, without
 any interval of rest, far beyond the time which the ordinary
 state of health permits, as in the examples of certain ma
 niacs, who are enabled, without any inconvenience, to exert
 both mind and body for many days incessantly.         The ha
bits of particular modes of labour and exercise are soon ac
 quired, after which the actions become automatic, demand
 little attention, cease to be irksome, and are affected with
little fatigue : by this happy provision of nature, the habit
 of industry becomes a source of pleasure, and the same ap
pears to be extended to the docile animals which co-operate
 with man in his labours.
     Three classes of muscles are found in the more compli
cated animals.      Those which are constantly governed by
 the will, or directing power of the mind, are called volun
tary muscles.      Another class, which operate without the
 consciousness of the mind, are denominated involuntary :
and a mixed kind occur in the example of respiratory mus
cles, which are governed by the will to a limited extent :
nevertheless the exigencies of the animal feelings eventually
urge the respiratory movements in despite of the will.
These last muscles appear to have become automatic by the
continuance of habit.
    The uses of voluntary muscles are attained by experience,
imitation, and instruction ; but some of them are never
called into action among Europeans, as the muscles of the
external ears, and generally the occipito-frontalis.       The
purely involuntary muscles are each acted upon by different
substances, which appear to be their peculiar stimuli ; and
theee stimuli co-operate with the sensorial influence in pro
ducing their contractions : for example, the bile appears to
be the appropriate stimulus of the muscular fibres of the
alimentary canal below the stomach, because the absence
of it renders those passages torpid. The digested aliment,
or perhaps the gastric juice in a certain state, excites the
stomach. The blood stimulates the heart, light the iris of
the eye, and mechanical pressure seems to excite the mus
cles of the cesophagus.      The last cause may perhaps be il-
    Vol. 23. No. "I. Dec. 1805.       P              luatrated

226                   On muscular Motion.
lustrated by the instances of compression upon the volun
tary muscles, when partially contracted, of which there arc
many familiar examples. Probably the muscles of the ossi-
cula auditus are awakened by the tremors of sound ; -and
this may be the occasion of the peculiar arrangement ob
servable in the chorda tympani which serves those muscles.
    These extraneous stimuli seem only to act in conjunction
with the sensorial power derived by those muscles from the
gangliated nerves, because the passions of the mind alter
the muscular actions of the heart, the alimentary canal, the
respiratory muscles, and the iris ; so that, probably, the re
spective stimuli already enumerated, only act subserviently,
by awakening the attention of the sensorial power, (if that
 expression may be allowed,) and thereby calling forth the
nervous influence, which, from the peculiar organization
 of the great chain of sympathetic nerves, is effected without
 consciousness ; for, when the attention of the mind, or the
 more interesting passions prevail, all the involuntary mus
 cles act irregularly and unsteadily, or wholly cease.     The
 movements of the iris of the common parrot are a striking
 example of the mixed influence.
    The muscles of the lower tribes of animals, which are
 often entirely supplied by nerves coming from ganglions,
 appear of this class ; and thus the animal motions are prin
 cipally regulated by the external stimuli, of which the oc
 currence seems to agree with the animal necessities : but
 the extensive illustrations which comparative anatomy af
 fords on this point, are much too copious for any detail in
 this place.
    There arc two states of muscles ; one active, which is that
 of contraction ; the other, a state of ordinary tone, or re
 laxation, which may be considered passive, as far as it re
 lates to the mind ; but the sensorial or nervous power seems
 never to be quiescent, as it respects either the voluntary
 or involuntary muscles during life. The yielding of the
 sphincters appears to depend on their being overpowered by
 antagonist muscles, rather than on voluntary relaxation, as
 is commonly supposed.
     I have now finished this endeavour to exhibit the more
 recent historical facts connected with muscular motion.
     Ft will be obvious to every one, that much remains to be
  done before any adequate theory can be proposed.       I have
  borrowed from the labours of others without acknowledg
  ment, because it would be tedious to trace every fact, and
  every opinion, to its proper authority ; many of the views
  are perhaps peculiar to myself, and I have adduced many
                                                        general

   On the Mines and Manufactures                   of the East Indies.             227
general   assumptions and conclusions, without offering the
  articular evidence for their confirmation, from a desire to
E eep in view the remembrance of retrospective accounts,
and to combine them with intimations for future research.
The - due cultivation of this interesting pursuit cannot fail
to elucidate many of the phaenomena in question, to remove
premature and ill-founded        physiological opinions,   and
eventually   to aid in rendering  the medical  art more  bene
ficial, by establishing its doctrines on more extensive and                               -
accurate views of the animal reconomy.
XLIV.     Information on the Mines and Manufactures                           of   the
  East Indies, and other           Subjects.           By   J.   MACHLACHLAN,
  Esq. of Calcutta*.
     SIR,
OHOULD you think        the enclosed   receipts for dyeing the
beautiful reds of the Coromandel coast can be of any use
to the dyers of the united British kingdom, be pleased to
lay them before the Society for the Encouragement of Arts,
&c. that they may be published in the volume of their Trans
actions ; if not, I trust you will excuse my troubling you
with them. They were sent to me from Madras by a scien
tific friend, who had the several operations, detailed in them,
performed in his own presence.          I forwarded a copy of
them; and a small quantity of the ingredients mentioned
in them, to a friend at home, several years ago ; but he dy
ing about or soon after the time of their arrival, I never
learned what became of them.           It strikes me, however,
that there is a considerable coincidence between the thread
process and that which I have seen -recommended by Mr.
 Henry, of Manchester, for dyeing the Adrianople orTurkey
red.
    I am not certain whether it is known at home, that many
 of the hills in Bahar, and other parts of India, contain im
 mense q"antities of mica, talc, or Muscovy glass.          The
 natives of this country and China make very splendid lan
 terns, shades, and ornaments of        tinged of various fanci
                                                 it,
 ful colours   ; and     it  also used
                              is                       by
                                            them in medicine.
 When burned or calcined,                  is,
                                       am told, considered as
                                      it       I                                     a
 specific in obstinate coughs and consumptions.           When
 powdered     itserves to silver the Indian paper, &c. used ia
  • From Transnctiom
                       of Ike Socirt-i nf Arts, &c.     1   804, which voted its silver
medal to the author lor the cummu.iic.ciun.
                                    P      2                                   letter

  228   On the Mines and Manufactures                           of the Easl Indies.
  letter-writing ; and, in fact, it is applied to numberless pur
  poses.   The  bazar price of that of the best quality, split
  into sheets of about two lines thick, is six rupees the maund
  of eighty-four pounds avoirdupois.        it could be applied If
  to any useful purpose at home, it might go in part ballast
  of ships, and at a trifling expense. I enclose a small speci
  men of      it, and am, sir,
                                            Your         very obedient servant,
  Calcutta, Oct. 4, 1803,                                           J.   MACHLACHLAN.
     N. B. The chaya, or red dye root of the coast, be                           is,
                                                                                  I
  lieve, known at home as also the cashan leaves, which
                                   :
  are used as in astringent.
      Charles Taylor,
 Directions       for   dyeing    bright Red, four Yards
                                   a                                             of   three-
                        quarters broad  Cotton Cloth.
       1st, The cloth      to be well washed and dried, for the
                             is
    purpose of clearing        of lime and congee, or starch, ge
                                  it
    nerally used in India for bleaching and dressing cloths                                 ;
    then put into an earthen vessel, containing twelve ounces
    of chaya or red dye root, with gallon of water, and allow
                                                    a
 it   to boil a  short time over the fire.
       2d, The cloth being taken out, washed in clean water,
    and dried In the sun,      again put into
                                  is             pot with one ounce
                                                                a
    of myrabolans, or galls coarsely powdered, and gallon of                 a
   clear water, and allowed to boil to one half; when cool, add
   to the mixture      quarter of
                        a              pint of buffalo-s milk. The
                                                a
   cloth being fully soaked in this, take         out, and dry  it in                  it
   the sun.
      3d, Wash the cloth again in clear cold water, and dry                                 it
   in the sun then immerse
              ;                     into gallon of water,
                                           it           a      quar              a
   ter of pint of buffalo-s milk, and
         a                                    quarter of an ounce of
                                                            a
   the powdered galls. Soak wcU in this mixture, and dry                                    in
   the sun.     The. cloth, at this stage of the process, feeling
   rough and hard,       to be rolled up and beetled till
                            is                                   be               it
   comes soft.
      4th, Infuse into six quarts of cold water six ounces of
   red wood shavings, and allow           to remain so two days.
                                                    it
  On the third day boil         down to two-thirds the quantity,
                                  it
  when the liquor will appear of          good bright red colour.
                                                    a
  To every quart of this, hefoie        cools, add
                                                it     quarter of an     a
  ounce of powdered alum         soak in
                                       ;     your cloth twice over,
                                                         it
  drying it   between each time in the shade.
'
      5th, After three days wash in clean water, and half dry
  in the sun  ;   then immerse the cloth into five gallons of
                                                             water,

  On Ike Mines and Manufactures               of the East Indies.   229
water, at about the temperature of one hundred and twenty
degrees of Fahrenheit, adding fifty ounces of powdered
chaya, and allowing the whole to boil for three hours ;
take the pot off the fire, but let the cloth remain in it until
the liquor is perfectly cool ; then wring it gently, and hang
it up in the sun to dry.
   6th, Mix intimately together, by hand, about a pint
measure of fresh sheep's dung, with a gallon of cold water,
in which soak the cloth thoroughly, and immediately take
it out, and dry it in the sun.
    7th, Wash the cloth well in clean water, and spread it
out in the sun on a sand-bank (which in India is univer
 sally preferred to a grass-plat) for six hours, sprinkling it
from time to time, as it dries, with clean water, for the
 purpose of finishing and perfecting the colour, which will
 be of a very fine bright red.
Calcutta, Oct. 4,1803.                            J.   MACHlaCHlaN.
   Charles Taylor, Esq.
Directions    for     dyeing   of a beautiful Red, eight Ounces          of
                               Cotton Thread.
    1st, Put one gallon and a half, by measure, of sap-wood
ashes, into au earthen pot, with three gallons of water, and
allow the mixture to remain twenty-four hours to perfect it
for use.
    ed, Put the following articles into an earthen pot, viz.
Three-quarters of a pint of Gingelly oil ; one pint, by
measure, of sheep's dung, intimately mixed by hand in wa
ter ; two pints of the above ley.      After mixing these ingre
dients well, pour the mixture gradually upon the thread into
another vessel, wetting it only as the thread, by being
squeezed and rolled about by the hand, imbibes                it,
                                                        continu
ing to do so until the whole          completely soaked up, and
                                         is
 allow the thread to remain in this state until next day.
    3d, Take     up, and put
                 it             in the sun to dry
                                    it               then take
                                                          ;               a
pint and     ahalf of ash.ley, in which squeeze and roll the
thread well, and allow      to remain till next day.
                               it
    4th, Squeeze and roll          like quantity ot ash-ley, and
                                 it
                                 in      a
put    it in the sun to dry     when dry, squeeze and roll
                                    ;                                    it
again in the ley, and allow      to remain till next day.
                                    it
   5  th, Let the same process be repeated three or four times,
and intermit till next day.
    6th, Ley the thread once, as the day before, and, when
well dried in the sun, prepare the following liquor One             :
 gill of Gingelly oil     ;    one pint and     a   half of ash-ley. — In
                                    P    3                              this

S3O        On the Motion     of the Sun and Solar System.
this squeeze and roll the thread well, and leave it so till
next day.
    7th, Repeat the process of yesterday, and dry the thread
in the sun.
    8th, The same process to be repeated.
    9th, First repeat the ash-ley process three or four times,
as under the operations 3, 4, and 5, and then prepare the
following mixture: One pint of sheep-dung water; one
gill of Gingelly oil ; one pint and a half of ash-ley. — In
this squeeze and roll the thread well, and dry it in the
sun.
    10th, Repeat the same process.
     llth, Do.                    do.
    12th, Do.                     do.
    13th, Do.                     do.
     14th, Do.                    do.
     15th, Wash the thread in clean water, and squeeze and
 roll it in a cloth until almost dry ; then put it into a vessel
 containing a gill of powdered chaya root, one pint by mea
 sure of cashan leaves, and ten pints of clear water ; in thip
liquor squeeze and roil it about well, and allow it to remain
 so till next day.
     16th, Wring the thread, and dry it in the sun, and re
 peat acain the whole of the 1 5th process, leaving the thread
 to steep.
     17th, Wring it well, dry it in the syn, and repeat the
 same process as the day before.
     18th, Do.                    do.
     i9th, Do.                    do.
     20th, Wring and dry it in the sun, and with the like
 quantity of chaya root in ten pints of water boil the thread
 tor three hours, and allow it to remain in the infusion un
 til cold.
     21st, Wash the thread well in clear water, dry it in the
 sun, and the whole process is complete.
 Calcutta, Oct. 4, 18C3.                            J.   MACHLACHLAN.
 XLV.       On the Direction and Velocity of the Motion of the
      Sun and Solar System.                By WILLIAM HERSCHEL,
     LL.D.F.R.S*
  OUR      attention has lately been directed again to the con
  struction of the heavens, on which I have already delivered
             • From the Transactions         Royal Society for 1805.
                                      of the
                                                                     several

          On the Motion       of the Sun and Solar System.    231
several detached papers.     The changes which have taken
place in the relative position of double stars, have ascer
tained motions in many of them, which are probably of the
same nature with those that have hitherto been called pro
per motions.      It  is well known that many of the principal
stars have been     found to have changed their situation, and
 we have lately had a most valuable acquisition in Dr. Mas-
 kelyne-s table of proper motions of six-and-lhirty of them.
 If this table affords us a proof of the motion of the stars of
 the first brightness, such as are probably in our immediate
 neighbourhood, the changes of the position of minute
 double stars that I have ascertained, many of which can
 only be seen bv the best telescopes, likewise prove that mo
 tions are equally carried on in the remotest parts of space
 which hitherto we have been able to penetrate.
    The proper motions of the stars have long engaged the
 attention of astronomers, and in the year I763 I deduced
 from them, with a high degree of probability, a motion of
 the sun and solar system towards X Herculis.      The reasons
 which were then pointed out for introducing a solar mo
 tion, will now be much strengthened by additional consi
 derations ; and the above-mentioned table of well-ascer
 tained proper motions will also enable us to enter rigo
 rously into the necessary calculations for ascertaining its
 direction, and discovering its velocity.   When these points
 arc established, we shall oe prepared to draw some conse
 quences from them that will account for many phxnomena
 which otherwise cannot be explained.
    The scope of this paper, wherein it is intended to assign
 not only the direction, but also the velocity of the solar
 motion, embraces an extensive field of observation and cal
 culation ; but as to give the whole of it would exceed the
 compass *Tif the present siicets, I shall reserve the velocity
 of the solar motion for an early future opportunity, and
 proceed now to a disquisition of the first part of my sub
ject, which is the direction of the motion of the sun and
solar   system.
            Reasons    for   admitting    a Solar   Motion.
  It may appear singular that, after having already long ago
pointed out a solar motion, and even fixed upon a star to-,
wards which 1 supposed it to be directed, I should again
think it necessary to show that we have many substantial
reasons for admitting such a motion at all.  What has in
duced inc to enter into this inquiry     that some of the
                                              is,
                                  P   4       consequences

 232         On the Motion       of the Sun and Solar System.
 consequences hereafter to be drawn from a solar motion,
 when established, seem to contradict the very intention for
 which it is to be introduced. The chief object in view,
 when a solar motion was proposed to be deduced from ob-
 servatidns of the proper motions of stars, was to take away
 many of these motions by investing the sun with a contrary
 one.    But the solar motion, when its existence has been
 proved, will reveal so many concealed real motions, that
 xve shall have a greater sum of them than it would be ne
             to1
             admit,    the sun were at rest
                        if                      and, to remove
 cessary                                                ;
 this objection, the necessity for admitting its motion ought
 to be well established.
                        Theoretical Considerations.
    A view of the motion of the moons, or secondary planets,
 round their primary ones, and of these again round the sun,
 may suggest the icka of an additional motion of the latter
 round some other unknown centre            and those who like to
                                               ;
 indulge     infanciful reviews of the heavens, might easily
 build   a system upon hypotheses not altogether without
 some plausibility in their favour.    Accordingly we find that
 Mr. Lambert, in work which
                        a               full of the most fantastic
                                          is
 imaginations, has framed        system wherein the sun
                                      a                       sup   is
 posed to move about the nebula in Orion *.          But, setting
 aside the extravagant idea of making this luminous spot
a  centre of motion,      must certainly be admitted that the
                            it
solar motion itself     at least
                         is        very possible event.
                                      a
 I    have already mentioned, in      note to my former paperf,
                                          a
that the possibility of      solar motion has also been shown
                                 a
from theoretical principles by the late Dr. Wilson, of Glas
gow  ;  and its probability afterwards, from reasons of th«
same nature,        Mr. de
                   by          Lande.
                                 la      The rotatory motion of
the sun, from which he concludes          displacing of the solar
                                               a
centre, must certainly be allowed to indicate           motion of
                                                            a
translation in space     for though
                          ;              may   be
                                              it  possible,   does  it
not appear probable, that any mechanical impression should
have given the former, without occasioning the latter.
But, as we are entirely unacquainted with the cause of the
rotfitory motion, the solar translation            in
                                              space from theore-.
tical reasons, can only be admitted as         very plausible hy
                                                    a
pothesis.
    Itwould he worth while for those who have fixed instru
ments, to strengthen this argument                 by
                                              observing the stars
         *   See Sysume rf« Munde de Mr. Lambert, p. 152 and 158.
         f   See PhihTruis. for the year 1783, p. 283.
                                                                    which

          On the Motion      of the Sun and Sokr System.             533
which are known to change their magnitudes periodically.
For, as we have great reason to ascribe these regular changes
to a rotatory motion of the stars*, a real motion in space
may be expected to attend it ; and the number of these
stars is so considerable, that their concurring testimony
would be very desirable.
    Perhaps Algol, which according to these idea6 must hare
a very quick rotatory motion, may be found to have also a
considerable progressive one ; and if that should be ascer
tained, the position of the axis of the rotation of this stajr
will be in a great measure thereby discovered.
    An argument from the real motion to a rotatory one is
nearly of equal validity, and therefore all the stars that have
a motion in space may be surmised to have also a rotation
on their axes.
               Symptoms       of parallactic Motions.
    But, setting aside   theoretical arguments, I shall now pro-
peed to such as may be drawn from observation ; and as all
parallactic motions are evident indications that the observer
of them is not at rest, it will be necessary to explain three
sorts of motions, of which the parallactic is one ; they will
often engage our attention in the following discussion.
    Let the sun be supposed to move towards a certain part
of the heavens; and smce the whole solar system will have
the same motion, the stars must appear to an inhabitant of
the earth to move in an opposite direction.              In the triangle
spa, (Plate VI II.) Fig. 1, let sp represent the parallactic
motion of a star ; then, if this star is one that has no real
motion, s p will also be its apparent motion ; but if the star
in the same time, that by its parallactic motion it would
have gone from s to p, should have a real motion which
would have carried it from s to %, then will it be seen to
move along the diagonal s a, of the parallelogram srpa\
and p a, which is parallel and equal to s r, will represent its
real motion.      Therefore, in the above-mentioned triangle
                I
spa, which suppose to be formed in the concave part of
 the heavens by three arches of great circles, the eye of the
observer being in the centre, the three sides will represent,
or stand for, the three motions I have named : s p the pa
 rallactic, p a the real, and s a the apparent motion of the
star. The situation and length of these arches, in seconds
of a degree, will express, or rather represent, not only the
 direction but also the quantity of each motion, such as it
                • See Phil. Trans. for the year 1795, p 68.
                                                                   must

 234       On tlie Motion    of Ike Sun and Solar System.
 must appear to an eye in the above-mentioned central situa
 tion.    And calling the solar motion S, the distance of the
 star from the sun d, and the sine of the star-s distance from
 the point towards which the sun'is moving p, the parallac-
 tic motion, when these are given, will be had by the ex
 pression   li.   =  5 p.   This theorem,     and  its corollaries, of
which frequent        use will be made hereafter, it wiH not be
necessary     here to demonstrate.
    When I call the arch p a the real motion, it should be
understood that I only mean its representative ; for it must
be evident that the absolute "nfotion of a star in space, as
-well as its intrinsic velocity, will still remain unknown, be
 cause the inclination of that motion on which also its real
velocity will depend, admits of the greatest variety of di
 rections.      We arc only acquainted with the plane in which
 the motion must be performed, and with the length of the
 arch in seconds by which that motion may be measured.
 We may add that the chords of the arches representing the"
 three motions are the smallest velocities of these motions
 that can be admitted ; for in every other direction but at
 right angles to the line of sight, the actual space over which
 the star will move must be greater than the arch or chord
 6y which its motion is represented.
    Now, since a motion of the sun will occasion parallactic
 motions of the stars, it follows that these again must indi
 cate a solar motion ; but in order to ascertain whether pa
 rallactic motions exist, we ought to examine those stars
 which are most liable to be visibly affected by solar motion.
 This requisite points out the brightest stars as the most pro
 per for our purpose ; for any star may have a great real mo
 tion, but in order to have a great parallactic one, it must
 be in the, neighbourhood of the sun.          And as wevcan only
judge     of  the  distance   of  the  stars  by their splendour, we
 ought    to  choose   the brightest,  on   account  of a probability
 that, being nearer than faint ones, they may be more within
 the reach of parallax, aud thus better qualified to show its
 effects.
    We are also to look out for a criterion whereby paral
 lactic may be distinguished from real motions ; and this
 we find in thtir directions.       For, if a solar motion exists,
 all parallactic motions will tend to a point in opposition to
 the direction of that motion ; whereas real motions will be,
 dispersed    indiscriminately to all parts of space.
    With    these distinctions   in view, we may examine the pro
                                                                   per

          On the Motion     of the Sun and Solar        System.     233
per motions of the principal stars ; for these^ if the sun is
not at rest, must either be entirely parallactic, or at least
composed of real and parallactic motions ; in the latter case
they will fall under the denomination of one of the three
motions we have denned, namely s a, the apparent motion
of the star.
    In consequence of this principle           I   have delineated the
meeting      of  the   arches   arising   from    a  calculation of the
proper motions of the 36 stars in Dr. Maskelyne's cata
logue, on a celestial globe ; and, as all great circles of a
sphere intersect each other in two opposite points, it will be
necessary to distinguish them both ; for, if the sun moves
to one of them, it may be called the apex of its motion ;
and as the stars will then have a parallactic motion to the
opposite one, the appellation of a parallactic centre may
 very properly be given to it. The latter falling into the
 southern hemisphere, among constellations not visible to
 us, I shall only mention their opposite intersections ; and
 of these I find no less than ten that are made by stars of the
 first magnitude, in a very limited part of the heavens, about
 the constellation of Hercules.           Upon all the remaining sur
 face of the same globe there is not the least appearance of
 any other than a promiscuous situation of intersections ; and
 pf these only a single one is made by arches of principal
 stars.
     The   ten   intersecting points made by the brightest stars
 are as follows : The 1st is by Sirius and Arcturus, in the
 mouth of the Dragon.           The 2d by Sirius and Capella, near
  the following      hand   of   Hercules.       The 3d by Sirius and
  Lyra,   between    the  hand    and   knee   of   Hercules.   The 4th
  by  Sirius  and  Aldebaran,    in  the  following leg     of Hercules.
  The 5th by Arcturus and Capella, north of the preceding
  wing of the Swan. The 6th by Arcturus and Aldebaran,
  in the neck of the Dragon.               The 7th by Arcturus and
  Procyon,    in  the  preceding     foot   of Hercules.      The 8th by
  Capella    and  Procyon,    south   of  the  following   hand  of Her
  cules. The 9th by Lyra and Procyon, preceding the fol
  lowing shoulder of Hercules.              And the 10th is made by
  Aldebaran and Procyon, in the breast of Hercules.
                                                                     The

336       On the Motion    of the Sun and Solar System.
    The following Table       gives  the calculated      situation of
these ten intersections    in right ascension      and   north polar
distance.
                               Tabk   I.
           No.     Right Ascension.      Polar Distance.
              1   255°    39'    50"     36°    41'    34"
             2    275      9     32      64     21     48
             3    272     23     58      58     23      24
             4    263    S5      38      44     39     47
             5    290      0     58      32       7    23
             6    267      2     19      33     57     80
             7    235      3     13      46     21     34
             8    272     51     49      73       7    56
             9    266    46      49      66     48      11
            10    260       1    29      60     50     34
    We might rest satisfied with having shown that the pa
 rallactic effect of which we are in search is plainly to be
 perceived in the motion of the brightest stars ; however,
 by way of further confirmation, we may take in some large
 stars of the next order, in whose motions evident marks of
the influence of parallax may likewise be perceived. When
 the intersections made by their proper motions and the
 arches in which the stars of the first magnitude are moving
 are examined, we find no less than fifteen which unite with
 the former ten, in pointing out the same part of the heavens
 as a parallactic centre.     It will be sufficient only to men
 tion the opposite points of the situation of these intersec
 tions, and the stars by which they are made, without giving
 a calculated table of them.
    The 1st is the following leg of Hercules, and is made by
 Sirius and /3 Tauri. The 2d is also in the following leg of
 Hercules, by Sirius and « Andromedae.             The 3d is in the
 following hand of Hercules, by Sirius and a Arietis.             The
 4th in the neck of the Dragon, by Arcturus and /S Tauri.
 The 5th between the Lyre and the northern wing of the
 Swan, by Capella and a Andromedae. The 6th near the
 following hand of Hercules, by Capella and a Arietis. The
  7th preceding the head of Hercules, by Lyra and (3 Tauri.
 The 8th b etween the Lyre and northern wing of the Swan,
  hy Lyra and a Andromedae.            The 9th in the following
                                                                  arm

          On the Motion   of the Sun and Solar System,         23-1
arm    of Hercules, by Lyra and « Arletis. The 10th in the
following leg of Hercules, by Aldebaran and ft Tauri. The
 1 tth in the following leg of Hercules,      by Aldebaran and a.
Andromedae.       The 12th in the head of Hercules, by Alde
baran and a Arietis. The 13th in the following arm of
Hercules, by Procyon and /3 Tauri. The 14th in the back
of Hercules, by Procyon and a. Andromedae. And the 1 5th
near the following arm of Hercules, is made by Procyon
and a Arietis.
    An argument like this, founded upon the most authentic
observations, and supported by the strictest calculations,
can hardly fail of being convincing.       And though only the
ten principal apices of the twenty-five that are given hare
been calculated, the other fifteen may nevertheless be de
pended upon as true to less than one degree of the sphere.
            Changes  in  the Position  of double Stars.
    We have lately seen that the alterations in the relative
situation of a great number of double stars may be ac
counted for by a parallactic metion.         Among the 56 stars
which I have given, the changes of more than half of them
appear to be of this nature ; and it will certainly be more
eligible to ascribe them to the effect of parallax than to ad
mit so many separate motions in the different stars ; espe
cially when it is considered, that if the alterations of the
angle of position were owing to a motion of the largest
star of each set, the direction of such motions must, in
contradiction to all probability, tend nearly to one particu
lar part of the heavens.
    This argument, drawn from the change of the position
of double stars, may be considered as deriving its validity
from the same source with the former, namely, the paral
lactic motions of at least 28 more stars, pointing out the
same apex of a soktr motion by their direction to its oppo
site parallactic centre.
                Incongruity   of proper Motions,
    It may be remarked that     the proper motions of the stars,
if they were in reality such   as they appear to be, would con
tain a certain incongruous mixture of great velocity and
extreme slowness.      Arcturus alone describes annually an
arch   of more than two seconds : Aldebaran hardly      one-tenth
and a quarter of a second : Rigel little more than      one-tenth
and a half: even Lyra moves barely three and            a quarter
tenths of a second, while Procyon has almost           four times
that velocity.    Out of 36 stars, whose proper motion we
                                            2                 have

 238     On the Motion oftlie Sun and Solar System*
have examined, there are 15 that do not reach two-tenths of
a second : ft Virginia moves seventy-seven hundredths,
and a Cygni only six.       But it will be shown, when the
direction and velocity of the solar motion come to he ex
plained, that these kind of incongruities are mere parallac-
tic appearances ; and that there is so general a consistency
among the real motions of the stars, that Arcturus is in
no respect singled out as a star whose motion is far beyond
the rest.
    By giving this remark a place among the reasons for ad
mitting a solar motion, it is not intended to lay any parti-.
cular stress upon it ; for it may be objected that our idea
of the congruence or harmony of the celestial motions can
be no criterion of their real fitness and symmetry.       But
when such discordant proper motions as those I have men
tioned in stars of no very different lustre are under consi
deration, and may be easily shown to be only parallactic
phenomena, the method by which this can be done must
certainly appear eligible, and, when added to many other
inducements; will throw some share of weight - into the
scale.
            Sidereal Occultation   of a small Stan
    Of nearly the same importance with the former argu
ment is the account of the occultation of a small star by a
large one, which I have given in my last paper.         When
the solar motion has been established, we shatl prove that
the vanishing of the small star near $ Cygni, as far as we
can judge at present, is only a parallactic disappearance.
It must Be granted that a real motion of the large star would
also explain the same phaenomenon ; but then again, this
star must be supposed to move towards the very same pa
rallactic centre which the changes in the position of other
double stars point out; and this cannot be probable.
                Direction   of the Solar System.
    From what has been said, I believe the expedience of
admitting a solar motion will not be called in question ;
our next endeavour therefore must be to investigate its
direction:
    To return to the before-mentioned intersections of the
arches, in which the proper motions of the stars are per
formed, I shall begin by proving that when the proper mo
 tions of two stars are given, an apex may be found, to which,
if the sun be supposed to move with a certain velocity, the
two given motions may then be resolved into apparent
                                                      changes.

           On the- Motion  of the Sun and Solar System.
rhanges, arising from sidereal parallax, the stars remaining
perfectly at rest.
     Let the stars be Arcturus and-Sirius, and their annual pro
 per motions as given in the Astronomer Royal-s Tables.
     When the annual proper motion of Arcturus, which is
 — 1",26 in right ascension, and+l",72 in north polar di
 stance, is reduced by a composition of motions to a single
 one, it will be in a direction which makes an angle of
 55° 29- 42" south-preceding with the parallel of Arcturus,
 and of a velocity so as to describe annually 2",08718 of a
 great circle.
     The annual proper motion of Sirius,— o",4 2 in right
 ascension, and + l",04 in north polar distance, by the same
 method of composition, becomes a motion of l",I 1528, in
 a direction which makes an angle of 68° 49' 41" south-
 preceding with the parallel of Sirius.
      By calculation, the arches in which these two stars
 move, when continued, will meet in what I have called
 their parallactic centre, whose right ascension is 75° 39' 5O",
 and south polar distance is 36° 41' 34". The opposite of
 this, or right ascension 255° 39' 50", and north polar di
 stance 36° 4 1' 34", is what we are to assume for the re
 quired apex of the solar motion.
      When a star is situated at a certain distance from the
  sun, which we shall call 1 ; and 90° from the apex of the
  solar motion, its parallactic motion will be a maximum.
  Let us now suppose the velocity of the sun to be such that
  its motion, to a person situated on this star, would appear to
  describe annually an arch of 2",84825, or, which is the
  same thing, that the star would appear to us, from the
  effect of parallax, to move over the above-mentioned arch
  in the same time.
      To apply this to Arcturus, we find by calculation that its
  distance from the apex of the solar motion is 47° 7' 6" ; its
  parallactic motion therefore, which is as the sine of that
  distance, will be 2",06718 ; and this, as has been shown,
  is the apparent motion which observation has established as
  the proper motion of Arcturus.
      In the next place, if we admit Sirius to be a very large
  star situated at the distance 1,6809 from us, and compute
   its elongation from the apex of the solar motion, we shall
   find it 138° 50' 14",5.    With these two data we calculate
   that its parallactic motion   will  be ^~d  = s p = l",11528  ;
   and this also agrees   with  the   apparent  motion which  has
                                                             been

     240     On Ike Motion of the Sun and Solar Systtnt*
    been   ascertained by observation   as the proper motion   of
    Sinus.
       Now since, according  to the rules of philosophizing, we
    ought not to admit more motionsthan will account for the
    observed changes in the situation of the stars, it would be
   wrong to have recourse to the motions of Arcturus and Si-
   rius, when that of the sun alone will account for them both;
   and this consideration would be a sufficient inducement for
   us to fix at once on the calculated apex, as well as on the
   relative distances that have been assigned to these stars, if
   other proper motions could with equal facility be resolved
  into similar parallactic appearances.    But from the nature
  of proper motions, it foltows, that when a third star does
  not lead us to the same apex as the other two, its apparent
  motion cannot be resolved by the effect of parallax alone.
  And to enhance our difficulties, the number of apices, that
  would be required to solve all proper motions into parallactic
  ones, increases not as the number of stars admitted to have
  proper motions, but, when their situation happens to be
  favourable, as the sum of an arithmetical series of natural
  numbers, beginning at 0, continued to as many terms as
 there are stars admitted : so that if two stars give only one
 apex, one star added to it will give three apices ; and ten,
 for instance, will give no less than 45, and so on.
      The method of reasoning which, on this subject, I have
 adopted, is so closely connected with astronomical observa
 tions that I shall keep them constantly in view ; and there
 fore shall illustrate what has been advanced, by taking in
 Capella as a third star. The three apices which then are
 pointed out will be that in the mouth of the Dragon, by
Arcturus and Sirius ; a second under the northern %ving of
 Cygnus, by Arcturus and Capella ; and a third in the fol
lowing hand of Hercules, by Sirius and Capella. The cal
 culation of them is in Table I.
     The annual proper motions of our third star in Dr. Mas-
kelyne-s Tables are +0",21 in right ascension, and + 0",44
in north polar distance; and by calculation these quantities
give an annual motion of o",46374 to Capella, in a direc
tion which makes an angle of 71° 35- 22",4 south-follow
ing with the parallel of this star.
     The distance of Capella from the same calculated apex
of the solar motion, by which we have already explained
the apparent motions of the other two stars, is 80° 54' 46";
and, admitting again the velocity of the sun towards the
same point as stated before, it will occasion a parallactic
                                                       motion

         On the Motion        of the Stln and Solar Sy stein.    241
hiotion of Capella, in a direction 89° 54' 48" south-follow
ing its parallel, amounting to 2,8125".     In this calcula
tion Capella has been taken fora star of the first magnitude,
supposing its distance from us to be equal to that of
Arcturus.
  By constructing then a triangle, the  three sides of which
will represent the~three motions which  every star must have
that is not at rest in space ; we have one of the sides, re
presenting the apparent motion of the star, equal to 0,4637";
the other side, beinsf the parallactic motion of the star,
 2,8125"; and the included angle 18° 19' 27". From these
 daw we obtain the third side, representing the real motion
 of the star, which will be 2,3757".      By the given situation
 of this triangle with respect to the parallel of declination
 of Capella, the angle of the real motion will also be had,
 which is 86° 34' 1 1" north-following the parallel of this
 star.   A composition of the parallactic and the real motion
  in the dirpctions we have assigned, will produce the annual
 apparent    motion which has been established         by obser
 vation.
     But to apply what has been said to our present purpose,
 it may be observed, that although we have accounted for
 the proper motion of our third star by retaining the same
 apex of the solar motion, which has given us an explana
  tion of the apparent motions of the other two, yet in doing
 this we have been obliged to assign a great degree of real
 motion to Capella ; and to this it may be objected, that we
 can have no authority to deprive Arcturus and Sirius of
 real motions, in order to give one of the same nature to our
 third star : and indeed to every star that has a proper mo
 tion which does not tend to the same parallactic centre as
 the motions of Arcturus and Sirius.
     This objection is perfectly well founded, and I have given
 the above calculation on purpose to show that, when we
 are in search of an apex for the solar motion, it ought to be
 so fixed upon as to be equally favourable to every star
which is proper for directing our choice.          Hence a pro
blem will arise, in our present case, how to find a point
whose situation among three given apices shall be so that,
if the sun-s motion be directed towards          it,
                                                  there may be
taken away the greatest quantity of proper motion possible
from the given three stars.       The intricacy of the problem
is  greater than at first it may appear, because        by
                                                         change
                                                             a
of the distance of the apex from any one of the stars> its pa
rallactic motion, which       as the sine of that distance, will
                              is
be affected
          ;    so that
                    it   is not the mere alteration of the«angle
    Vol. 23. No. 91. Dec. 1605.        O                      of

242       On    tine      Motion of ike Sun and Solar System.
of direction, which                       However, it will not be
                                   is concerned.
necessary to            into
                       enter   a  solution   of the problem ; for
it must be very evident that a much more complex one
would immediately succeed                     it,
                                     since three stars would cer
tainly not  be  sufficient   to  direct  us in our present endea
vour to find the best situation of an apex for the solar mo
tion  ;I shall therefore now leave these stars, and the apices
pointed  out         by
                 them,       order to proceed to
                                     in              more general a
view of the subject.
   We have already seen that the brightest stars are most
proper for showing the effect of parallax, and that in our
search after the direction of the solar motion, our aim must
be to reduce the proper motions of the stars to their lowest
quantities.    The six principal stars, whose intersecting
arches have been given, when their proper motions in right
ascension and polar distance are brought into one direction,
will have the apparent motions contained in the following
Table.
                              Table II.
  Names of the         Direction of the apparent         Quantities of the apparent
       Stars.                   Motions.                          Motions.
  Sirius - -           sso 49- -10,7" S. preceding           1,11528" per year
  Arcturus  -          55  -29 4i!,0  S. preceding           2,08718
  Capella -            71  35 2---,4 S. following            0,46374
  Lyra                 56   20 57,:)      N.follovicg        0,82435
  Aldebaran            76   29 37,3       S. following       0,1 "XI
  I-rocyon  -          50    '--   iM.s   S. preceding       1,23941
                          Siim of the apparent moti ins      5.35337"
   We must now recur to what has been said, when the con
struction of the triangle expressing the three motions of                              a
star, that      not at rest, was explained and, as we are to
                is                                           ;
find out   a solar motion which will require the least real
motion in our six stars, an attention to this triangle will be
of considerable use lor when the line
                                 ;             a, Fig.     which
                                                             p               1,
represents the real motion,        brought into the situation
                                              is
m a, where            perpendicular to
                     it     is             p, the real motion
                                                         s
which      required will then be
          is                       minimum.     a   also follows,      It
from the construction of the same triangle, that               the          if    by
choice of an apex for the solar motion we can lessen the
angle made at          the lines
                       *     by       and    a, we shall lessen
                                                .\   p       s
the quantity of real motion required to bring the star from
the parallactic line      m to the observed position a.
                               s   p
  It  has already been shown, in the case of Sirius and Arc
turus, that when two stars only are given, the line           may            s   p
                                                                                       be

           On the Motion   of (he Sun and Solar System.       243
be made to coincide with the lines s a, of both the stars,
whereby their real motions will be reduced to nothing.          It
has also been proved, by adding Capella to the former two,
that when three stars are concerned, some real motion must
be admitted in one of them.           Now, since all parallactic
motions are directed to the same centre, a single line may
represent the direction of the effect of the parallax, not
only of these three stars but of every star in the heavens.
According to this theory, let the line s P or 5 S, in Fig. 2,
stand for the direction of the parallactic motion of the stars;
and as in the foregoing Table we have the angles of the ap
parent motion of six stars with the parallel or each star, we
must now also compute the direction of the line 5 P or s S
with the parallels of the same stars. This may be done as
soon as an apex for the solar motion is fixed upon. The
difference between these angles and the former will give the
several parallactic angles P s a or S s a, required for an
investigation of the least quantity m a, belonging to every
star.
    For instance, let the point towards which we may sup
pose the sun to move, be A. Herculis ; and calculating the
required angles of the direction in which the effect of paral
lax will be exerted, with the six stars we have selected for
the purpose of our investigation, we find them as in the
 following Table.
                             Table   III.
       Angles   of the parallactic Motion with the Parallel.
        Sirius   - - - 32° 54' 8,5" south-preceding.
        Arcturus         -   17   23 45,7 south-preceding.
        Capella          -   85   10    3,9 south-following.
        Lyra       -     -   35   59 49,5   north-following.
        Aldebaran        -   71   21 35,4 south-following.
        Procyon          - 47 43 44,6 south-preceding.
     The difference between these parallactic and the former
 apparent angles, with the parallel of each star, will give
 the required angles for our second figure.        They will be as
  follows :
                              Table IV.
       Angles  of the apparent with    the parallactic  Motion.
        Sirius    -    -    35° 55' 32,2" south-following.
        Arcturus            38    5 56,3    south-following.
        Capella        -    13 34 41,5       south-following.
        Lyra      -    -    20 21     J,B north-preceding.
        Aldebaran      -      5    8   1,9  south-preceding.
        Procyon         -     2 18 39,9      south-following.
                                 Q*                             By

244       On tlie Motion           of the Sun and Solar System.
   By these angles, with the assistance of the lines so",
whose lengths represent the annual quantity of the appa
rent motions as given in our former table, the figure No. 2
has been constructed.     When the situation of these angles
is regulated as in that figure, we may draw the several lines
m a perpendicular to S P, and, by computation, their value
and sum will be obtained as follows :
                                        Table        V.
          Quantities and Sum                of the    least real Motions.
                  Sirius                -        -            0,65437
                  Arcturus              -        -            1,28784
                  Capella               -        -            0,10887
                  Lyra                  -        -            0,11281
                  Aldcbaran                      -            0,01104
                  Procyon               -        -            0,04998
                                              Sum             2,22491"
  The result of this investigation       that     admitting   is,            by             a
motion of the sun-; towards    Herculis, the annual proper
                                            x
motions of our six stars, of which (he sum     5,3537    may            is           ,
be reduced to real motions of no more than 2,2249".
  When first proposed
                   I        Herculis as an .apex for the solar
                                        K
motion,    it may be remembered that          reference to future
                                                               a
observations was made for obtaining greater accuracy *.
Such observations we have now before us, in the valuable
tables from which        have taken the proper motions of the
                           I
six stars ;   and   Ishall prove that, with their assistance, we
may fix on      a solar motion that will be considerably more
favourable.
    We have already shown, that to ascertain the precise
place of the best apex        attended with some difficulty; but
                               is
from the inspection of the figure which represents the quan
tities of real motion required when       Herculis     fixed upon,
                                                          A                  is
it will be seen that,          regular method of approximation,
                               by   a
we may turn the line       Pinto situation where all the angles
                               S             a
of the apparent motion of the six stars will be much reduced.
The quantities which are required for constructing .another
figure to represent the threefold motions of our six stars,
when  a   different apex      fixed upon^ are to bt found
                                is                             the                    by
same method we have pursued in the instance of Herculis                       x             ;
and the figure that has been given with respect to that star,
shows evidently that the parallactic line        should be turned
                                                                S   P
      •   See   Phil. Trans, for    1783, p. 273, line        8
                                                              ;     and p. 274, line 4.
            3                                                                             more

             On the   Motion of the Sun and Solar System.                    245
more towards the line sa, representing the apparent motion
of Sirius.       We shall accordingly try a point near the fol
lowing       knee  of Hercules, whose right ascension is 270° 15,
and north polar distance 54° 45'.
    The result of a calculation of the angles, and the least
quantities of real motion of our six stars, according to this
apex, is collected in the following table, and represented
in fig. 3.
                                   Table VI.
      Stars.
                Angles of the parallactic Angles of the apparent Least Quan
                Motion with the Parallel.     with the parallactic tities of the
                                              Motion.              realMotion.
  Sirius         68 51   5 S. preceding     0   1 25 S. preceding   0,0004561
  Arcturus       29 30 32 S. preceding     25  59 10 S. following   0,9145072
  Capella     '  77 54 0 S. following       6  18 38 S. following   0,0509727
  Lyra           27  38 47 N.following     28  42  9 N. preceding   0,1557761
  Aldebaran      66  20 17 S. following    10   9 21 S. preceding   0,0217607
  Procyon        64 48 27 S. following     14  46  IS.  preceding   0,3159051
                                                               Sum 1",4593779
    By this table it appears that the annual proper motion of
our six stars may be reduced to 1,4594", which is 0,7655"
less than the sum in the 5th table, where the apex was
K Herculis.
     In the approximation to this point it appeared, that when
 the line of the parallactic motion of Sirius is made to coin
cide with its apparent motion, we may soon obtain a certain
minimum of the other parallactic motions; but as Sirius is
not the star which has the greatest proper motion, it oc
curred to me that another minimum, obtained from the line
in which Arcturus appears to move, would be more accu
rate ; for, on account of its great proper motion, we have
reason to suppose it more affected than other stars by the
parallax arising from the motion of the sun ; and, with a
view to this, I soon was led to a point not only in the line
of the apparent motion of Arcturus, but equally favourable
 to Sirius and Procyon, the remaining two stars that have
 the greatest motions.
     It the principle of determining the direction of the solar
motion by the stars which have the greatest proper motion
be admitted, the following apex must be extremely near the
truth ; for, an alteration of a few minutes in right ascension
or polar distance either way, will immediately increase the
 required real motion of our stars. Its place is : right ascen
sion 245° 52' 30", and north polar distance 40° 22'.
                                      Q   3                                  The

246         On the Motion      of the Sun and Solar System.
   The    calculated   motions of the same stars by this apex will
be as in the    following     table, and are delineated in fig. 4.
                                  Table  VII.
               Angles of the parallactic Angles of the apparent Least Ouan-
     Stars.
               Motion with the Parallel.   with the parallactic titiesofthe
                                           Motion.              realMotion.
                 0   t "                    Oi«-
 Sirius         58  24 56  S. preceding    10 24 44 following     0,20157
 Arcturus       55  29 45  S. preceding    0 O 3 preceding        0,00003
 Capella -      83  44 17  S. preceding   24 40 21 following      0,19358
 Lyra           36  28 33  S. following   92 49 30 following      0,32396
 Aidebaran      89 48  35  S. preceding   13 18 58 following      O.02S42
                59 43  10  S.            - 9 40 46
  Procyon                     preceding              preceding    0,20839
                                                          Sum     0",95595
    The sum of the real motions required, with the apex of
the solar motion above mentioned, is less in this table than
that in the former by 0,50343".
    In these calculations we have proceeded upon the prin
ciple of obtaining the least possible quantity or real motion,
by way of coming at the most favourable situation of a solar
apex ; and have proved that the sum of the observed proper
motions of the six principal stars, amounting to 5,3534",
may be the result of a composition of two other motions ;
and that the real motions of these stars, if they could be
reduced to their smallest possible quantities, would not ex
ceed 0,9550".
    But as I do not intend to assert that these real motions
can be actually brought down to the low quantities that
have been mentioned, it will be necessary to show that the
validity of the arguments for establishing the method I have
pursued will not be affected by that circumstance.                    In the
first place, then, we should consider, that although the great
proper motions of Arcturus, Procyon, and Sirius, are strong
indications of their "being affected by parallax, it does not
follow, nor is it probable, that the apparent changes of the
situation of these stars should be entirely owing to solar
motion ; on the contrary, we may reasonably expect that
their own real motions will have a great share in them.
Next to this, it is evident that in the case of parallactic
motions the distance of a star from the sun is of material
consequence ; and as this cannot be assumed at pleasure,
we are consequently not at liberty to make the parallactic
motion sp in fig. 1, equal to the line sm of the same figure :
hence it follows, that the real motion of the star cannot be
                                                                        from

                Life of John Bevis, M.D. F.R.S. &c.                           247
 from m to a, as the foregoing calculations have supposed ;
but will be from p to a.      It              is,
                                     however, very evident, that
if  ma be minimum, the line pa, when sp
              a                                       given, will   is
also be  aminimum       and     ; all the ma's
                                         if      fig. 4. are mi
                                                             in
nima,     follows also that all the sp's, whatever they may
         it
be, will give the pa'a as small as possible      and this     the
                                                               :         is
point that was to           be
                       established.
    Whatever, therefore, may be the sum of real motions re
quired to account for the phaenomena of proper motions,
our foregoing arguments cannot be affected            the result    by         ;
for, as    by
           observation           known that proper motions do
                                    it   is
exist, and since no solar motion can resolve them entirely
into parallactic ones, we ought to give the preference to
that direction of the motion of the sun which will take away
more real motion than any other, and this, as we have
shown, will be done when the right ascension of the apex
is  245° b& 30", and its north polar distance 40° 22'.
XLVI. Life o/John Bevis, M. D. F. R.                           S. &c. Com
     municated    Mr. T. S. Evans,
                      by                            of   the   Royal Military
     Academy,  Woolwich.
J  ohn Bevis, M. D., fellow of the Royal Society of Lon
don, and corresponding member of the Academy of Sciences
of Paris and Berlin, was born the last dav of October T6Q5,
 (old style,) near old Sarum, in Wiltshire.           His father
distinguished himself very honourably, in the time of the
Revolution,       raising and supporting, at his own expense,
                     by
a  company of infantry to assist king William, and ex
pended in      the sum of 20001., no part of which was ever
                it
reimbursed him             by
                       government.
   The son, after receiving that kind of education which was
necessary to qualify him for the university, was entered at
Christ's college, Oxford, where he applied with great ar
dour, not only to the study of physic, for which he was in
tended, but also to many other sciences        he had, in parti
                                                         :
cular, a  strong partiality for optics, and was rarely without
sir Isaac Newton's treatise on that subject in his pocket.
This will not surprise us much, when we consider how ne
cessary  a knowledge of this science         to the one for the
                                                    is
advancement of which he had so remarkable           predilection.  a
Not contented with acquiring the theory of astronomy, he
made himself also         proficient in the practical part, even
                                a
while he was at college; and frequently amused himself
                                         g4                              with

        "
248          Life of John Bevis, M.D. F.R.S. &c.
with polishing glass for optical purposes, in which he was
quite an adept.
   Having taken his degrees, as far as doctor of physic, he
left the university, and made the tour of France and Italy,
and on his return commenced the profession of medicine
in London, where he had great practice. But the study of
physic afforded him no pleasure to compare with that which
he received from contemplating the divine works of the
Omnipotent in the heavens.
   As early as the year 1738 he had procured an excellent
collection of astronomical instruments*, for the purpose
of furnishing a new observatory, which he had built under
his own particular direction, at Stoke Newington, on the
north side of London.      In this place, when he had esta
blished himself, he became a most indefatigable observer,
which is proved by three volumes in folio, Ifilled with ob
servations, which he made between the 6th of March in
that year and the 6th of March in the following year. From
these he selected the most important, making one volume
of 196 pages, on large paper, where it frequently occurs
that the transits of one hundred and sixty stars, 8cc. have
been observed in one night.
   Pr. Bevis continued to observe the heavens with the same
assiduity till the year 1745, when, finding he had collected
sufficient materials, he imposed on himself the laborious
task of arranging, and publishing by subscription, a work
entitled " Uranographia Britannica ; or An exact View of
the Heavens, on fifty-two Plates ;" similar to that of Boyer,
representing the constellations and all the fixed stars that
had been observed by astronomers, together with a consi
derable number that had only been observed by himself.
In this work, which he announced in 1748, are two hernia
spheres, which represent the constellations as they were laid
down by the antient astronomers f. To each plate he wrote
a particular explanation, with remarks ; and joined a com
plete catalogue of all the fixed stars, with their magnitudes
and positions for that time.
   These plates, which would have done honour to his coun
try as wetl as to himse! f, notwithstanding they have been
engraved for so many years, have never come before the
public,on the following account : — He had engaged a person
  •
     Among others he had in his possession a curious wire micrometer ca
pable of an inclinatory motion, which once belonged to the celebrated astro*
porner Hevelius.
  -J-Similar, perhaps, to plates 33 and 34 of Bode-s small atlas.

            Life of John Bevis, M.D. F.R.S. »c.                         249
to engrave them whose name was John Neale *, and who,
after he had received several hundred pounds of the sub
scription, became a bankrupt : by this means the work fell
into the hands of Ncale's creditors, and was at length put
under the protection of the court of chancery, so that the
author could never afterwards enjoy the fruit of great la
bour t» What was still worse, the subscribers to this ex
cellent work, having been thus disappointed, supposed that
Dr. Bevis had some connection, with Neale in his miscon
duct ; which being told him, he felt himself so much cha
 grined by   it,that he never spoke of this unpleasant busi
 ness during the remainder of his life, without feeling him
 self in some degree affected.    Mr. Horsefall, whom he left
 his executor, and who was very fond of astronomy, used
 every means in his power to forward the suit after the doc
 tor's decease he even offered to give up h\f own interest in
               :
 the affair, to bring     to
                         it   final conclusion, that the work
                                  a
 might be published but to no purpose.
                        ;                       Very great pains
 had been taken with         and, besides the previous labour,
                            it;
 many whole days were spent          the side of the engraver, to
                                       by
 s«e that every star was laid down in its proper position.
 At the commencement of the suit there was very little to
 finish for the press, all the plates being ready.
    Dr. Bevis was the author of great many works, which
                                         a
 have been well received by the public         but his modesty
                                                    ;
 would not permit him to take the merit of them to himself                J.
 It to him we are indebted for the publication of the cele
   is
 brated Dr. Halley's astronomical tables, with whom he
 was intimately acquainted. They were left from the year
  1725 till his death in the hands of the printer, where, per
 haps, they might have shared the same fate as the atlas be
 fore mentioned, had not Dr. Bevis taken them up, and                      by
 supplying the necessary auxiliary tables, and precepts to'
 use them, brought them to light in the year 1749§.
    In Mr. Thomas Simpson's Essays, p. 10, are given prac-
   * This John Neale               pamphlet containing some improvements
                       published  a
in the barometer.
  4/ Lalande says that the doctor showed him the proofs when he was in
England in the year 1763, at which time they were still in custody, but that
M. Messier had set of them. [Astr. vol. p. 242, 3d edit.)
                   a                    i.
 i   Heath says, p. 234 of his Royal Astronomer, that Gael Morris was the
precept writer to Dr. Halley's tables.    Possibly G. Morris might assist Dr.
Bevis, or actually write them under his inspection but there
                                                     ;             is no doubt
that Dr. Bevis was the responsible person concerned.
  §   Dr. Halley expected to bring the theory of the moon to greater state
                                                               a
of perfection, and the publication of the tables was delayed for that purpose.
 M. de l'lsle, with whom Dr. Halley as well as Dr. Bevis corresponded, has
 published two curious letters ou the history and theory of these tables.
                                                                         tical

25O         Life of John Beuis, M.D. F.R.S. &c.
 tical rules for finding the aberration, which were drawn up
 and given him    liy  Dr. Bevis, together with examples of the
 corrections applied to several stars, which he had himself
 carefully observed with proper instruments; whereby, as Mr.
 Simpson observes, he has proved, the first of any one, that
 the phenomena are universally as conformable in right
 ascension as Dr. Bradley, who made this great discovery,
 found them to be in declination.
    At meeting of the Board of Longitude on the 18th Sep
      a
 tember 1764, he was nominated, jointly with Mr. George
Witchell and captain Campbell, to compute the observa
 tions made at Greenwich,, and compare them with those
 mad"e at Portsmouth and elsewhere, for the purpose of as
 certaining the accuracy of Mr. Harrison-s timekeepers.
    To prove the estimation in which he was held by ma
thematical men, we need only observe, that the ingenious
Mr. Crakelt has dedicated to him his translation of
M. Mauduit-s highly valuable Astronomic Spherique-,
and the booksellers, on account of his well known literary
erudition, requested he would write    a   letter of recommenda
tion to a   very useful little dictionary, which has always, on
that account, gone      by the name of Dr. Bevis-s dictionary.
    He has enriched the Philosophical Transactions, from
vol. xl. to vol. lix. inclusive, with twenty-seven valuable
papers, mostly containing astronomical observations         ;   and
he has inserted several things in the Mathematical Maga
zine,  by   Messrs. Moss and Witchell, particularly     a   curious
paper   on  the satellite of Venus.
    He announced, in the Journal dea Sfavans for August
1  111, an English translation of Lalande-s Astronomy, done
principally  by   himself; but it   has never been published,   al
though    left ready  for the press at his death.
    The only things which have appeared separately with his
name were two pamphlets       ;     one entitled " The Satellite
Sliding Rule," for determining the immersions and emer
sions of the four satellites of Jupiter; the other was "An
experimental Inquiry concerning the Contents, Qualities,
and medicinal Virtues of the two mineral Waters lately
discovered at Bagnigge Wells, near London        ;     with Direc
tions for drinking them, and some Account of their Suc
cess in obstinate Cases :" 8vo. London, 1760.            A second
edition, with additions, was given      by  him in 1767-
    About this time the ingenious Mr. John Dollond, of
St. Paul-s Churchyard, invented the method of correcting
the aberration and colour of rays of light passing through
a  single object glass, and thereby of shortening the length
                                                                of

               Life of John Bevis, M.D.F.R.S. &c.                      25  1
of telescopes, by using a compound object glass, composed
of a convex lens of crown glass and another concave one of
white flint glass ; or else, by means of two convex ones of
crown glass, and one concave one between them of white
flint   glass.    Dr. Bevis was the first who gave the name of
achromatic to telescopes made in this manner, which name
has ever since been universally adopted both at home and
abroad.      This invention induced him to make some curious
experiments on the refractive power of glass, in the com
position of which he had 'used a quantity of borax, and
found the refrangibility was about as great as that of Eng
lish crystal.
     The French astronomers had always received the credit
of being the first inventors of the wire micrometer, until
Dr. Bevis, in looking over some letters, the originals of
which were in lord Macclesfield's library, found, by acci
dent, that Gascoigne first invented it in the year 1641,
whereas Auzout's letter to Mr. Oldenburg, which only
mentions his having used it to measure the sun's diameter,
was not dated till the 28th of December 1666.
      M. Grischou, when he was at Leyden in 1 749, engaged
M. Schultens, professor of Arabic in that city, to translate
the manuscript, in the public library of that city, containing
 the observations of Ibn Iunis, made at Jaffa, about six or
 seven miles from Cairo, in Egvpt, in the years 977, 978,
 and 979, where are recorded, among other things, two re
 markable eclipses of the sun. Dr. Bevis procured a copy
 of this manuscript in order to compare modern observations
 with these antient ones, for the purpose of settling the
 maximum of some equations in the solar tables ; but in the
 course of his researches he found them so obscure and un
 satisfactory that he was obliged to reject them.               He after
 wards presented this manuscript to M. de l'lsle, and it has
 lately been translated into French by M. Caussin, and in
 serted in the Mem. de I'Inslit. Nat. tom, ii.*
      At the death of Mr. Bliss, in 1765, his friends made
 great exertions to procure for him the situation of astro
 nomer royal ; but Dr. Maskelyne obtained it through the
 interest of the earl of Macclesfield, who was at that time
 president      of the Royal Society.           His majesty, notwith
 standing      he  could    not   comply    with  his wishes in this in
 stance, was very partial to him, and requested his assist-
     * An analysis of this curious and valuable
                                                mnnuscript may be seen in the
 first volume of Dr. Garnett's Annjis of Philosophy, p. 103. La Place ha*
 derived great benefit from the use of it.
                                                                       ance

 252           Life of John Bevis, M.D. F.R.S. 6?c.
 ance and advice in directing the building of the observatory
 at Richmond in 1770.
     He corresponded with most of the principal astronomers
 in all parts of the continent; and many of them make very
 honourable mention in their works of the civilities and at
tention they received from him, either during their stay in
England, or by communications to them abroad.
     His diploma of member of the Royal Academy of Sciences
of Berlin is dated the 1 Ith of June 1750, and was accom-
           by a very polite and flattering letter from the cele-
Eanied
   rated   M. de Maupertuis, president of that academy, in
which,     speaking to him of the work above mentioned, he
called it    "   your inimitable atlas."
    The     12th of July 1768 he was chosen corresponding
member of the Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris.
    A few years before his death he left the house in which
his observatorv was at Stoke Newington, and removed into
the .Temple; but the improper situation of his house for
astronomical purposes, the approaches of old age, his oc
cupations as a physician, and at the Royal Society, now
               him from continuing his observations so regu-
Crevented
  irly as before.        Nevertheless he had his astronomical
clocks, quadrants, and telescopes, about him, to amuse
himself occasionally, or to gratify a friend with the sight
of any particular observation when it occurred in the hea
vens.
    His death was occasioned by a fall which he received a
short time before, in going rather too hastily from his in
strument to the clock, in observing the meridian altitude of
the sun. He died the 6th of November 1771, aged 76, in
the Middle Temple, perfectly free and resigned, and with
that constancy and serenity of mind becoming a Christian
and a philosopher.
    Dr. Bevis-s disposition was lively, amiable, and liberal :
he could never see any one in embarrassment, of whatever
country or religion he was, without eympathizing in his
distress, and affording him relief if possible.
    He rendered very essential service to astronomy by the
great encouragement and assistance he gave to astronomers,
as well of his own country as foreigners.         He was always
ready    to  see  them,  and  never refused his advice when they
either wanted to purchase instruments or make observations;
and, in general, never spared any pains or trouble that con
tributed to forward the progress of astronomy.
                                                     XLVIt.  On

                              [    253   ]
XLVII.        On the magnetic Attraction          of Oxides of Iron.
               By TIMOTHY LANE, Enq.              F.R.S.*
.HAVING found, by experiment, that        hardened iron is not
so readily attracted by the magnet as soft iron, and that
needles are inferior to iron wire as indexes to Six-s thermo
meter, I was proceeding to other comparative experiments
when     I
        received the Second Part of last year-s Philosophical
Transactions, in which I saw an Analysis of Magnetical
Pyrites,      with Remarks on Sulphurets of Iron, by         Mr. Hat-
chett.
      This paper led me to examine what magnetical properties
  iron possessed when free from inflammable matter. For
  this purpose I obtained a precipitate of iron prepared and
  sold at Apothecaries- Hall by the name of for rum prcrcipi-
  talum.     Mr. Moore, the chemical operator, informed me
  that he prepared it by dissolving twelve pounds of sulphate
  of iron in twenty-four gallons of distilled water, and then
  adding eight ounces of sulphuric acid to render the solution
  more complete. Twelve pounds of purified kali were mixed
  with the solution : the precipitate was well washed with hot
  distilled water, and then carefully dried. This precipitate
  is similar to fhe sediment of chalybeate waters, and affords
   no magnetic particles ; nor, when exposed to a continued
   clear red heat, does it suffer any alteration beyond the ac-
. quirement of a darker colour.         But if any smoke or flame
   has access to   it,then maenetic particles are evident. Heat,
  by   the converging rays oT the sun        equal to that at which
                                             f»
   glass  melts,   blackens  the  oxide,   but  does not render          it
   magnetic, -if free from any inflammable matter.             It reis
   quisite, in this experiment, to protect the oxide,          by
                                                               glass,
   from the dust floating in the air, which otherwise will render
   many of the particles magnetic.       I  attributed this effect to
   the deoxidizing property of light, till,       by
                                                  employing      pro
                                                                 a
   tecting glass, the result proved       to proceed from the dust
                                         it
   in the atmosphere.
       By repeated experiments found that heat alone produced
                                  I
   no magnetic effect on the oxide, and that inflammable mat
   ter with heat always rendered some of the particles magnetic.
       As the inflammable matter in coal had this effect, mixed
                                                              I
   some of the oxide with      a portion of coal in    glass mortar,
                                                       a
   and continued rubbing them together for some time without
      From the Transactions of the Royal Society for 1805.
   •
   -f   Thelens employed in this experiment was twelve inches in diameter!
  and the heat at its focus was sufficient to melt iron
                                                  i     from Mr. Dollond.
                                                                         any

 254          Magnetic Attraction    of Oxides of Iron.
any mannetic effect.      The mixture was then put into a to
bacco-pipe, and placed in the clear red beat of a common
fire : as soon as the pipe had acquired a red heat, it was
taken out. The mixture was put on a glazed tile to cool,
and proved highly magnetic.
    I rubbed a portion of the original oxide in a glass mortar
with a variety of substances, as sulphur, charcoal, camphor,
aether, alcohol, Sec., and found that no effect was produced
without the assistance of heat.        The heat of boiling water,
moreover, was not sufficient; but by the heat of melting
lead I procured magnetism.           Small quantities of any in
flammable matter in a red heat have an evident effect on
the oxide. Hydrogen, aided by a red heat, renders the
oxide magnetic.       Alcohol has the same effect.      But if the
alcohol be diluted with water, though it may flame in the
fire, it will be ineffectual, as it is driven off before the oxide
becomes sufficiently heated to receive its action.
   Such combustible substances as do not very readily part
with their carbonic element, require rather longer conti
nuance of heat than others ; for example, charcoal and cin
ders, well burnt, must be longer in the fire to have their
full effect on the oxide, than dry wood, coal, or sulphur.
   But such substances as may be sublimed with facility,
will gradually quit the oxide, by a continued application
even of a low heat, leaving it unmagnetic, as at first.
    How very small a portion of inflammable matter is re
quisite to render a considerable quantity of oxide magnetic
is evident, since one grain of camphor dissolved in an ade
quate portion of alcohol, and mixed with a hundred grains
of the oxide in a glass mortar, will, by a red heat, render
all the particles of the oxide magnetic.
    As oxides of iron, therefore, are rendered magnetic by
heat, when mixed with inflammable matter, it may be un
derstood why Prussian blue, sulphurets, and ores of iron
containing inflammable matter, become magnetic by the
agency of fire; while at the same time it is observable that
these same ores revert to their unmagnetic state, \vhen the
heat has been continued sufficiently long to drive off the
whole of the inflammable matter : -thus we find among the
cinders of a common fire calcined sulphurets of iron, di
stinguishable by their red colour, unmagnetic when all the
Eulphur is sublimed.
   My intention in this communication is to prove generally
that mere oxides of iron are not magnetic; that any inflam
mable substances mixed with them do not render them
magnetic until they are by heat chemically combined with
                                                               the

          New inflammable and detonating Substance.                255
the oxides, and that when the combustible substance is
again separated by heat, the oxides return to their unrnag-
netic state.    That magnetic oxides cannot be distinguished
from calcined oxides by their colour.              I entertain a hope,
however, that this subject may be found worthy of the ac
curate investigation of some other member of this learned
society.
XLyill.      Extract from      a Memoir of Messrs. FOURCROY
    and  VAuauELiN      upo?t   the Discovery of a new inflam
    mable and detonating Substance formed ly the Action of
    Nitric Acid on Indigo and Animal Matlc-rs. By A. LAU-
    G1ER*.
 -I HE application of the nitric acid to vegetable and animal
matters has produced, it is well known, a multitude of im
portant discoveries. The disengagement of a part of the
azot of animal compounds, and their conversion into oxalic
acid, as observed by M. Berthollet, together with the dis
 covery of the formation of ammonia and the prussic acid
by M. Fourcroy, form a brilliant aera in the history of che
mical science.        The changes which organic compounds
 suffer by the action of nitric acid, which produces nine or
 ten different substances, themselves compounds, are so mul
tiplied and various, that they excite the astonishment of
 chemists, and induce them to regard this action of the ni
 tric acid as a rich mine to labour in : that it is still far from
 exhausted will appear from the discovery of two substances,
 hitherto almost wholly unknown, tvhich form the subject
 of this memoir.
    The most remarkable of these is produced by boiling
 nitric acid upon animal substances or vegetables containing
 azote.    It is of a yellow colour, has an intensely bitter
 taste, and is distinguished by its property of inflaming and
 detonating with violence when exposed to a moderate heat.
     M. Haussmann, by a memoir which appeared in the
 Journal de Physique (March 1788), where he relates some
 experiments on indigo with the acids, seems to have seen
 this substance. Although he confounds it with the oxalic
 acid, yet its properties are pointed out by him with sufficient
 accuracy ; its bitterness, its yellow colour, its solubility,
 and its precipitation by alkalies : but its principal property
                  • From the An.na.ltt de Otimie, No. IGS.
                                                                     Of

   256     New inflammable and detonating Substance.
  of inflammation    and detonation, of course its intimate and
  peculiar nature,  has altogether escaped him.
     The substance termed hy Welther the bitter principle,
  in which he discovered a power of detonating, seems to be
  the same matter: but he has attributed this peculiarity to
  the presence of a portion of nitrate of potash.
     The most convenient mode of procuring the substance
 in question, is to boil four parts of nitric acid, of 18 or 2O
 degrees strength, upon one part of powdered           indigo of
 Guatinala, until its colour is destroyed, while the acid be
 comes yellow. and till there remains on the surface only a
 thin layer of resinous matter, which becomes firm by cool
 ing.    This is to be removed, the solution evaporated to the
 consistence of honey, and the residuum dissolved in hot
 water, and filtered. A solution of the potash of commerce
 is now to be poured into the liquor, when a number of small
 yellow crystals of a circular shape will appear, forming the
 inflammable substance.
     The resin which has been separated may, by the addition
 of a new portion of acid, be also converted into the same
 yellow detonating substance.
     If the process be stopped before the point mentioned,
 we obtain, instead of the detonating substance, a matter of
 a yellow colour and crystallized, but more soluble in water,
 and subliming in the form of white needles.
     This substance exhibits all the characters of benzoic acid,
 altered by a portion of the resin.      In all probability the
continuance of the process" decomposes or volatilizes this
acid.
    The orange colour of the detonating matter ; its bitter
taste; its solubility in boiling water, in alcohol, and, above
all, in nitric acid ; the very deep blood-red colour which it
acquires on the application of alkalis, and which it com
municates to the precipitate from the sulphate of iron; the
tenacity with which it adheres to the benzoic acid which is
formed along with it by ,the action of the nitric acid upon
indigo; and lastly, its property of detonating strongly with
a clear purple light when wrapped up in a bit of paper and
struck with a hammer, are characters which sufficiently
distinguish this substance from every other with which we
are acquainted.
    The celebrated authors of this memoir have ascertained
that the detonating property of the new substance depends
neither on the presence of nitric acid nor on that of ammo
nia; for concentrated sulphuric acid disengaged from it no
                                                             acid

                  On the Production    of Muriates:
 acid vapours, and caustic potash no ammonia.           They are,
 on the contrary, inclined to believe that potash has some
 share in the eject of detonation ; since acids in which this
 substance has been digested contain traces of salts having
potash as their base.      When deprived of alkali this sub
stance is more soluble in water, and crystallizes in elongated
plates of a yellow colour and bitter taste, having acid cha
racters : these crystals, if moistened with potash, resume
theiv detonating property.        The potash seems merely to
render this substance more fixed ; to favour the accumula
tion of caloric, and to determine, consequently, the combus
 tion of the elements which compose it ; viz. of the carbon,
 the hydrogen, and perhaps of the azote, by means of the
 oxygen which it also contains.
    Indigo is not the only substance which furnishes this
 detonating composition ; the muscular fibre treated with
nitric acid presents the same phenomena : and it is proba-
ble that silk, wool, and other animal and vegetable matters
 containing azote will also furnish it.
    The labours of Messrs. Fourcroy and Vauquelin present
 two very interesting facts.     It follows, ] . That the benzoic
acid may be formed from a multitude of different substfcncc/s,
which we were formerly ignorant of : 2. That animal and
vegetable substances containing azote, if treated with the
nitric acid, which takes from them a portion of carbon, of
hydrogen, and of azote, give birth to a matter supersatu
rated with oxygen, and possessing' the property of detona
tion.    This substance, which the authors of the memoir
have examined with care, appears to them to be a super-'
oxygenated hydro-carburet of azote.
XLIX.      Third Communication from- Mr. W. Peel»               of
    Cambridge.       On the Production of Muriates by         </fft
    Galvanic and Electric Dctimposition of Water.                 *
                          To  Mr.  Tilloch.
      SIB,
I feel    no little satisfaction at the interest my experiments'
have excited, and     the favourable reception they have met
with from you.
    I have now the pleasure to inform you, that since my
last letter, dated the 4th of June, (rail. Mag. vol. xxii.
p. 153.) having had some leisure time upon my hands, I'
have dedicated as much of it as mv health would permit  '
                                                               to'
    Vol. S3. No. 91. Dec. 1805.          R                    the

858              On the Production    of Muriates.
the further   investigation of the subject on which T then
wrote you.
    In my first letter, (vol. xxi. p. 279.) dated the 23d of
April last, I informed you, briefly, that by decomposing, by
means of Galvanism, about one-half of a whole pint which
I employed of distilled water, I had obtained in the remain
ing water a quantity of muriate of soda. In my letter
of the 4th of June I informed you, that on repeating the
same experiment with water formed by the combustion or)
hydrogen with oxygen gas, saturated ti-ilh lime to free it
from some free nitric acid with which it was found tinc
tured, and then distilled, I had, instead of muriate of soda,
as in the former experiment, obtained muriate of potash.
    The experiments which I am now to state, were under
taken,
    1st, To dttcrmine whether the difference in the result
of the before- mentioned experiments was owing in any
degree to my having employed lime to neutralize the water
employed in my second experiment, before it was distilled.
    2d, To ascertain whether the sails found in the residual
water, or any component part of them, came from the Gal
vanic battery by means of the wires.
    To determine the first point, I varied my experiment by
omploying for decomposition water distilled under different
circumstances.
    Exp. I. The water employed in this experiment was di-
Btilled from water containing lime.          A portion of it was
decomposed      in  the  manner    that  has  before been stated.
The remaining water yielded muriate vf potash.
     Erp. II. Water distilled from water containing magnesia
was decomposed in the same manner.            The result was mu
riate af soda.
     Krp. ITI. In this experiment, double distilled SIHJW witter
 was employed.       The result was muriate of soda.
     Erp. IV. Water distilled fioin larytes was now used.
                                 -
The result was still muriate of soda.
    The water which I used in the experiment detailed in my
 first letter was distilled from pump water (the pump is on
 the premises where I live), which I have not myself ana-
 h-scd, but a friend has been so good as to take upon him
 that trouble.     He has not been able to detect in it the
 minutest portion of magnesia.         In one of the above expe
 riment.-!, having used water distilled, from magnesia, I ob-
 t*ined muriate of soda; but, having obtained the same re
 sult from distilled snow water, and from water distilled from
                                                          barytes.

                On Gum     Aralic and Gum Adru"anlh.    o               259
barytes,     I  conclude that the production of the soda has no
thing   to   do  with the presence of magnesia.
    But in the production of potash the presence of iime
seems to be essential, and, as you hinted, a portion of lime
must have been carried over with the distillea water ; a fact
which few would suspect, and wliich probably may often
be the cause of differences in the results of chemical inves
tigations, conducted, to all appearance, in a similar manner.
    To determine the second point which I had in view ;
namely, whether the salts found in the residual water, or
any component part of them, came from the Galvanic bat
tery by means of the conducting wires, I made similar ex
periments to those before stated, employing for the decom
position of the distilled water a powerful electrical machine
instead of a Galvanic batten-, but without obtaining results
different from what have been already stated.
    I am now engaged in an experiment concerning the
formation of potash ; but, being desirous that my present
letter, which I write in haste, may reach you in time for
this month-s Magazine, cannot \vait for its result.                 Should
the experiment succeed, you shall be informed as soon as
possible.       In the mean time I remain, with the greatest
regard, yours,
    Cambridge,
                                                                W-
   Dec. -JO, 1805.
    L. Experiment*        on Gum     Aralic and Gum Adraganth.
                         By  M. VAUQUELIN*.
 1. A EN grains of red gum adragantb, furnished by com
bustion three decigrammes and a half of white ashes. Thess
ashes dissolved in muriatic acid with effervescence,                    and
gave   out    an  odour  of sulphurated      hydrogen.       Their solution
gives by ammonia a precipitate which consists of phos
phate of lime and oxide of iron.              The oxalate of ammonia
 precipitates^ considerable quantity of lime.
    Thus the red gum adraganth contains in a hundred
 parts about three and a half of ashes, which are composed,
 for the greater part, of carbonate of lime, of a small quantity
 of iron, of phosphate of lime, and perhaps also a minute
 portion of alkali.
    2. Ten grains of white gum adraganth, submitted to the
 same proofs, yielded three decigrammes of allies, whjcji
                    • From the /tmviles  it Chim-e, tons. liv.
                                   R   2                               were

860             On Gum Arabic and Gum Adragantfi.
were composed of the same principles as those of the red
gum.         Further, in washing there was extracted a small
quantity of alkali, viz. potash.
      3. Ten grains of gum arable, burnt like the others, left
three decigrammes of ashes, which were composed of the
same elements with the preceding; with this difference,
however, that they gave no symptoms of the presence of
an alkali, nor of sulphur, as the others.
      I had formerly suspected that the opacity of gum adra-
ganth, and the difficulty which it has to dissolve in water,
were owing to the existence of a very great quantity of
earthy matter; but after these experiments it appeared they
were owing to another cause.
      To a certainty the lime is not found in the state of a car?
bonate, and still less in the state of quicklime ; for the so
 lutions of gum arc not alkaline, they are, on the contrary,
 slightly acid. At least, il one r\ib on a morsel of gum a
           of test paper well moistened, it is sensibly reddened.
    t is certain, also, that oxalate of ammonia and carbonate
 fiece
 of potash occasion precipitations in the solution of gum
 arabic, and that the acetate of lead is not there formed at
 all.      It fol!ows from thence that there is lime in the gums,
 combined with an acid : — But what is this acid ?
       Here, for want of facts, I shall be obliged to give way
 to conjecture ; but conjecture very probabte, which every
 thing seems to support, and nothing to contradict.         It is not
 doubtful, at least, that it is a vegetable acid ; for, on being
 decomposed, they leave their bases combined with carbonic
 acid.                                                      ^
      Supposing this, let us see among the great number of
 acids that which could best satisfy all those conditions.
 It is neither the oxalic, nor the tartareous acid, nor the
 citric, because their combinations with lime are insoluble
 in water, and likewise because they exist in only a small
 number ot vegetables.        Still less can it be the benzoic, the
 gallic, the mosoxalic or the honistic acid ; which, as we
 know, are v.-ry rare in nature, and of which the three first
 form also s.i-ts which are very little soluble.
       ]t remains, therefore, only to choose between the acetous
 and the malic acid.       The first forms, as we know, soluble
 combinations with all known substances with which it is
 Capable of uniting ; some of them arc even deliquescent.
  It. is, besides, a result most frequent in the operations of
 nature in the vegetable and animal system ; since it forms
 itself by vegetation, fermentation, the action of powerful
 acids, and the influence of heat.
                                                                 The

         On the  Kre and Clioak- Damps of Coal Mines.        201
    The combinations of the second are the greater part in
 soluble in water;- that which it forms particularly with
 lime is not sensibly soluble but by the aid of an excess of
 acid, and its existence in nature is not so frequent as that
of the acetic acid ; and since the lime which is found in
 transparent gums has been incontestibly dissolved in the
juices of the vegetables which furnished these substances,
it is much more probable that tliis earth is there combined
 with the acetic acid than with any other.
    It is very probable that the small quantity of potash which
 I found in the ashes of the burnt gums is united to the same
acid, which would explain why these substances are so sen
sible to humidity, and soften themselves so as not to be
 pulverizable.
    I am, however, very much disposed to believe, that in
 certain opake adragamh gums difficult to dissolve, and
 which give much lime by incineration, this earth is there
 combined with the malic acid.          I have had occasion to
 examine lately a gum collected by M. Pallissot-Bauvois on
 the nopal of cochineal, which was opake, swelled itself in
 water, but did not dissolve in a homogeneous manner, and
 which gave eight per cent of lime.
    As the sap of all the cactus which I have submitted to
 analysis has afforded me quantities more or less considera
 ble of the acidulous malate of lime, one may presume, with
 Sufficient reason, that the kind which nourishes the cochi
 neal contains it also ; and that it is the presence of this salt,
 proceeding from the vegetable when dissolved in the sap
 with the gum, which gives it its opacity, and hinders its
 solution in water.
     It results at least from these experiments, that the gums
 contain, 1. A calcareous salt, most frequently the acetate
 of lime : 2. Sometimes a malate of lime with excess of
 acid: 3. Phosphate of lime: 4. Iron, which is probably
  united to phosphoric acid.
 LI. A proposal for      destroying the Fire- <ind Choak-Damps
    of   Goal  Mines;    and their Production explained on the
     Principles of  modern  Chemistry : addressed to the Owner*
    and Agents of Coal IVorkt, &?c.
  JL HE subjoined remarks are extracted from a little tract
 which professes only to hold out a short explanation of
 well known facts, in the hope of seeing them conducive to
 save human beings whose labours are useful to the coro-
                                R                    -
                                  3                      munity.

S6-2 -                 Proposal J-ur destroying
mnnity.       It
             is written in a popular manner, and, we thinlc,
deserves the attention of those to whom it is addressed.
  The decomposition of water when carbonacevus matter,
or coal, comes in contact with        and the affinity which
                                                 it,
the oxygen of the water has for carbon, account satisfac
torily for the formation both of fire-damp (hydrogen gas)
and of choak-daml> (carbonic acid gas).           The hydrogenous
gas,    from   its specific gravity being   so much   less than that
 of atmospheric air, as 13 to         or 13 to
                                       1,                   if
                                                     perfectly pure,
                                                           1,
-ascends to the roof of the mine the carbonic acid gas, owing
                                           :
 to its specific gravity being more than twice that of common
 air, falls to the bottom.      When these two do not          their  by
 bulk fill the space between the floor and top of the mine,
a   stratum of atmospheric air lies between them, being nei
 ther so heavy as the choak-damp nor so light as the Jire-
 damp. Neither the hydrogen nor carbonic acid gas are
 respirable,  if  unmixed with atmospheric air and wherever     ;
 the fonncF takes fire      must be       contact or mixture with
                                                in
                         it it
 atmospheric air, as        cannot be inflamed without it: — tho
 result of the combustion           the formation of water which
                                      is
 consists of hydrogen 0- 15 and of oxygen 0-85; and thus
  pit-men who have been scorched with the explosion of fire
 damp appear as        if drenched with water. — Such, briefly,
  are the tact- brought to view             by
                                        the author, Dr. Trotter.
     Dr. Trotter, in prosecuting his object, points out,
  1st, The means: to prevent the formation of noxious air).
  in the mine1; ad, For removing them when formed.
                   :
     For the tin! . the mines should be as well ventilated as
  possible    bythe usual moans: but one great object ought to
  oe to prevent all stagnation of water        for where there
                                                       ;          no       is
  moisture there can be no generation of the foul airs. Where-
  ever water can stagnate,        stream of pure water should be
                                  a
   admitted at intervals to dilute and sweeten                  it,
                                                      that the whole
   may be pumped out and no chips of wood, or horse dung,
                            ;
   should be allowed to mix with the water that may become
 stagnate.
    To destroy fire-damp <c we have only to employ some
 of the stronger acids       state of vapour, such as the acetic,
                             in   a
 nitrous, or oxygenated muriatic.      These acid vapours seize
 the hydrogen.      In the expansible state of the acid gas its
 oxygen quits the radical or base of the acid and attracts the
 hydrogen     ;water    recom posed, but the caloric disengaged
                        is
 during the combination of the oxygen and hydrogen con
 verts it into steam, so that      not'seeninacondensed state.
                                      it   is
 This    is the whole secret of destroying hydrogenous gas,
 or fire-damp." The oxygenated muriatic acid gas, on ac
                                                           count

             the   Fire- and Ckoak- Damps of Coal Mines.
count of the extra oxygen which it contains, is the best for
this purpose.
   " The utensils required for this business are small flat
stone dishes, made thick, about two inches deep; and*
glass funnel for pouring ia the acid of vitriol.    The ingre
dients are, common salt      ought to be bay salt), oxide of
                                          (it
manganese,    and concentrated acid of vitriol, which, in
common language,       the strongest oil of vitriol.
                                 is
                       Proportion         for    one Fumigation.
        " Take of common   bay salt    -
                                                                          oz.      dr.     grt.
                                                                                           1O
                                                                          0 3
                                                                                   8 5 2
          Fine powder of black manganese                                                   17
          Water                  -         -             -       -            1            33
                                          acid           -       -                     "   50
       Strong sulphuric
  " After
                                                                              1
           pounding the  salt and manganese together, they
may be put into the stone ware dish, and the water poured
upon them    and afterwards the sulphuric, aeid, slowly,
                   ;
through      a
                   glass      This quantity
                            funnel.             sufficient for       is                           a
space   of    16 fuet       by
                           but the frequent employment must
                                 1   2
                                     ;
depend on the manner how the fire-damp            evolved."              is
   To remove the rhoak-damp from coal mines the author
recommends the use of water.
   " Water, about the temperature of 40° of Fahrenheit,                                           is
found to dissolve equal parts of its bulk       but as the water     ;
of deep pit
  a                commonly above 50°,
                       is                     will take up two-  it
thirds of its hulk only. In order to effect this mixture with
water,  I  would recommend (says the author). the common
fire-engine, such as      used in the case of fire.
                                     is               The work
men might for safety stand at        distance, and   a  directing                  by
the mouth of the tube to the spot where the choak damp                                            is
known to lie, the water may be so diffused as to take up the
whole.    The water will thai taste acidulous, and lights will
burn, and animals breathe, in the place whence the vapour
ttas dislodged. That the diffusion of the water might be
more speedy in dissolving the choak-damp, the tube might
be fitted after the manner of      garden watering-pot, so as
                                                 a
to sprinkle and break the fluid into      shower.
   " This kind of air being speedily attracted
                                                             a
                                                      quicklime,                  by
by mixing that article in the water which is to be diffused
would still more effectually dislodge the choak-damp and                                    ;
in places where     happens to be collected in great quantity,
                        it
such mixture would be highly -serviceable.
  "
      a
         ought to he remembered, whenever either fire-damp
        It
or choak-damp are detected in coal-pits, that there will be
reason to fear    collection of the other near the spot,
                       a                                      not                           if
                                           R     4                                     powerfully

•2ti4              On the Presence      of Fluoric Acid
-powerfully ventilated; for it is without doubt that they are
 mvariably generated by the same process and at the same
time."
    Such are the means proposed by Dr. Trotter for destroy- -
ing the ,fire- and choak-damps in coal mines. The ingre^-
dients, he observes, are so cheap, that " the largest mine
could not consume one hundred pounds (value, we suppose,
he me-ans,) in the year, by keeping the fumigation in con
stant use day and night." But the constant use of it would,
we think, be impracticable ; for too free an inhalation of
oxy-muriatic acid gas is apt to produce pleurisy, and many
people fell victims to this malady in different works when
this gas was first introduced for the purpose of bleaching.
The intention of the author is, however, not the less praise
worthy ; nor should this oversight militate against a fair
trial, ludiciously conducted, of the means he has suggested.
We believe few or none of the mines are worked in the
night-time. Before quitting the mine the fumigating pans
might be properly disposed, and the desired end probably
be gained before the people return to their work in the
LI I.    Letter of   M. GAY-LUSSAC             to M. BKRTHOLLET,     on
    the Presence     of Fluoric Acid      in   Animal Substances**
        My honoured friend,
W    HEM 1 quitted Paris, about four months ago, you were-
at that time unacquainted with the existence of fluoric acid
in animal substances ; and I have since received from you
no notice of that beautiful discovery.      I conceive, there
fore, that you will be gratified by the communication of
what I have learnt respecting it from M. Morichini, a Ro-<
nun chemist, by whom thisi discovery was made. As it
was anuounced by him so early as the year 1S02, vou wilf
iio doubt be astonished that it should have remained so long
unknown in France, and excited so liule the attention of
chemists.
   In April .1802 the skeletonof an elephant was found in
the neighbourhood of Rome, an account of which has been
published      count Morozzo in the Journal de Physique of
             fcy
Paris.  The deutes matures or this fossil elephant are formed
of two very distinct substances; the inner of these        os- is
               '   From the /Inhales <lr Chimif,   No. 1G5.
\                                                             seous,

                     in Animal Substancet.                      ^S.l
seous, translucent, of a pale yellow somewhat resembling
horn ; the outer, or enamel, is very white, breaks easily, and
has a rough fracture.      The osseous portion is most observa
ble on the upper surface of the tooth, where it forms trian
gular figures having rounded angles, and passes in plates
even to the root of the tooth, filling up the spaces l.eFt by
the enamel. On examining these two substances, count
Morozzo conceived that they must be different, and begged
M. Morichini to analyse them. This chemist soon dis
covered, by the application of the sulphuric acid, that the
enamel of the molares of the fossil elephant was almost en
tirely composed of the fluate of lime, together with a small
proportion of the phosphate and carbonate of the same sub
stance : the osseous substance, however, he found to be
principally formed of phosphate of lime.           Such arc the first
general  results   obtained  by  M.   Morichini    : they have been
published    in  the   Memoirs   of   the   Italian  Society in this
imperfect   state,  as  he had  not  then    leisure  to extend his
experiments     further.    Since   that  time,   however,   he has
ascertained, witli accuracy, the nature and proportions of
the several substances composing the fossil tooth : he has
also analysed the enamel of human teeth.           M. Josse, as you
well know, analvsed this last ; but there was still a great
deal to be done ; for his experiments offered no satisfactorv
account of the difference existinc between the enamel and
the bony part of the tooth.        As*M. Morichini has assured
me his late experiments will certainly appear in the Memoirs
of the Italian Society, I shall not enter into any detail of
them, but merely relate the principal results,
  M. Morichini,     havirig separated a portion of the enamel
of human teeth,     and suspecting that it resembled in its
composition that of the molares of the elephant, treated it
in the same manner, and discovered, to his great satisfac
tion, that it contained a large proportion of fluate of lime.
And to render his experiment more conclusive, he submitted
to the same tests the two enamels and the fluate of lime.
Under the action of the concentrated sulphuric acid, the
last of these three substances gave out readily copious va
pours of fluoric acid : the enamel of the fossil teeth emitted
them rather more slowly, and that of human teeth with still
less rapidity.   M. Morichini, however, remarks, that this
difference is wholly owing to the presence of an animal sub
stance in the two enamels, which is more abundant in that
of human teeth than in the enamel of the fossil ; and to
prove  it,he asserts that we may retard the disengagement
of the acid from fluate of lime     by
                                     adding to   after cajcina-
                                                  it,
              7                                                tion,

                On the Presence  of Fluoric Aci,t
tion, a small quantity of gelatine, and then drying it. The
vapours which tlusc three substances yield bv the sulphuric
acid, exhibit equally the property of corroding glass, and
depositing siliceous concretions in water, or on a moist
spoutre.    They present also other characters which it would
he useless here to mention, but which, taken in conjunc
tion with the above, will not permit us to doubt their
identity.
   According to the experiments of M. Morichiui, 100 parts
of the enamel of human teeth contain thirty of animal sub
stance, a little magnesia, aluminc, and carbonic acid : and
twenty-two of the fluoric and phosphoric acids, in combina
tion with lime. He has been unable to separate accurately
the fluoric from the phosphoric acid, but conceives that this
last exists only in very small quantity.
   The enamel of the teeth of the fossil elephant is likewise
composed of the same elements, but in different proportions;
thus it contains less phosphoric acid than that of the human
Iccth, and much less animal substance.            M. Morichini,
however, believes that this difference in the quantity of
phosphoric acid in the two enamels very probably arises
from a portion of the bony matter of human teeth, which
it is very difficult to separate completely from the enamel.
The most interesting result, and that which we least sus
pected, is the existence of fluoric acid in animal substances ;
a discovery of very great value, and one from which we
may justly expect the most important consequences.
   These conclusions respecting the presence of fiuate of
lime in the enamel of the teeth, are no doubt contrary to
our former ideas upon this subject ; for M. Josse, who has
analysed the enamel of human teeth *, and Mr. Hatchettf*
who examined that of a fossil elephant-s tooth, have both
discovered no other substance besides the phosphate of lime.
The opinion of these two chemists induced M. Morichini
to submit his own to rigorous examination: but his expe
riments have been so multiplied that there can now be en
tertained hardly any doubt upon this subject.
   Pellctier has proved that the phosphate of lime of Estra-
madura contains a portion of fluate of lime, and that the
earth of Mamarosch consists of a large proportion of this
last, with a small quantity of phosphate. M. Morichini,
reasoning from his own experiments, which prove that these
two sahs may be found united in animal substances, con
ceives it very possible that the phosphate of lime of Estra-
                     dc Chimic.     f  Phil. Tram. 1799.
                                                         madura,

                                                          •
                     in Animal Substances.                             26*
fnaduta, and the earth of Mamarosch, may have arisen
from the decomposition of the skeletons of large terrestrial
animals.
    Upon learning that the fluoric acid existed in the enamel
of teeth, I immediately recollected that Kouelle had for
merly announced that he was unable to procure phosphorus
from ivory ; and I suspected that it might be similar in its
composition to enamel. I therefore calcined a quantity of
ivory, and poured upon it concentrated sulphuric acid : va
pours were now disengaged, which I readily recognised to
be those of the fluoric acid.       The tusks of the boar afforded
 the same results. When I say that these two substances
 contain fluatc of lime, I would not be understood to assert
 that they are wholly composed of       it, because    had no means
                                                          I
 of making an accurate analysis; the vapours of the fluoric
 acid, however, are so abundant, that we s.hould be led to
 believe its combination with lime forms           very large part of
                                                   a
 their composition.
     A few days after these experiments examined, along
                                               I
 with M. Morichini,       a portion of fossil ivory which had been
 found    in the  neighbourhood of Rome.         Its concentric lay
 ers,  both  external   and   internal, yielded the fluoric acid in
 great   abundance.    1   attempted also to analyse the bones of
 fish but
    ;        I  have made only    a  single experiment on those of
 the tench and from this confess dare not say any thing
             ;                I           1
  decisive.
     You perceive then, my friend, that              highly probable
                                              it is it
                                                         is
  the enamel of the teeth of all animals          formed, in    great
                                                                   a
 measure, of the fluate of lime; and              may be remarked,
  that their canine teeth are either entirely composed of the
 enamel, or contain    a   much larger proportion of         than the
                                                              it
  others.    As we have hitherto found in the urine all the dif
  ferent substances composing the bones, have we not ground
  for believing that it   also contains the fluoric acid      If at
                                                              ?          a
  certain period of life the fluate of lime can be deposited upon,
  the teeth, it  appears nocessary that when these have acquired
  their full growth this substance should find some outlet from
  the body.
     What    is the origin of this fluatc of lime in animal sub
  stances?    Although the presence of fluate of lime in the
  phosphate of lime of Estramadura has occasioned                 sus
                                                                   a
  picion that one of the acids forming these salts may be a
  modification of the other, this opimon appears to me to
  have but little foundation  ;    for the co-existence of the two
  substances proves nothing as to their intimate nature            and
                                                                   :
  we may readily convince ourselves,          bysimply inspecting a
                                                                 fossil

                      Koyal Society , London,
  ibssil elephant-s tooth, that the osseous part is terminated
  by a distinct line, and even smooth on one side ; which
 could not possibly be the case were the enamel changeable
  into osseous matter, or this last into enamel. If the fluoric
  acid is not formed in the bodies of animals, which seems
  the meat probable opinion, but is only carried thither by
 means of the substances which furnish their nourishment,
 we ought then to find the acid in these substances.
     Thus, my friend, you see what extensive and important
 inquiries still remain to be made upon the single point of
 the existence of fluoric acid in animal substances.   M. Mo-
 richini, to whom this subject of right belongs, proposes
 to undertake the investigation : the field, however, is so
 wide, that it will furnish sufficient employment for the
 exertions of many chemists.
             LIU.   Proceedings of Learned  Societies.
                   ROYAL SOCIETY,     LONDON.
  JL HE regular meeting of this society, which should have
 taken place on the 28th of November, was postponed to
 the 1 2th of December, the former having been appointed
 for a day of general thanksgiving.
    On Saturday the 30th of November, being St. Andrew-s
day, the Royal Society held their anniversary meeting at
 their apartments in Somerset Place, when the gold medal
 (called sir Godfrey Copley-s) was presented to Humphrey
Davy, esq. for his various communications published in the
Philosophical Transactions.
    Afterwards the society proceeded to the choice of the
 council and officers for the ensuing year, when, on exa
mining the ballots, it appeared that the following gentle
men were elected of the council :
    Of the old council, —The right honourable sir Joseph
Banks, bart. K. B.; sir Charles Blagdon, knt. ; Henry Ca
vendish, esq. ; Davies Giddy, esq. ; Edward Whitaker Gray,
M.D.; right honourable Charles Greville ; William Mars-
den, esq.; Rev. Nevil Maskelyne, D. D.; George earl of
Morton; Samuel Horsley, lora bishop of St. Asaph ; Wil
liam Hyde Wollaston, M.D.
    Of the new council ,—Mr. John Abernethy ; George earl
of Eeremont; George Trenchard Goodenough, esq.; ho
nourable Robert Fulk Greville ; Philip Metcalf, esq.; Mat
thew Montague, esq.j lieutenant-colonel William Mudge;
                                                         John

                      Royal Society, ImiuIoh.                 269
John Townley, esq.; William Charles Wells, M.D.; Tho
mas Young,      M.D.
    And   the officers were, — The right honourable sir Joseph
Banks, K.B. president; William Marsden, esq. treasurer;
Edward Whitaker Gray, M.D., William Hyde Wollas-
ton, M.D., secretaries.
    Afterwards the. members of the society dined together,
as usual, at the Crown and Anchor Tavern, in the Strand.
    On Thursday the 12th of December, the right honoura
ble Charles Greville in the chair, minutes of the transac
tions of the council were read, with the above lists of offi
cers, and a state of the funds of the society.
     Letters were read from Drs. Maskelyne and Herschel
mentioning their having observed a comet on the evening
of the 8th instant, about six o'clock. It appeared like a
 star of the third or fourth magnitude, with a large coma,
but no tail.      It was not visible the succeeding evening.
     A paper was also read on the dissection of a peculiarly
formed heart, by Mr. Wyatt.           It belonged to the body of
 a young woman who diet! of a mortification         in her feet at
 the age of twenty.      For fortv davs before her death, a chlo-
 rotic paleness pervaded her whole frame ; her feet and legs
 were somewhat swelled, and painful ; and her appetite con
 tinued good till the day she expired. When her body was
 opened by Mr. Wyatt, he found the heart nearly divided
 by a callous substance that obstructed its functions in re
 ceiving and discharging the blood through the aortas.         To
 this cause, the obstructed or imperfect circulation,           he
 ascribed the mortification of the extremities. The paper was
 illustrated by a drawing of the singular appearance of the
 heart.*
     Thursday, December 19, the right honourable Charles
 Greville in the chair, commenced the rtading of a paper
 on guiacum, by Mr. Brande, communicated by Mr. Hat-
 chett, who has placed an accurate knowledge of this sub
ject among the chemical desiderata, where, we fear, it
 must yet remain.        Mr. Brande agrees with Mr. Hatchett
 that guiacum is a peculiar substance, which he chooses, for
 the present, to denominate an extracto-resin, differing, as
 he says, from the other resins in having an extraordinary
 quantity of what is usually denominated extractive matter.
 Its peculiarities seem to consist principally in its different
 solutions in the acids being of very different colours, all of
 which are ascribed by Mr. Brande to the presence of oxygen.
 Some, hotvever, may be inclined to believe that different
 combinations of matter must present different surfaces of
                                                           powers

                         Society    of Antiquaries.
powers of reflection ; and that, consequently, a great variety
of colours may be produced without having recourse to the
magical operations of oxygen on every occasion. We would
also observe, that some order should be adopted in detailing'
an account of numerous experiments on particular sub
stances,    such  balsams, gums, or resins.
                   as                          A multiplicity
of isolated facts, ina confused mass, without any regard to
the influence of some general law, can do little to facilitate
the progress of knowledge; the memory cannot retain them,
and we are reduced to the necessity of operating, as we have
known some of the French chemists, with our book resting
en the apparatus. It is true, these observations are no more
applicable to the present author than to almost every other
operator ; but thev must he evident to all who either read,
write, or make experiments : and, as it should be a rule
sever to operate by a system, so it should also be a maxim,
in reporting the results, always to arrange the facts accord
ing to some general analogy, drawn from just conceptions
of the products of our operations.       The experiments of
Mr. Brande, however, seem to have been well conceived,
and are detailed with sufficient perspicuity and accuracy ;
but thev are not, perhaps, so numerous as mav be necessary
to satisfy our curiosity respecting the peculiar principles
of this useful medicinal drug.
                    SOCIETY OF ASTiaUARIES.
   Nov. 28. An impression of a seal belonging to Mary
tyieen of Scots, now in the museum at .Paris, was exhi
bited.   It contained the arms of England, against which
Elizabeth remonstrated with so much ardour, denying
Mary's right to retain the English arms, and alkging,
from this circumstance,            her ultimate views on the throne
of England.        plea of Mary was, That her family con
                   The
nection gave her the right to use the arms of her forefathers,
in which she was supported by the king of France. Several
illustrative observations were made by the learned secretary
who exhibited      it,
                     from which       did not appear that Mary's'
                                       it
right  in   this case  was sufficiently established     by
                                                        the usage
of monarchs. This subject might again exercise the pen
of the trulv learned, highly ingenious, but too often fanci
ful, Mr. \Vhitaker.
   Thursday, Dec. 12, the Rev. Dr. Hamilton in the chair,
a polished stone was shown, supposed to be used          by
                                                    butchers
before the use of knives, or the knowledge of iron.     was   It
found      Suffolk, and consisted of shaded grayish green
           in
marble, well polished, very compact, except about an inch
                                                      square

                        Society  of Antiquaries,                  271
square near the broad end, that was very porous and rough :
it is about      8 inches long, nearly 3-J- inches broad at one
end, and !-$- at the other, both ot which are bevelled into
a tolerably sharp and circular edge.
     A  very interesting     commumcation from the director,
Mr. Lysons, was        read,  on the state of the English mint,
and coinage of England, during the reigns- of the first six
Edwards.         From these curious items it appeared that this
 country was principally indebted, in the eleventh and twelfth
 centuries, to the merchants of Lucca for the current coin of
 the realm. Lucca was formerly a republican state of Italy,
 whose merchants then possessed the principal traffic of
 Europe.
     J. B. Repton, esq. exhibited to the society some of his
 drawings of Saxon architecture, consisting of a capital aud
 base of a Saxon column.
     Dec. 19, the right honourable the earl of Leicester in the
 chair, a medal of Charles I., and a silver seal of the parish
 of Bow, Cheapside, were exhibited. This seal bears date
  15<)8, as mentioned by Stowe, and consists of the spire
 of the church as it appeared before the (ire of London: jt
 is deemed the only parish seal now in existence that was in
 use in London before \hat dreadful catastrophe.               In the
  spire there appear places for lanterns, or lights, to direct the
          citizens of London their way through the streets at
    lat period, when lamps, owing to the narrowness of the
  §ood
  streets, were much more necessary than at present.
     The secretary read a most amusing paper on the history,
  progress, and final conclusion of the cure of the scrofula,
  or king-s evil, by the royal touch.       This mode of Cure com
  menced -with Edward the Confessor, and, it appears, termi
  nated with Charles I., who is called the antitype of the
  Confessor.       The monarchs of France, too, claimed aud ac
  tually practised this gift, which Clovis received from our Eng
  lish kings, one of whom touched or cured (for they were sy-
  nonimous terms) 92,OOO persons.            Some additional means
  were, however, used ; ana a gold medal was alw.iys hung
  round the neck of the patient, which, if lost, the disease
  immediately returned : prayers too were made at the cere
  mony.
      The   learned secretary    quoted some     observations on the
  nature     and credibility    of testimony in this    ease by the
  bishop    of Salisbury, applicable 'to all historical evidence,
  and highly worthy of attention.          It appears that nnny me
   dical men attested the truth of these royal cures. We trust
   that the reverend author will pie-cnl this interesting ac-
                                                             -
                     7                                           fount

  2"2           Royal Academy. — British Institution.
 count to the public in a more convenient form than in the
 Archaiologia, that it may serve for an introduction to the
 history of our modern impostures.
                         ROYAL ACADEMY.
     A general assembly of the academicians was held on
 Tuesday, the 10th of December, being the anniversary of
 the institution, when the following were elected officers
 for the ensuing .year :
    James Wvatt, esq. president ; Henry Thomson, John
 Hoppncr, Thomas Lawrence, Thomas Stothard, Richard
We*tall, John Francis Rigaud, Richard Cofway, and Ed
mund Garvey, csqrs., council.
    James Northcote, , John Hoppner, Henry Thomson,
John Opic, Henry Tresham, John Francis Rigaud, Phil.
James de Loutherbourg, John Sing. Copley, esqrs, and
sir William Beechey, visitors.          John Francis Rigaud, and
John Soane, csqrs., auditors.
    Afterwards the following premiums were given to stu
dents, viz.
    Painting. —A gold medal to Mr. Douglas Guest, for the
best historical picture in oil colours ; the subject— bearing
the dead body of Patrcclus to the camp.
    Sculpture. — A gold medal to Mr. William Tohnach, for
the best ; the subject — chaining Prometheus to the rock.
    Architecture. — A gold medal to Mr. William Lockner,
for the best design of an elegant villa, with suitable offices.
Sec.  &c.
   A   silver medal to Mr. Lasc. Hoppner, for a drawing of
an academy figure.
    A silver medal to Mr. James Noch, for a drawing of an
academy figure.
   A silver medal to Mr. Richard Tomlinson, for a model
of an academy figure.
   A silver medal to Mr. J. G. Bubb, for a model of an
academy      figure.
   A    silver medal to Mr.  William Kinnaird, for      a drawing
in architecture ;
   And a silver medal to     Mr. James Eames, for       a drawing
in architecture.
BRITISH INSTITUTION FOR PROMOTING THE TINE ARTS.
   We     have already announced* the preliminary proceed
ings  for   the establishment of this laudable and most useful
                          • Vol. xxii, p. ea.
                                                      institution,

         British Institution  far promoting     the Fine Arts.    273
 institution. Since that tkne the Shakspeare gallery, held
 fora term of sixty-two years from lady-day 1805, under a-
 rent of 1251. a year, has been purchased as an exhibition
 room for the society for the sum of 453d. An ample fund
 has been provided by liberal subscriptions from those of the
nobility and gentry who are amateurs and encouragers of the
 fine arts ; and the institution has been regularly organized
under the patronage of the king. The following are the bye-
 laws of the institution.
                         Patron. —The king.
             Vice-patron. — The Prince of Wales.
                I. Of  the Object   of the Institution.
     \ . The primary object of the British Institution, under
 his majesty-s patronage, is to encourage and reward the
 talents of the artists of the united kingdom ; so as to im
 prove and extend our manufactures, by that degree of taste
 and elegance of design, which are to be exclusively derived
 from the cultivation of the fine arts ; and thereby to increase
 the general prosperity and resources of the empire.            It is
 conceived,   that such   an institution  is of peculiar importance
to the united kingdom at the present moment ; when efforts
 are making in different parts of Europe to promote the arts
 of painting, sculpture, and design, by great national esta
blishments, and thereby to wrest from us those advan
 tages, which can only be retained by a pre-eminence in the
 fine arts.
    2. With a view to this object it is intended to open a
public exhibition, for the sale of the productions of British
artists ; — to excite the emulation and exertions of the
younger artists by premiums ; — and to endeavour to form a
public gallery of the works of British artists, with a few
select specimens of each of the great schools.
    3. The exhibition is to be exclusively confined to the
productions of artists of, or resident in, the united king
dom ; and the higher branches of painting, sculpture, and
modelling, are to be considered as the preferable subjects of
premiums, and of purchases for the gallery.               All other
works, however, of the above-mentioned artists will be ad
missible, if deemed worthy.
    4. The British Institution being intended to extend and
increase the beneficial effects of the royal academy, which
has been founded by his majesty, and by no means to in
terfere with it in any respect, a favourable attention will
be paid to such pictures as have been exhibited at the royal
    Vol. 23. No. 9'. Dec. 1805,          S                academy;

274   British Tnsiittitionfur promoting             the Fine   Am.
academy    ; and the British Institution will be shut up during
their annual exhibition.
   5. The views or this establishment are directed, not only
to the promotion of the fine arts, but to the increase of the
honour and emolument of our own professional artists; the
institution being formed, not as a society, of artists, but
lor their benefit. No subscription will, therefore, be
expected from professional artists ; but their admission will
be otherwise provided for.      At the same time, if any artist
prefers   it,he may subscribe in any one of the classes of
subscription    ;and have the same privileges of admission
and introduction to the exhibition and gallery, as the other
subscribers of the same class       but no one will be capable
                                       ;
of being elected on any committee, or of voting as          go       a
vernor, while he continues to be professional artist.
                                           a
                          II. Of the   Governors.
     1. The government of the institution      shall be vested in
the present subscribers and contributors of 50 guineas, or
upwards, to the funds of the institution, together with such
other persons as shall be elected governors as aftermen-
tioned.     Those who have subscribed 50 guineas, or up
wards, and less than 100 guineas, being governors for life               ;
and those who have subscribed 1OO guineas, or upwards,
being hereditary governors, their rights being transmis
sible to their representatives, under the restrictions after-
ill en tioned.
     2. All the property of the institution shall be vested in
the hereditary governors, subject to the privileges of the
life governors, and of the annual and life subscribers.
     3. Every governor shall have the right of personal ad
mission to the institution, and of introducing two friends
each day to the exhibition and gallery.
     4. No governor shall be capable of any office, employ
ment, or engaEfement, in or under the institution, to which
 any salary, prolit, or emolument,        or shall be annexed.
                                               is
     5. Hereditary shares may be transferable, with the con
sent of the board of directors.
     6. In case of the death of an hereditary governor, his exe
 cutors or administrators may propose to the board of direc
tors  a   successor to his share and interest in the institution         :
and in case such .person so proposed shall be           legitimate
                                                               a
child of the deceased, such child shall be admitted immedi
ately ;   but    any other person than
                if                         legitimate child shall
                                                a
bt- proposed,       shall be optional in the board of directors,
                     it
                                                                 to

        British Institution  fur promoting llie Fine Arts. 27*
to elect him or her, or    not ; and if they do not elect him or
her, then they ahall pay out of the funds of the institution
to such person so proposed, such sum, not less than 100
guineas, as for the time being shall be the qualification of
an hereditary governor of the institution.
   7- Each governor shall have one vote for every 50 gui
neas subscribed.
   8. Such of the royal family as shall honour the institution
by being governors, may vote by proxy.
   9. Ladies, who shall be governors, may also vote by
proxy.
   10. As soon as it shall be found expedient, application
shall he made to his majesty, for a charter of incorporation
for the institution.
              III. Of the   Committee   of Directors.
   \ . All  the affairs and concerns of the institution shall be
managed     by a committee of directors, to be elected by and
from among the governors ; and to consist of the president,
four vice-presidents, and twelve other members ; and three
directors shall be competent to business.
   2. The president shall be elected annually, and shall pre
side at the general courts, and at the meetings of the com
mittee of directors.
   3. One vice-president and three other members of the
committee shall go out annually by rotation; but they may
be re-elected, if the annual court thinks fit.
   4. The directors shall havr. power to admit such pictures,
statues, and other works of art, as they shall think proper,
into the exhibition ; and to fix the time of their conti
nuance there upon sale, and to make such orders respecting
the admission and sale of pictures, and other works of art,
as they shall think fit.
   5. They shall have power, from time to time, to make
such regulations respecting their own meetings, and the
conduct of business therein, as they shall think fit, so as
such regulations be not contradictory to the by-laws of the
institution.
   6. The directors shall have power, with the consent of
the visitors, and with the approbation of the governors, to
make by-laws for the institution.
   7. The directors shall, with the approbation of the go
vernors, fix the flours and times for the opening of the ex
hibition and gallery, for the governors, honorary members,
and subscribers.
   8. They shall have power to order tickets of admission,
                               S 3                         under

276      British Institution for promoting  the Fine Arts.
under such limitations as they shall deem expedient, to ar
tists who are not royal academicians or subscribers.
                IV. Of the   Committee  of Visitors.
     1.  The committee of visitors shall consist of four vice-
presidents, a treasurer, and twelve other members, to he
elected by and from among the governors ; and three visi
tors shall be competent to business.
     2. One vice-president, and three other members of this
committee, shall po out annually by rotation ; but they may
be re-elected, if the annual court thinks fit.
     3. The treasurer shall be elected annually.
     4. The committee of visitors shall have the power of in
specting and examining the exhibition and gallery, and all
other parts of the institution, and reporting their opinion
thereon to the general court.
     5. They shall audit and examine the annual accounts of
the institution, and report thereon, and on the state of the
institution, to the annual meeting.
     6. They shall have the power of consenting to by-laws.
     7. They sha'l make such regulations respecting theirown
meetings and proceedings, as they shall think fit.
     8. They shall annually elect their own chairman, and
deputy chairman, from their four vice-presidents, and
 their own secretary from the twelve other members of the
 committee.
                 V. Offhe Election of    Governor!;.
      1. The qualification of a life governor shall be not les.«
 than 50 ginneas ; and that of an hereditary governor, not
 less than 100 guineas.
     2. Every candidate for election as a governor, must be
 proposed by a director at one meeting of directors, and at
 the next meeting of the directors the election may take
 place.
      3. The election of governors shall be by ballot, if re
 quired; and no person can be elected, unless two-thirds at
 least of the directors present vote in favour of his election.
      4. In case the person so elected shall not pay in his qua
 lification before his clcctior\, or within one kalendar month
  after, such election shall be absolutely void.
      5. Incase any person, who shall have paid in his quali
  fication as a governor, shall not be elected, he shall have his
 qualification repaid him, if he shall require it at any time
  within two kalendar months after he shall have notice that
  he is not elected.
                                                          VI. Of

          British Institution   for promoting  the Fine Arts.   277
                VI. Of the    annual and uther Courts.    -
      1 . The annual court for election of the president, vice-
  presidents, treasurer, directors, and visitors, and for re
  ceiving the annual report of the visitors, shall be held on the
  Tuesday preceding the 4th of June, precisely at one
  o-clock, P. M. ; and the persons then elected, shall enter
  on their respective offices on such 4th of June.
      2. The ballot for election shall commence at two o-clock,
  P.M., and continue open till three o-clock ; two scrutineers
  being previously appointed by the chairman, to examine the
  lists, and to declare the result of the ballot.
      3. When, at any election, the votes shall be equal, the
  chairman shall have a double or casting vo.te.
      4. Special courts may be called by the president, or in
  his absence by a vice-president, at the request of the com
  mittee of dirtctors, or upon the requisition in writing of
  thirteen governors.
      5. No court shall be competent for the transaction of
  business, unless nine governors be present; and if there
  shall not be nine governors present, the court may be ad
 journed for any time, not less than seven days, notice
  thereof being sent to the other governors.
      6. The president, or in his absence ono of the vice-pre
  sidents, or if no vice-president, one of the governors pre-
xseht, shall preside at the annual and oilier courts.
      7. When, at any court, the votes for and against a ques
  tion are equal, the consideration of the question shall be
  postponed till the next meeting, .y
     -8. If the business of any court he not completed on the
  day of the meeting, such court may adjourn from day to
  day, until the business is completed.
                     VI f . Of honorary   Members.
      1. Honorary members may be elected by the directors,
  and shall have the privilege of personal admission to the
  exhibition and gallery.
      2.  The   president of the royal academy, for the time
 being,    shall  be an honorary member of the institution, and
 every other     member    of the royal academy shall be presented
 with a silver medal, which will entitle him, or her, to per
  sonal admission to the exhibition and gallon-.
      3. No person shall be capable of being elected an hono
  rary member, except foreign ministers and foreigners of
  high rank or distinction.
                                   s \                   viir.   ry

   278      British Institution   for promoting   the  Fine Arts.
             VIIT. Of     the  Annual and Life Sulscrikers.
        1. Subscribers of fhv guineas a year or upwards, or of
    fifty guineas or upwards in one sum, shall have personal
    admission, and the ri2,hi of introducing two friends each
    day to the exhibition and gallery.
        2. Subscribers of three gumead a year, or of thirty gui
   neas in one sum, shall have personal admission, and the
   *ight of int:oducing one friend each day to the exhibition
    and gallery.
        3. Subscribers of one guinea a year, or of ten guineas in
   one sum, shall have personal admission to the exhibition
   and gallery.
                         IX. Of the Treasurer.
        1. The office of the treasurer     is honorary, and without
   emolument.        He is not to keep any money of the institu
   tion in his own hands, but to leave it with the bankers
   appointed by the directors.
       2. He is to pay such sums of money, and no other, as
   shall be ordered by the commi-tce of directors.
       3. He is to give security to the directors, with two pro
   per sureties, in the sum of 50001. for duly accounting for,
  and paying into the hands of the bankers appointed by the
  institution,     or otherwise as the directors shall appoint,
  all monies that shall come to his hands, on account of the
  institution.
       4. He shall   keep a general cash-book of all his receipts
  and payments, which shall be laid on the table of the com
  mittee of directors, at all their meetings.
       5. He shall make up his accounts to the 31st day of De
  cember every year, and lay them before the managers,
 annually, at their first meeting in the month of February
 following, in order to their being audited and laid before
 the visitors, so as to be reported to the annual court.
                 X. Oftlie    Officers of the Institution.
      The secretary, keeper, collector, and necessary attendants,
 shall from time to time be appointed, and their duties and
 salaries fixed by the directors, and reported by them to the
general court.
               XI. Of the     Receipt and Expenditure.
      I. One moiety of all subscriptions of fifty guineas, or
upwards, together with all legacies, shall be permanently
invested in I he public funds.         The other moiety, together
with a'l othtr subscriptions and monies received, shall be
applicable to the payment of the annual expenses of the
             5                                             institution,

        British Institution fur promoting  the Fine Arts.   279
institution, and in premiums for young artists ; and after
retaining what is necessary for payments due, and for cur
rent expenses, the surplus shall be annually applied in the
purchase of pictures, statues, models, and casts, for the
gallery, or in addition to the permanent stock of the in
stitution.
    2. No sale, mortgage, incumbrancc, or disposition of any
freehold or leasehold property of the institution, or of any
of its permanent stock shall be made, except with the ap
probation and concurrence of a general court, summoned
with eight days previous notice.
    The following circular letter, with an inclosure of the
by-laws, and list of subscribers, has been sent round to
such persons as were thought likdy to promore the objects
of the institution :
    "  The enclosed is submit ted to your consideration by
the undersigned, who have been appointed a select com
mittee to manage the concerns of the institution, until a
committee of directors is elected.     Convinced thai the pre
eminence, which the imitative arts attained in certain
distinguished periods of anticnt Greece and modern Italy,
was produced, not by fortuitous circumstances, but by
great and splendid patronage ; and persuaded that our own
countrymen are capable of the same excellence in the arts,
as they have attained in every branch of science and litera
ture, we solicit that they may be encouraged to consider
those excellent and immortal examples of the Grecian and
 Italian schools, as the objects, not merely of imitation,
but of competition.       In a country where native energy is
most abundant,      we  ask that professional lastc and talent,
and national patronage, be no longer confined to inferior
objects; but that our artist? mav lie encouraged to direct
their attention to higher and nobler attainments ; to paint
the mind and passions of man, to depicture his sympathies
and affections, and to illustrate the great events which have
been recorded in the history cf the world.
    " The fine arts are entitled to respect and reward, not
simply on account of the innocent and intellectual gratifi
cation which thev afford, nor merely because they cultivate
and civilize the human mind.        In a country like our own,
they essentially   and  abuiidvmly contribute to the national
prosperity    and resources.   It must be ob\ious that the pre
sent flourishing state of our manufactures and export trade,
is greatly owing.- to the progress of the fine arts under hie
malesty-s judicious patronage; and that in hardware, cot-
                               is 4                        ti n,

280   British Institution   for promoting   the   Fine Arts.
ton, and porcelain, and in every other article to which the
industry and attention of the British artisan has been ap
plied, superior beauty of form, and refined elegance of
ornament, have coniributed to make our manufactures
coveted throughout the world, and to introduce them into
every country, in despite of political warfare and penal
prohibition.
   " This preeminence, however, cannot be retained,x
                                                        but
by the assiduous cultivation of the fine arts. From those
original sources the taste of the country must be cherished
and renewed; so as at the same time to produce inex-
hausted variety, and to preserve classical beauty and chas
tity of design.    And it   is,in this respect, worthy of ob
servation, that if  we do not advance, we must recede        and
                                                               ;
that when we cease to improve, we shall begin to degene
rate. These considerations are of increased importance at
the present moment, when           appears to be the object of
                                  it
other powers, to form great establishments for painting and
sculpture, and to extend,     bythe arts of peace, the influence
which they have acquired in war. We feel, however, no
apprehension, but that the spirit of the British artist will
be a%vakened and invigorated, whenever free and fair scope
                                             a
shall be given to his talents — whenever he shall be stimu
                              ;
lated by  the same patronage as that which raised and re
warded the Italian and Grecian masters —          ;  patronage,
                                                      a
without which,   if  we refer to historical evidence, we shall
find that no high excellence in art has ever been obtained,
in any ace, or in any country.
   -" Unaer these impressions, we beg leave to address
                                                            you,
and the other protectors of the fine arts, on the establish
ment of the British Institution        ;  the principal object
whereof    isto encourage and reward the talents of the artists
of the united kingdom, and to open an exhibition for the
sale of their productions.   For the attainment of this object
we earnestly solicit your assistance and patronage request;
ing to be favoured with your directions, in which of the
classes of subscription you will permit your name to be
enrolled.         "   We have the honour to be,
                        your obedient humble servants,
            DARTMOUTH.                     ABRAHAM HUME.
            ABERCORN.                      FRANCIS BARING.
            LOWTHER.                       R. P. KNIGHT.
            MULGRAVE.                      THOMAS HOPE.
            ISAAC CORRY.                   WILLIAM SMITH.
            CHARLES LONG.                  THOMAS BERNARD."
            GEORGE BEAUMONT.
                                                                   The

     British Institution for promoting    the Fine Arts.   281
  The committee      of directors consists of    the following
governors :
        The Earl of Dartmouth, president.
                          For one year.
       The marquis of Abercorn, vice-president.
        Lord North wick".
        Sir George Beaumont, Bart.
        Thomas Bernard,      esq.
                        For two Years.
        The marquis of Stafford, vice-president.
        Right hon. Isaac Corry, M. P.
        Sir Abraham Hume, bart.
        Thomas Hope, esq.
                        For three Years.
        The earl of Egremont, vice.president.
        Lord Mulgrave.
        Sir Francis Baring, bart. M. P.
        Richard P. Knight, esq. M. P.
                        For four Years.
        Lord viscount Lowther, vice-president.
        Ritrht hon. Charles Lone;,   M. P.
        William Smith, esq. ML P.
        Philip Metcalf, esq. M. P.
  The committee of visitors consists of the following      go
vernors  :
                          For one Year.
        The duke of Bedford, vice-president.
        The earl Camden.
        John J. Angerstein, esq.
        John Symmons, esq.
                         For two Years.
        The  earl of Bridgewater, vice-president.
        Samuel Whitbread, esq. M. P.
        Samuel Thornton, esq. M. P.
        John Egerton,    esq.
                        For  three Years.
        The earl of Essex, vice-president.
        Lord De Dunstanville.
        Charles Duncombe, esq. M. P.
        Charles   Wall,  esq.
                        For four Years.
        The earl of Aylesford, vice-president.
        Lord Dundas.
        George Hibbert, esq.
        Caleb Whitefoord, esq.
        William Morland, esq. M. P. treasurer.
                                                   LIV. Intel

         LIV.         Intelligence and Miscellaneous            Articks.
                          LETTER     ON   MALLEABLE ZINC.
       SIR,
JL AM induced to request        your insertion of the following
 notice, in consequence of having read in your magazine for
  October*, an account of Messrs. Hobson and Silvester-s
 discovery of a method of making zinc ductile or malleable.
  I do not mean at all to question that the above-named gen
 tlemen did really of themselves make the discovery of this
 property of zinc ; yet, as I am acquainted with one who has
 a prior claim to the discovery, I think the public should
 be informed of the fact, as the reputation or first inventor
 is often the only reward an ingenious man has for his la-
hour.     About twenty years ago, Mr. W. E. Sheffield, of
 Somers Town (an eminent metallurgist), making an assay
 of some blende, and being rather impatient to examine the
 metal, struck an ingot with an intent to break          while     it,       it
 was yet hot but was greatly surprised to find, that instead
                  ;
 of being brittle and breaking with the usual fracture of zinc,
it   was extremely tough, and when broken (after many
bendings back and forward) exhibited steel -grained fibrous
                                                      a
 texture.    Doubting whether his metal was only zinc, he
 repeated  the  experiment, and with some that he knew to
be pure, and had the same result         from which he immedi
                                                ;
ately   concluded   that  zinc,  at    certaina temperature, was
probably    as malleable  as the  other  metals.   This he found
to be the case both in drawing          into wire and laminating
                                               it
it  between rollers     specimens of this last, not the 200lh
                              :
of an inch thick, possessing the strength and tenacity of
silver,I   had from him for      particular purpose, long before
                                          a
the annunciation of Messrs. Hobson and Silvester-s patent.
Mr. Sheffield has long been in the habit of furnishing the
cabinets of his mineralogical friends, both at home and
abroad, with       variety of specimens of manufactured and
                      a
laminated zinc.
 57, Tichfield-street,                                i     >      ,
    Dec. S3, 1805.                                              W. LOWRT.
                                    CHEMISTRY.
     Mr. Parkes, manufacturing    chemist, has for some time
past been              in preparing an elementary chemical
                  engaged
work, in      catechetical form, for the use of schools, and
              a
fpr the instruction of those persons who are unacquainted
                              Page 93 of the present volume .
                          •
                                                                           with

                Chemical Catechism. — Galvanism.               383
  with chemical     science.     And  in order to remove in
  some   measure   the difficulties which ftuch persons find in
  acquiring chemical knowledge, we understand that he has
  observed the utmost simplicity of language and arrange
  ment, and has varied the mode of putting the questions,
  whenever the subjects seemed to reqinre more than ordinary
  elucidation.    A very copious collection ot Notes will be
  subjoined for the use of the preceptor in explaining the
  doctrines taught in the body of the work, and for the pur
  pose of pointing out the connection which subsists between
  chemistry and The arts, and showing the various ways iu
  which the several substances in nature are applied in the
  manufactures of the country.       We understand that he in
  tends to annex a vocabulary of chemical terms, various
  useful tables, a chapter of amusing experiments, and re
  ferences to the most approved treatises in every department
  of the science. The work (now in the press) will be
  ready for publication the beginning of February.          It will
  be entitled a Chemical Catechism, and will be comprised
  in one volume, octavo.
                            GALVANISM.
     Doctor Joseph Baronio has published at Milan the de
  scription of a Galvanic pile, formed of vegetable materials
  only. The author cut disks of horse-radish and beet-root
  of about two inches in diameter ; aftcwards he prepared
  equal disks of walnut-tree wood.       The latter disks are so
  raised at their edges as to contain a little solution of acidu
  lous tartrite of pstash in vinegar, in which they have been
  previously boiled, to purge them from the resinous princi-
'
  pie which the walnut-tree contains.        By forming the pile
  with sixty pairs of disks, one of horse-radish, the other of
  beet-root, with disks of wood between the pairs, -and ia
  each of these a little of the abovementioned solution, -he
  obtained Galvanic effects, in a prepared frog, of which, by
  means of a leaf of Cochk-aria, he m:ide the spinal marrow
  communicate with the base of the pile, while by a double
  band of trray papc-r, well moibtuicd wi;h vinegar, he made
  its muscles communicate with the top of the pile.
     The description of the apparatus is so clear and detailed,
  as to prove that the author, who is already known by se
  veral productions in physical science, wishes that philoso
  phers and amateurs should repeat his experiment.
     For horse-radish and beet-root, the author has already
  substituted disks of other vegetables with equal success,
  and he flatters himself that these will serve to extend the
                                                       application

284                           Astronomy.
application of the theory of Galvanism to universal ve
getation.
   Experiments, which have been made conformable to the
theory of M. de Vassalli-Eandi, viz. that there is a deve
lopment of Galvanism as often as there is a change of
capacity, or a chemical mutation in bodies, and to those of
Dr. Gardini, of the professors Vassalli-Eandi and Balbis,
who have obtained Galvanic effects from plants by applying
conductors to the branches and the roots ; the experiments
also which are conformable to those of professor Rossi,
who has formed with success Galvanic piles with vegetables,
particularly with sensitive plants and with animals, especi
ally the cold-blooded, without the intervention of any me
tal ; those experiments, with several others made by the
academicians of Turin, have induced some philosophers to
suspect that the Galvanic fluid is one of the component
parts of a natural fluid spread through all bodies in nature,
which is put into motion by the chemical action of sub
stances in a state of decomposition, and that it concurs with
the other components of the natural fluid to the formation
and preservation of all bodies.
                             ASTRONOMT.
  Table    of  the rigltt Ascension and Declination of   Ceres,
               Pallas, and Juno, for January 1806.
                         CERES.                  JUNO.
                    A.R.       Dec. N.       A.R.     Dec. S.
       1806.     h   m    5      6  f     h    m   •   o  /
       Jan. 3     7  20   O     29 15     11  41  52   2 37
             6    7  16  52     29 31     11  42 52    2 37
             9    7  13  44     29 46     11  43 44    2 36
           12     7  10 36      3O   0    11  44 24    2 33
           15     7   7 40      30 13     11  44 48    2 28
           18         4 44      30 25         45 0
                  724
                  7                       11           2 21
           21                   30 35     11  45 0     2 12
           24     6  59 28      3O 45    11   44 44    2  2
           27     6 57   12     30 53     11  44 16    1 49
           30     6 55     8    31   0    11  43  32   1 35-
     i
                   Pallas is too low to be seen.
                                                             HEW

          New    Comet. — Composition of Muriatic Acid.               28.5
                             NEW COMET.
    On Sunday the 8th of December, about six o-clock in
the evening, Mr. Firminger, the assistant at the royal ob
servatory, Greenwich, discovered a comet in the constel
lation Aquarius, a little to the east of south.               Its appear
ance   to  the   naked   «ye  was    similar    to  a  star  of   the first
magnitude,       when   covered    by   a cloud,     through which it
might    be  faintly seen;    or   rather  like    what  Jupiter would
appear     under    similar  circumstances       :  but   when viewed
through     a night-glass,   it  appeared    to  have  a  bright nucleus
surrounded by a coma.
    As it was approaching the meridian when first discovered,
Mr. Firminger made preparations to take its transit, and
found that its light was sufficiently strong to enable him to
illuminate the wires in the focus of the telescope, so as to
observe its passage with great accuracy.
    The mean time of its transit was 6h 24' 7", with right
ascension 11' 23° 6' 49", and south declination 23° 41' 8".
    On the following evening it was looked for again ; but
though the sky was very clear, it could not be seen.                  It is
therefore very probable it may be moving towards its peri
helion, and should this be the case, astronomers may ex
pect to find it again in Its return from the sun.
    The same comet was, we understand, observed by Dr.
Herschel, at Slough, near Windsor, about the same time
that it was discovered by Mr. Firminger.
                COMPOSITION OF MURIATIC ACID.
    In our present number (see page 257) is inserted a third
communication from Mr. Peel of Cambridge, on the pro
duction of muriatic acid and alkalis, by the decomposition
 of water. Here we have to state the result of an experi
 ment on the same subject by another gentleman.
    By continuing to pass the Galvanic fluid from a trough
 holding about forty pair of square inch plates through di
 stilled water contained in a glass tube, furnished at one
 end with a wire of gold, and at the other with a wire of
 platina, at length a coating of oxide of gold was deposited
 on the gold .wire — evidentty proving that oxygenated mu
 riatic acid had been formed by the process.
     If we are rightly informed, this experiment was per
 formed by Mr. Cuthbertson — as fit a person as any in the
 world for experiments of this sort.

   266          Cure  for  the Droptif. — Craniognomy.
                       CURE FOR THE DROPSY.
     The following letter has been received hy the editor of
  the Reading Mercury, from Mr. T. H. Shrimpton, governor
  of the house of industry at Faringdon, dated August 30,
  1805  : — " In your   paper a few WCCKS since I observed that
  bohea tea, and the leaves to be eaten, was recommended as
  a cure for the dropsy ; and as I had a pauper in the house
 at the time, I ventured the experiment, and, to my astonish-
.ment, found an almost instant relief.         I repeated the dose
 but once; and the woman, in the course of a week, was
 able to go o\it to haymaking, and will begin reaping for me
 next week, if the weather continues fine. The woman-s
 name is Elizabeth Austin, and her age is (52 years." —The
recipe alluded to above is as follows : — Infuse two large tea-
cupt-ulls of the tea in about a quart of water : let the decoc
tion be drunk during the day, and the leaves eaten at short
 intervals.
    Since the above made its appearance in different news
papers, another instance of the good effects of the prescrip
tion has been published: —A woman in Anderston, in the
neighbourhood of Glasgow, who has been afflicted with a
dropsical complaint since the month of June, has received
great relief, and there is a fair prospect of a cure, from
eating tht leaves of Bohea tea.
                            CRANIOGNOMY.
    Doctor Gall,     the craniographic lecturer, is now giving
lectures    in Denmark, and counts among his approvers in
Copenhagen, the philosophers Kailisin, Scheele, Fenger,
and others.
                          TO THE EDITOR.
       SIR,
    Dining a few days ago with a friend, and being asked the
reason why potatoes were sweet after being frosted, I found
myself somewhat at a loss to give a satisfactory answer.        If
any of your correspondents, through the medium of your
useful magazine, can give a rational description of the
process by which the effect of cold disengages the saccha
rine principle of potatoes, more particularly than of other,
vegetable roots, it will very much oblige a constant reader,
and may perhaps be useful to some more important pur
pose in domestic or rural ceconomy.
     Bedford-row,
   December, 1805.
                                                             LIST

             List of Patents for New Inventions.           287
          LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
   To John De Lafons, of Threadneedle-street,      in the city
of London, watchmaker;        for a marine alarum chronome
ter, for ascertaining the time of a ship-s log line running
out, the time of the watches on ship board, and many other
useful purposes. Dated November 19.
   To George Wyke, of Winsley, in the county of Wilts,
esq. ; fora method of working pumps of various descrip
tions by machinery, whereby much manual labour will be
spared.    Dated November 1 9.
   To Richard Brown, of the parish of St. Botolph, Bishops-
gate, in the city of London, cabinet-maker ; for improve
ments in the construction of several parts of tables, and of
various other articles of household-furniture,    which stand
upon or are supported by legs or feet.         Dated Novem
ber 26.
    To James Ingram, of Castle-street, in the city of Bristol;
 for a new method of manufacturing powder sugar from raw
 sugar alone, and from the mixtures of raw sugar and syrup
 of sugar. Dated November 26.
    To Samuel Annoss, of Red-Lion-place, in the parish of
 St. Sepulchre, in the city, of London, china enameler ; for
 improved methods of preparing various enamel colours,
 and of applying the same so prepared to the ornamenting
 of useful vessels of glass. Datea November 26.
    To Joseph Steel, of Stockport, in the county of Chester ;
 for cloths, fustians, calicos, cambrics, lawns, striped cot
 ton, and other articles manufactured with cotton, wool,
 and flax, fluxed and spun together.     Dated December 17-
                                                    MF.TF.ORO-

  288                               Meteorology.
                          meteorological table
                 By Mr. Carev, of the Strand,
                             For   December        1805.
                                                        1 in
                  Thermometer.
                                                      i'"     '                1- i
                ^   be
                                         Height of
 Days of the                     o £
    Month.      JH
                y> o
                           a
                           o
                           0    -J  i».
                                        the Barortl.  a >. e
                                                      i-»_3 £
                                                             s        Weather.
                          £                Inches.
                £S
   Nov.     27   41°      44°    40°     30M2              7°     Foggy
            28   36      43      42      29-90             8      Fair
            29   47       54     51           •50          5      Showery
            30   51       54     50           •25.         0      Rain
      Dec. l     44      45      37           •19          0      Rain
             S   34      37      34           •75        15       Fair
             3   35      41     47            •91          0     Rain
             4   47      52     47       30-00            0      Rain
             5   44      47     46            •25        10      Fair
             6 50        52      50           •15          6     Cloudy
             7 50        53     48       29'90            0      Rain
             8   44      45     41            •80        12      Fair
             9   44      41     33           •19          0      Rain
            10   34      39     32           •20          6      Fair
            11   30      37     31           •55         10      Fair, with snow
                  »
                                                                    at night
            12   32      34     24           •30          5      Cloudy
            13   23      28     29           •60         10      Fair
            14   29      33     33           •59          0      Snow
            15   33      37     32           •80          5      Cloudy
            16   27      32     28       30-12           11      Fair
            17   25      31     29           ;38          7      Cloudy
            18   34      37     35           •25          6      Cloudy
            19   35      42     44       29-92            8      Rain
           20    46      49     48           •50          0      Rain
           SI   49       52     44           •03          0      Rain
           22    39      46     38       28-85            6      Fair
           23    34      37     31       29-50            6      Fair
           24   36       37     32           •65          7      Fair
           25   33       41     40           •74          0      Rain
           26   44       46     37      28-95             0      Rain
               N. B. The     barometer's height is taken at noon.
   Errata. —In     our last Number, page 108, line 10,          for Plate IV read
Plate  VI.j page  137, line 21, for Plate V. read Plate IV.

                               [    289     ]
LV.    Abstract of Olservatlons on a diurnal Variation of the
    Barometer between the Tropics.               By J. HORSBURGH,
    Esq.   In  a  Letter  to HENRY CAVENDISH, Esq. F.R.S.*
        SIR,                                        Bombay, April 20, 180*.
      HEN I was in London at the conclusion of the year
 180i, 1 had the pleasure of being introduced to you by my
friend Mr. Dalrymple, at which time he presented you
 with some sheets of meteorological observations, with ba
rometer and thermometer, made by me in India, and during
a passage from India to England.
    Being of opinion that few registers of the barometer are
kept at sea, especially in low latitudes, I have been induced
to continue my observations since I left England, judging
that, even if they were found to be of no utility, they might
at least be entertaining to you or other gentlemen who have
been making observations of a similar nature.
    During my last voyage I have employed two marine ba
rometers, one made by Tronghton, the other by Ramsden ;
and a thermometer by Frazer.             These were placed, exposed         -
to a free current of air, in a cabin where" the basons of the
barometers    were 13 feet above the level of the sea.
    The hours at which the heights of the barometers and
thermometers were taken, viz. noon, four hours, ten hours,
twelve hours, sixteen hours, and nineteen                   hours, were
chosen,    because    at tht se  times     the  mercury in the baro
meter   had  been   perceived   to  be  regularly stationary between
the tropics by former observations made in India in 180O
and 1S01.      It was found that in settled weather in the In
dian seas, from eight A. M. to noon, the mercury in the
barometer was generally stationary, and at the point of
greatest elevation ; after noon it began to fall, and conti
nued falling till four in the afternoon, at which time it ar
rived at the lowest point of depression.               From four or five
P.M. the mercury rose again, and continued rising till
about nineoricn P.M., at which time it had again ac
quired its greatest point of elevation, and continued sta
tionary nearly till midnight ; after which it began to fall,
till at four A. M. it was again as low as it had been at four
iu the afternoon preceding ; but from this time it rose till
seven or eight o-clock, when it reached the highest point
of elevation, and continued stationary till noon.
    Thus was the mercury observed to be subject to a regular
elevation and depression twice in every twenty-four hours
          • From the Transacting
                                   of the Rnyal Society for 18OS.
Vol.,23. No.     92. Jan.   1806.        T                             in

   290           Observations  on a diurnal Variation
   in  settled weather ; and the lowest station was observed to
   be at about four o-clock in the morning and evening.          I
   remarked that the mercury never remained long fixed at
   this low station, but had a regular tendency to rise from
   thence till towards eight in the morning and about nine in
   the evening, and from those times continued stationary till
   noon and midnight.
      In unsettled blowing weather, especially at Bombay
   during the rains, these regular ebbinos and flowings of the
   mercury could not be perceived ; but a tendency to them
   was at some times observable when the weather was more
   settled.
      In the sheets which I formerly presented to you were
  evinced these elevations and depressions twice every twenty-
  four hours within the tropics, in steady weather, as had
  been observed by Messrs. Cassan and Peyrouse, by Dr. Bal-
  four of Calcutta, and others. But since my last arrival in
  India I have observed that the atmosphere appears to pro
  duce a different effect on the barometer at sea from what
  it does on shore.
      As I am ignorant whether this phaenomenon has been
 noticed by any person before, I will here give you an ab
 stract of my journal, showing how the barometer has been
 influenced during the whole time since I left England,
 which will enable you to form an idea whether I am right
 in concluding that the barometer is really differently affected
 at sea from what it is on shore, at those places in India
 where the observations have been made.
     The first sheet begins with the observations made on
 board ship, in my voyage from London towards Bombay,
 in the months of April and May 1802.
     From the time of leaving the Land-s End, April I9th, the
motion of the mercury in barometers was fluctuating and
irregular until we were in latitude 26° north, longitude 20°
west, on April 29th ; the mercury in barometers then be
came uniform in performing two elevations and two de
pressions every twenty-four hours, (which for brevity in
mentioning hereafter I will call equatropical motions.)
From latitude 26° north to latitude 10° north, the differ
ence of the high and low stations of the mercury in the
barometers was not so great as it was from latitude 10°
north across the equator, and from thence to latitude 25°
south.       Within these last-mentioned limits the difference
of high and low stations of the mercury in the barometers
was very considerable, generally from five to nine hundred
parts of an inch, both in the daily and nightly motions.
                                                        When

             of the Barometer  bet ween the Tropics.       29 1
    When we reached the latitude of 28° south, longitude
 27° west, June 7th, the mercury in barometers no longer
 adhered to the equatropical motions ; but then, as in high
 north latitudes, its rising and falling became irregular and
fluctuating during our run from latitude 28° south, longi
tude 27° west (mostly between the parallels of 35° and 36°
south), until we were in latitude H]' south and longitude
51° east, on the 1 1th of July.    The mercury then began to
perform the equatropical motions, and continued them uni
 formly during our run from the last. mentioned position, up
the Madagascar archipelago, across the equator, until our
arrival at Bombay July 31, lb02.
    August 6th, 1802. When the barometers were placed on
shore in Bombay, the mercury, for the first six days, ap
peared to have a small tendency towards performing the
equatropical motions, but not equally perceptible as when
at sea, the difference between the high and low stations of
 the mercury in the barometers being great to the day we
entered the harbour of Bombay.          From the 12th of Au
gust to the 22d, the mercury could not, in general, be ob
served to have any inclination to perform the equatropical
motions, although, at times, a very small tendency towards
performing them might be perceived.
    On the 23d of August the barometers were taken from,
the shore to the ship.      Immediately on leaving Bombay
harbour, August 26th, 1802, the mercury in the barometers
performed the equatropical motions, and continued thent,
with great uniformity, during our passage down the Ma
labar coast, across the bay of Bengal, in the strait of Ma
lacca, and through the China sea, until our arrival in
Canton river on the 4th of October.         When in the river,
the mercury became nearly stationary during the twenty-
four hours, except a small inclination at times towards the
equatropical motions, but they were not near so perceptible
as at sea; this change taking place the day we got into the
river.
   During our stay in China, the barometer on shore, at
Canton, had verv little tendency towards the equatropical
motions throughout the months of October and November
that we remained there.      At times, while in China, a small
inclination towards performing the equatropical motions
appeared ; but, as in Bombay, the difference of rise and
fall was of so small a quantity as to be frequently imper
ceptible.
   December 2d, 1 802. On our departure from Canton river
<U+2666>he equatropical motions were instantly performed by the
                             T 2                     mercury.

fi99           Observations on a diurnal Variation
mercury, and with great regularity, continued during the
whole of the passage to Bombay, until our arrival in that
harbour on the 1 Uh of January 1803.
   On January 18th the barometers were placed on shore,
and did not appear in the smallest degree subject to the
equatropical motions; although, with great regularity, they
had been performed while at sea, even to the day we en
tered the harbour.     One of the barometers was left on board
for a few days, and, like that on shore, seemed to have
no tendency towards the equatropical motions. During the
mouths of February and March, in Bombay, the mercury
was nearly stationary throughout the twenty-four hours.
But about the latter part of March the mercury seemed to
incline towards the equatropical motions in a very small
degree; and, during the month of April, and to the 20th
of May, this small tendency of the mercury to perform the
motions appeared at times, but was hardly discernible, the
rise and fall being of so small a quantity.     From the 18th
of January to the 20th of May the mercury in the baro
meters was in general stationary, except a very small ten
dency towards the equatropical motions at times. At other
times some change in the atmosphere disturbed the mercury
from its stationary position : hut this was seldom the case,
as it was then the fair weather season, or north-east mon
soon.
   We sailed from Bombay on the 23d of May 1803. The
instant we got out of the harbour the mercury in the baro
meters conformed to the equatropical motions with great
regularity, and the difference between the high and low
stations was very considerable during the whole of the pas
sage to China, excepting a few days in the eastern parts of
Malacca strait, where the land lay contiguous on each side
of us : the difference between the high and low stations of
the mercury was then not so great as in the open sea. On
clearing the strait, and entering the China sea, the equa-
tropicat motions were performed in greater quantity, and
continued regular during our passage up the China sea,
until July 2d, 1803. We then entered Canton river, and
the equatropical motions of the mercury in barometers en-r
tirely ceased.
   From July 8th to September 7th, the barometers were
placed on shore in Canton, during which time the mercury
appeared to have no tendency towards performing the equa^
tropical motions ; but it inclined to a stationary position,
except when influenced by changes of weather.        After the
barometers were taken from Canton to the ship, we were
                                                          four

             of the Barometer between the Tropics.         293
four days in getting clear of the river, in which time the
mercury inclined to be stationary, excepting that a email in
clination towards the equatropical mptions seemed to evince
itself at times. But no sooner had we cleared Canton river,
September 13th, 1803, than the mercury in the barometers
began to conform to the equatropical motions, of two ele
vations and two depressions every twenty-four hours, at
equal intervals of time, (although we were near the land
until the 15th of September.)        And the mercury, with
great regularity, continued to perform the equatropical
motions from September 13th, 1803, the day we cleared the
river of Canton, until October 1 3, when we entered Sin-
capore strait, excepting a small degree of irregularity,
which affected the mercury on the 22oof September, when
it blew a gale on the coast of Isiompa.
    October 13th, 1803. On entering the strait of Sincapore,
which is about three leagues and a half wide, the mercury
in the barometers was then a little obstructed, and did not
perform the equatropical motions in the same quantity of
rise and fall as when we were in the China sea.        But on
the following day, October 14th, when we had passed the
narrow part of the strait, the mercury conformed to those
motions with regularity until October 2 1st, when we arrived
in the harbour of Prince of Wales-s Island : then a great
retardation took place in the equatropical motions ; for,
during the time the ship remained in the harbour, from
October 20th to November 5th, 1803, the<tnercury in baro
meters seemed only in a small degree subject to them, the
difference between the high and low stations of the mercury
being in general not more ihan half the quantity that takes
place in the open sea, or at a considerable distance from
land. Where the ship lay at this time in the harbour, the
laud, on one side, was a full quarter of a mile distant, and
on the other side about a mile and a half.
    On November 5th, being clear of the harbour of Prince
of Wales-s Island, the equatropical motions were instantly
performed by the mercury in the usual quantity experienceii
at sea, which continued with uniformity until December 3d.
On this and the following day the mercury fell considerably
during our passage over the tails of the sands at the entrance
of Hoogly river in latitude 21° 06' north ; and on Decem
ber 5th, the day of the moon-s last quarter, a gale of wind
commenced from north-north-ea»t, with much lightning
and rain in the night.   During the latter part. of this day
the mercury began to rise, and there soon followed a change
of settled weather. When we were in the lower part of
                             T3                            the

99*       Variation   of t fie Barometer between tlie Tropics.
 the river the mercury appeared to conform in a small de
 gree to the equatropical motions ; but when well up the
 river, at Diamond harbour, the mercury inclined to be
 nearly stationary during the twenty-four hours, as has for
merly been observed to happen in Canton river, Bombay
 harbour, &c.
     On January 13th, 18O4, after we had cleared the river
Hoogly, the mercury in the barometers began to perform
its motions with uniformity, which continued during the
passage to Bombay until our arrival there on February 12th.
The barometers being then placed on shore, the mercury
inclined to a stationary position, without evincing any pro-
 pensity-towards the equatropical motions from the 12th to
the 18th of February 1804, as has been noticed in the fore
going description to happen frequently on entering a har
bour from sea.
     On February 1 8th, 1 804, the meteorological journal ceases,
at which time it comprises the observations of twenty-two
months, having commenced April 6th, 1802, in Margate
Boad.
     I have taken the liberty of sending you this abstract from
the journal, to exhibit the apparent difference of the mer
cury in the barometer at sea, from what has been observed
on shore, at those places mentioned in the preceding de
scription.       As I have not seen any account indicating the
phenomenon, I thought it might be interesting to you, or
other gentlemen of the Royal Society, to forward this im
perfect abstract, the journal itself being too cumbersome to
send home at present. But as I am in expectation of return
ing to England by the ships from China next season, I hope
 I shall be enabled to present you with the meteorological
 sheets alluded to above.
                                      I am, 8cc.
                                                  J. HonSBUBGH.
     P. S. Since    I  wrote the foregoing abstract     I  have re
 ceived a letter from my friend Mr. Dalrvmplc, intimating
 that a copy of the meteorological journal itself would be
               ; which has induced me to transmit to him the
acceptable
 original   sheets,   with a request to deliver them to you.       I
 regret   that  I could   not find leisure time to make out a fair
 copy to have sent to you, in place of the original sheets in
-their rough state.
      Bombay,
   juut 1,1804.
                                                          LVI. An

                               [  295    ]
LVI. An      experimental Inquiry into ilie Nature of Gravelly
    and Calculous Concretions in the Human Subject ; aim,
    the Effects of Alkaline and Acid Substances on them,
    in and out of the Body.           By Thomas Egan, M.D.
    M.R.I.A.
                        [Continued from p. 'J 12.]
  J. hese facta being pretty well established and acknowv
ledged, it is time to inquire how far we may account for
them ; and whether experiments, instituted out of the body,
may not throw some light on this subject. Dr. Saunders,
in a letter to Dr. Percival, (Percival's Essays, Medical and
Experimental, vol. iii.) on the subject of carbonic acid as
a solvent of calculous concretions, observes,        "  If a more
             and active solvent than any hitherto known shall
Eowerful
   e discovered,  it is highly probable that such a discovery
can only be made by a rational and chemical inquiry into the
 powers of different bodies of combining with the contents
of the urine, and preserving them in a fluid state out of the
body." Now, on the other hand, we may presume, that
 whatever substances cause a separation or precipitation of
 uric acid, in an aggregate slate, from healthy urine, will
give rise to these disorders.       For we are not to forget that
the uric acid, which forms so large a proportion of calcu
 lous concretions, and the entire of the gravelly, is a natural
 secretion from the hlood, performed by the functions of the
 kidneys, and excreted by the urine, and can only be pre
judicial by a previous morbid separation from it within the
 body.     With this necessary view of the subject before us,
 (for which we are, as already observed, indebted to Boer-
 haave,) I resolved to try, 1st, What might be the effects of
 acids of different kinds on healthy urine, as to their influence
 in causing this same previous precipitation ; and, 2dlv, that
 of alkaline substances in preventing it. And here it must
 be observed, that to draw any satisfactory conclusions from
 experiments made with these substances out of the body,
 we must suppose they reach the kidneys and blend with
 the urine, still possessing their relative distinctive proper
 ties ; and that this takes place, we have every reason to
 presume.      Doctors Percival and Saunders, Mr. Bewley,
 and others, have ascertained the presence of carbonic acid,
 in an uncombined state, in the urine of those who drank
 the mephitic water for some days : an acid certainly foreign
 to its recent healthy state; for, after repeated trials, by
beating it to nearly ebullition in one of Priestley's air bot-
                  X%             T4                          ties,

296          On  Grardly and Calculous   Concretions.
ties, I never cou'd procure the separation or transition of a
single bubble of carbonic acid into a jar of lime water.
And if this weak acid reaches the kidneys undecomposed
or uncombined, we shall have less difficulty in believing; the
more powerful ones may do so. That the tartarous acid in
the combination of the acidulous tartari te of potash exerts
powerful effects on the functions of the kidneys, is well
known ; and that the urine rs at the same tirrie rendered
more acid, I have repeatedly ascertained by the usual tests.
    We may say the same of the other vegetable acids, which
manifest also diuretic powers, and increase the natural
acidity of the urine.      Linnaeus, in his second volume of
the Amcenitatcs Academicce, Db Gcnesi Calculi, already
quoted, mentions his having made the following experi
ment to this purpose. He says : " Iliscc diebus ipse ex-
perimcntum institui cum urina; hasc cornmunitcr a solu-
tione laemus parum admodum rufescit; at si libram unam
vel alteram vini Rhenani, vel alterius vini acidi hauserim,
post horam unam vel plures, valde rubra et rutilans evadit
urina, ab affusa solutione laemus ; certo indicio, acidum
vini totum corpus permeasse, et urinam infecisse."         Nor
 should we wonder that these energetic substances should
 pass unaltered to the kidneys, when we find so many mild
vegetable matters do so.      I will not mention the commu
nication of so volatile a principle as odour, but will more
 particularly dwell on that of colour.      Rhubarb, turmeric,
 madder, and many other substances, so completely impart
 their colour to urine, that they would appear to be very
 little altered.   Nay, the juice of the beta vulgaris, a mild
 esculent of .the pentandrous class, so deeply reddens it as
 to cause it to be mistaken for bloody urine, of which a
 late instance has occurred in my practice.
     As to alkaline substances, it has been at all times known
 that they communicate their properties to this excremen-
 titious liquor.    A perseverance in the use of the aqua kali
purl of the shops for a few days, even in small doses, con
 verts its acescent into the alkaline state ; and we have every
  reason to suppose that the same takes place with the car-
 honate3,     which are taken in so much larger quantities.
 This seems confirmed by experiments made in London'and
  Paris; and the alkalescent impregnation of the urine was
  ascertained by the formation and precipitation of the acidu
  lous tartarite of potash upon the addition of the tartarous
  acid.    Yet, from a good deal of experience in these matters,
  I  may aver, that as to the carbonates the dose must be con
  siderable, (which was the case in London,) and continued
                                                             for

             On Gravelly and Catculous Concretions.
For some time, having frequently given two scruples of de
siccated soda (containing, according to Mr. Kirwan, 23-ft4
grains,) in the twenty-four hours, for some days together,
without any diminution of the usual acidity of this liquor.
      For the information of such of my readers as may not
be of the medical profession, I must here observe, that phy
sicians distinguish two kinds of urine: the one rendered
immediately after meals, and much dilution, before the
process of digestion, or state of sleep, can take place ; al
ways more or less limpid ; being comparatively less charged
with the natural component parts of urine, (the uree,
or extractive colouring matter, in particular,) and called
 nrina potus, to distinguish it from the urina sanguinis, ren
 dered many hours after meals and sleep, the taking no more
 than a necessary quantity of liquids, and containing the
 usual proportion of saline and other ingredients ; more espe
 cially the uree, to which it owes its natural citrine colour.
      This last, therefore, was that employed in the following
 experiments, if not otherwise specified ; with the chemical
 history of which I must suppose gentlemen of the profes
 sion now tolerably well acquainted, being so fully and ac
 curately detailed in the tenth volume of the Connoissanccs
 Chimiques.
      Having, in the preceding pages, insisted so much on the
 acids and acescent drinks as occasional causes of these com
  plaints, the first object scSmed to be, to ascertain whether
  the urine of those most subject to them, or actually labour
  ing under them, was more relatively acid. We have al
  ready seen, from a register of these patients, kept for forty
          in the hospital of Luneville, that the early period of
    ife, from two to six years of age inclusive, is most liable
  f-ears
  to calculous affections.    Now, the urine of healthy chil
  dren is always found more acid than that of adults, ge
  nerally in the proportion of two to one. Whilst several
  drops of the latter are requisite to redden a given quantity
   of infusion of litmus, a single drop of the former turns it
  to a clear red.    Paper stained with an infusion of turmeric,
  and reddened by an alkali, was immediately restored to its
   colour by a single immersion in the urine of children ; an
   effect which required some time in that of adults.       And
   that this should be the case we shall not be so much sur
   prised at, when we consider the nature of their diet ; and
   that, in addition to the phosphoric and uric, their urine
   contains the benzoic acid in considerable quantity, the pro
   portion of which is found afterwards progressively to di
   minish with their advancement in lifet
                                                             The

  898          On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.
    The constant opportunity I       have of attending to those
 subjects,    enables me  to say, that the urine of gravelly pa
 tients, when fresh rendered, nay, after standing many hours,
 in a temperature of sixty degrees, is relatively more acid
 than the healthy, sometimes as much so as the gouty ; and
 frequently continues so, even after depositing its gravelly
 matter.      An exception to this, however, sometimes occurs
 in gouty habits; their urine depositing copiously this acid
 substance, and yet manifesting no increased, but sometimes
 rather decreased, acescency ; for with them a considerable
 diminution of the quantity of the usually excreted super-
 acidulated phosphoric salt often takes place, as shall be
fully explained upon another occasion.
    Having premised these observations, it is now time to
consider what effects acid substances are productive of,
when mixed, out of the body, with this very complicated
liquor. And here, to prevent repetition, I will observe,
that that generally used was rendered fresh in the morning,
in the quantify of from three to four ounces, (unless other
wise specified,) being that most easily retained at one time
in the bladder. The quantity of acid extremely small, for
obvious reasons, and seldom increasing its acescent pro
perties (as ascertained by the usual tests) beyond what fre
quently occurs in the urine of those who use acescent drinks,
or are afflicted with gout or gravel. A standard quantity
was always laid by for comparison ; and the temperature
from sixty to seventy-five degrees, being in autumn 1799.
And to begin with the vegetable acids : —
                           Experiment    I.
    To four ounces of the urine of an adult was added one
drachm of common acetous acid, which, like every other
acid, caused no immediate change in it ; but in a very short
time, and before it cooled down to the temperature of the
atmosphere, some extremely minute shining spiculae, ob
servable only by a lens, were seen floating in it : these gra
dually increased in number and size, began to reflect the
light, and, from being perfectly transparent, soon became
coloured, to settle upon the usual cloud, or nubecula,
which now began to form, adhere to the sides of the glass,
and partly fall to the bottom in the shape of small bright
red crystals.     In the standard, after twetve hours, nothing
more observable than the usual nubecula ; nor was there any
sign of crystallization, or separation of uric acid, even after
twenty-four.
         -
            .                                       Experiment

            On Gravelly and Caladous Concretions.              299
                         Experiment   II.
   To   the same quantity of adult urine were added one
drachm and half of acetous acid, which caused a more
copious separation and crystallization       of this substance
with the foregoing appearances.        None observable in the
standard after twenty-four hours.
                        Experiment    III.
   To four ounces of urine of a healthy child, who never
was observed to pass gravel, and of the usual degree of
acidity, was added one drachm of acetous acid, which soon
caused an evident and copious separation of crystallized
uric acid. The crystals were, however, not quite so co
loured ; the urine of children not being so much impreg
nated with the uree, or colouring matter. No such appear
ance in the standard after twelve hours or more.
                         Experiment   IV.
    To four ounces of adult urine, rendered very soon after
a tea breakfast, and nearly in a state of urina potits, was
added one drachm of acetous acid.           After three hours, a
crystallization of minute sandy particles took place.       None
in the standard, even after three days.
                          Experiment   V.
    Thirty drops only, of acetous acid, were added to four
ounces of the urine of a gouty patient aet. sixty, and who
sometimes felt some slight gravelly tendency.         A very co
 pious precipitation of this matter quickly took place. Some
observable in the standard, also, the next day.
                         Experiment   VI.
    To three ounces of healthy adult urine were added a few-
 drops only of citric acid. A distinct crystallization, but
 extremely minute, took place. No appearance of any in
 the standard after many hours.        The experiment was re
 peated with one drachm of filtered citric acid, which only
 hastened the separation and increased the quantity of crys
 talline matter.
    Findingj by these experiments, and numberless others,
 with a detail of which it would be unnecessary to take up
 the time of the academy, that the acetous and citric acids,
 blended with the urine, separated its uric acid in a crystallized
 state, I thought it might be interesting to investigate what
 the effect of the tartarous acid might be, being that which,
 in an uncombined and partly combined state of acidulc, as
                                                                 in

  300       On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.
 in the acidulous tartaritc of potash, chiefly prevails in the
 -wines and beverage of those countries most subject to these
 complaints.
                          Experiment   VII.
    To four ounces of healthy adult urine were added* some
 drops only of pure tartarous acid. To the same quantity
 one drachm of acetous acid, which brought them nearly to
 the same standard of acidity ; a circumstance always at
 tended to in the comparative trials with different acids.     In
 that with the tartarous acid the crystals were not only larger
and darker coloured, but exceeded in quantity any thing
before observed.      In that with the acetous acid, a much
 smaller proportion of minute crystals took place.
                        Experiment    VIII.
    To four ounces of urine were added two drachms of a
filtered solution of acidulous tartarite of potash of the tem
 perature 55 degrees.      The usual separation and crystalliza
tion took place in large proportion : the crystals, however,
much smaller, and less coloured, tKan those with the un-
combined tartarous acid. The two last experiments, fre
quently repeated, presented the same results.
                          r.rperiment  IX.
    The result of the above experiments having led to some
doubt as to the good effects of the carbonic acid gas, so
much, at one time, recommended by doctors Percival and
Saunders, previous to its more modern alkaline combina
tion in our mephitic as well as super -aerated soda waters :
    Into the middle part ot Nooth-s apparatus were intro
duced four pounds ot fresh rendered healthy urine, and ex
posed to a stream of carbonic acid gas.        After a few hours
a copious and beautiful precipitation of uric crystals took
place, (notwithstanding the constant agitation from the
transmission of the gaseous bubbles,) larger than any I
before observed, that from the tartarous acid excepted.       In
a standard quantity, no distinct crystallization, even after
two days.     A repetition of the same experiment afforded
similar results.
                          Experiment X.
    Finding  the carbonic acid gas productive of similar ef
fects  with the  other acids hitherto examined, it was natural
to inquire   how   far its combination with the portion of al
kaline matter contained in our mephitic and soda waters,
so highly surcharged with it, may prevent a separation of
this uric acid.
                                                            Half

            On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.           301
    Half  an ounce only    of the common soda water of the
Bhops,   prepared by Mr.   Kinsley, was added to four ounces
of healthy urine.    A similar quantity was impregnated with
carbonic acid gas.     In the former, after forty-eight hours,
or more, no more than the usual nubecula ; nor could a
single crystal be discovered even by a magnifier.         Iu the
latter, an early, copious, and beautiful crystallization.     On
the result of this experiment, frequently repeated, with
various proportions of the meph^tic alkaline water, I shall
afterwards have occasion to make some remarks.
    Though the mineral acids, in an uncombined state, enter
not into the matter of our diet, and are no longer consi
dered as lithontriptics, since the notion of the earthy nature
of these concretions has been abandoned ; yet, as they are
sometimes prescribed with other indications, I thought fit
to extend my researches, though in a summary way, to
them also.
                        Experiment XI.
    To sixteen ounces  of urine were added eight drops of very
dilute sulphuric acid. To a similar quantity, two scruples
ef citric acid, to bring them to nearly the same standard of
acidity. After a very short interval, in that with citric acid,
the usual appearances of transparent floating molecular re
flecting light, and gradually becoming larger, were ob
served,   and began to adhere to the glass ; whilst in the
other,   after five hours, no such appearances took place.
Yet, after forty-eight, here also a precipitation took place
of smaller crystals, and less in quantity ; for, being col
lected on a filter, and carefully dried, they weighed only
two grains, whilst the former amounted to three.            And
this is nearly the largest proportion I ever found the above
quantity of healthy urine to contain.
                        Experiment  XII.
    As the nitrous acid is one of the most active solvents
of this matter, out of the body, I was curious to ascertain,
whether, in the very dilute state in which it must reach the
kidneys and bladder, (where its action must have been faci
litated by the actual state of solution of this substance,) it
would manifest its powers in preventing its separation.
    To three ounces. of urine, rendered a few hours after
breakfast, and, of course, scarcely acid, were added five
drops of weak nitrous acid, which did not seem to add
verv materially to its acescent properties.
    To a similar quantity were added four scruples of acetous
                                                            acid.

   302        On Gravelly and Cnlculous Concretions.
   acid. In less than an hour the former deposited a distinct
   quantity of gravelly matter in considerable proportion. This,
   perhaps, we should not be surprised at, when we consider
   now the action of this acid in that fluid may be determined
  by superior affinity.    In the latter the separation did not
  take place for a considerable time after.    We see, then, that
  the nitrous acid speedily and powerfully precipitates this
  acid substance.
                         Expeyment XIII.
      To six ounces of urine, showing     a strong acescent qua
  lity,  were  added  only   three drops of strong marine acid.
  A   cloudiness and transparent granular precipitation took
  place, followed by the formation of extremely minute gra
  velly concretions, which, even after two days standing, did
 pot assume so red a tinge as that with vegetable acids. This
 may probably depend upon some action of this acid upon
  the uruc, or colouring matter; but as to the simllness of
  the crystals, that evidently depends upon the more speedy
 precipitation^ throwing them down before they can assume
 their natural size, and leaving but a shade of difference be
 tween the crystalline and pulverulent deposits.
                        Experiment    XIV.
     From the above, then, we are satisfied that the vegetable
 and mineral acids cause a premature separation and crystal
 lization of the lithic contents of recent healthy urine ; but
 it may be observed that this only takes place under circum
 stances not at all applicable to the living system, viz. a
 much inferior temperature, and, in iome instances, a con
 tact with the atmospheric air; two powerful promoting
causes of crystallization in general, but more especially of
the less soluble salts.       To determine, therefore, this most
essential point :
     To six ounces of cold but recent urine (in a well closed
phial) were added five drops of very dilute nitrous acid,
which were placed on a sand bath : temperature varying
from 80 to about 100 degrees at most. The same quantity,
with similar precautions, but without addition, was laid
aside in the laboratory as a standard : temperature 56 de
grees.     After a very short interval indeed, and almost as
soon as the urine acquired the temperature of between 8O
and 90 degrees, small shining granular "particles were ob
servable with a magnifier, began gradually to settle upon a
broken kind of nubecula or rather nubecuue, and to acquire
colour and size, though carried up and down the liquor,
which was in constant agitation. This experiment again
                                                           twice

            On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.          303
twice latterly repeated, and always with the same result,
(care being taken to keep the temperature, as nearly as pos
sible, for a few hours, between 90 and 10© degrees,) af
forded one. of the most pleasing objects imaginable, viz.
the formation of this crystalline matter, under all the dis
advantages of elevated temperature and constant agitation,
from (I may almost say) their primordial moleculie to the
accomplishment of their full size.      And here, indeed, they
are most beautiful, and not to be distinguished from those
spontaneously deposited.
    The whole experiment strikes us strongly with a sem
blance of what probably passes, under similar circum
stances, in nature ; and reminds us of the danger attendant
upon acid impregnations, more particularlv at bed-time,
when the urine, by many hours retention and quiet, has
ample time to deposit its uric acid contents in the Madder.
From it also we learn, that the temperature of the human
body, in place of retarding or preventing (as might be ex
pected a priori) these pernicious effects, rather promotes
them, and that to a considerable degree.
    But whilst we endeavoured to establish this point, from
practical observation as well as experiment, we seem to
have entirely forgot that the urine itself is an acid liquor,
and that therefore, if acids were so prejudicial, it is not pro
bable that the provident wisdom of nature would commit
the discharge of this necessary excretion to a fluid, which,
by prematurely separating it within the body, would com
pletelv defeat the object of her humane attention.          And
would she not, in the infinity of her resources, dispose of
it by some less objectionable emunctory ?
    I would, in the first place, observe, that though healthy
urine manifests the properties of an acid liquor, it is in the
very smallest possible degree ; so much so, that though
mentioned long since by Moraung, Coldevillars, and other
 surgeons, yet it was not, either chemically or medically,
acknowledged to be so, until the time of Scheele, who
 finally established this point, as well as the nature of the
prevailing acid. And, secondly, that nothing can be more
erroneous than the opinion, which so long prevailed, that
the phosphoric acid existed in it in a naked or uncombined
state.    It is now well established that it is only in that of
a weak acidule, or acidulous phosphate of lime, very little
short, indeed, of the point of saturation ; and hence the
weakness of its action as an acid liquor : for were it not for
 itmus, and some of the more delicate of the vegetable
blues, we should have been, even to this day, ignorant of
                                                             this

 304         On Gravelly and Calculates Concretion<!.
 this property; so very feeble, indeed, that it will often not
 affect an infusion of red cabbage, whilst it turns with lit
 mus, and sometimes, but feebly, with this most delicate of
 all acid tests.  A single drop of phosphoric acid was added
 to one ounce of distilled water.   Of this weak acid impreg
nation one drop was sufficient to turn the infusion of litmus
of as clear a red as the mineral acids do; whilst seven of
urine manifested but very weak effects of acidity, and re-
          some time to show any.       If the urine, therefore,
  oes not exceed its natural standard of acidity, we have no
3uired
 thing to apprehend. And here, indeed, we must again ad
mire the wonderful wisdom of Providence.           The occasion
 (may I be allowed to say so, and that, too, before so com
 petent an assembly?) required some chemical discrimina
tion. It was necessary to carefully provide for the expul
sion of the recrementitious part of the osseous fabric, which
is very considerable, out ot the system ; but as this salt is
insoluble in an aqueous vehicle, such as the urine, nothing
more would be necessary to obviate this difficulty than a
certain degree of super-saturation, or state of acidule, which
would more effectually provide tor its solubility and its eli
mination.      But by going thus far, whilst it attended to one
excretion only, it would have entirely forsaken its charge
of another, committed also to this fluid ; and by this degree
of super-saturation, precipitate, retain in the system the
uric acid, and occasion as frequent an occurrence of gra
velly and calculous complaints, amongst mankind in gene
ral, as now occurs among the gouty. It therefore prudently
formed that degree only of acidulous phosphate of lime,
which, though insoluble out of the body, was sufficiently
soluble when assisted by its temperature. Nay, even for
-wise purposes, it has given a degree of latitude to this tem
perature, which, though narrow and confined indeed, is
sufficient for its purposes; but where it precisely terminates
I am not at present prepared to say, though so easily de
termined.
    Let us now, for a moment, consider how far any morbid
deviation from this healthy standard (which sometimes
happens) may throw light on this subject.       The most con
siderable, that I am acquainted with, occurs in the instance
of gouty urine rendered towards the decline of the parox
ysm.     A single drop of this, though in a turbid state, af
fects  the vegetable blues with an energy equal, or perhaps
superior, to that of the strongest acetous acid ; and requires
a very considerable increased proportion of lime water to
decompose it. for obvious reasons.       This we find always
                                                     depositing,

            On Gravelly and Calculous                Canadians.           305
depositing, sometimes from the bladder itself, but gene
rally before it has entirely parted with its natural tempera
ture, a very large proportion of a reddish brickdust.hkc
sediment (a welcome harbinger to gouty patients), gradu
ally declining, and keeping pace with the alleviation of
symptoms, and the progressive return of the urine to its
natural degree of acidity.    This sediment, Schcele, Berg
man, and Fourcroy, consider of the uric acid kind: and so
it (but in part only) undoubtedly is, being in a smaller pro
portion than thev were aware of.     For, considering that the
enormous quantity, rendered in a few days, was incompati
ble with the known minute proportion of this acid matter
in urine, I was determined to make the following experi
ment : — To a considerable quantity of                 it,
                                               desiccated and
well edulcorated with distilled water, were added three
ounces of aweak alkaline lixivium     which, after   few hours   a
digestion, completelv discoloured            it, ;
                                        acquired golden yel  a
low colour,   a sweetish taste, and, on the addition of    few       a
drops of dilute marine acid, precipitated    copious  sediment
                                                      a
of whitish, minute, needle-shaped crystals, of       silky apa
pearance.
   To this precipitate, well edulcorated, was added,     de          by
grees, about  one  ounce  of weak  nitrous acid, which acted
on it  with effervescence, and nearly took up the whole.
This solution, being set to evaporate, began to redden the
 fingers, and other animal matters; no doubt, therefore,
could subsist as to its nature. To the remainder, which
 seemed very little diminished, and only deprived of colour,
were added two ounces of dilute marine acid, which, after
 some time    in digestion, nearly dissolved the whole and           ;
finding this acid solution precipitate with lime water, oxalate
of ammonia, and fixed alkali,          must have been phosphate
of lime. This forms, then,           by it
                                       far the largest proportion
of the gouty sediment, which             coloured by the precipi
                                         is
tated uric acid.   Such also    is  the result of Crookshank's
experiments; and so we should expect to find             as   shall
                                                             it,     I
endeavour to point out, on    a   future occasion.
    Let us now consider how far these analytical results may
be confirmed in the synthetic way, having resolved that
experiment, as far as applicable, should form the basis of
any opinions offered   in  this essay.    The phosphoric, being
the native acid, prevalent in urine,        was interesting to de
                                               it
termine, whether,     by the artificial super-addition of       so.  it,
as to bring this fluid to the.standard of the gouty, we might
not produce effects somewhat analogous to what occnr
tjiere.
    Vol. 23. No. 92. Jan. 1806.              V           Eighteen

308         On Grarelly and Calculous Concretions.
    Eighteen ounces of urine- were divided into three equal
parts. To the first were added five drops of sulphuric aeid ;
to the second, ten; and to the third, fifteen.      In the first-
the magnifier very soon discovered minute floating mole-
culae, gradually assuming the crystalline form, &c. as so
often Wore described.       In the second, the same appear
ances, but more immediately and copiously produced.          But
in the third, so considerable as to excite my astonishment.
For here, besides the same extremely minute crystals which
adhered to the entire sides of the phial, the bottom appeared
covered with a mixture of crystalline and red pulverulent
matter ; the latter in great proportion, and probably pre
vented from crystallization by its hasty deposition.      Here,
then, that increased proportion of calcareous phosphate and
animal gelatinous matters, (which always takes place in
gout, and could not be expected here,) would seem only
wanting to form a sort of synthetic approximation to the
gouty sediment.
     The unusual proportion of deposited uric acid in this
 experiment created some suspicion that the phosphoric acid
might, by a combination wiih some of the principles of
 this very compound fluid, give rise to some artificial forma
 tion of it on this occasion.
     To the filtered liquor, therefore, of No. 3, were again
 superadded five drops, which in twenty-four hours caused
 a further separation of a very few crystals only. It was
 filtered a third time, and eight drops more added ; but-
 without the smallest appearance of a single crystal after
 four days.    The additional acid, then, only more effectually
 and speedily determined the separation ot the quantity na
 turally contained in urine ; its more divided pulverulent ap
 pearance adding considerably to its volume.
     It now only remained to demonstrate the identity of these
 various precipitates with the naturally deposited matter of
 gravel.    For, though it could not be well mistaken for any
  other saline composition in urine; yet, as external charac
 ters are, even in the hands of a Rovn£ de Lisle, or an abbe
  Haiiy, fallacious, the following, and concluding one, on
  the subject of acids was instituted.
                        E-rpcrintent  XV.
      To two drachms of this artificial gravelly matter  was gra
  dually  added  one ounce   of nitrous acid,  which  acted on it
  with effervescence, and dissolved the whole, with the -ex
  ception of son.ie small, floating, succulent, animal particles,
  so well described by Bergman.
                                                             The

             On Grmelly a;id Calculous Concretions,           307
    The evaporated solution reddened the sk»n, and, after
 some time, deposited crystals of oxalic acid ; as happens
in all concentrated nitrous solutions of calculi of the uric
acid   kind.    To another small quantity       was added some
pure alkaline    lixivium, which    very soon took it up, became
coloured, sweetish, and deposited the usual silky crystal
line sediment upon the addition of acetous acid. No doubt,
therefore, could remain, as to its identity with that natu
rally deposited.
    And here, though irrelevant to my present object, and
merely with a view to excite the attention of the faculty,
may 1 be permitted to ask, how it happens, that in the
very worst kinds of typhus fever there is very little dimi
nution of the secretion or excretion of the acidulous phos-
phate-of lime? as appears by the acidity of the urine, lime
water, and the quantum of precipitate afforded by ihe oxalic
acid ; whilst a very considerable one of the uric acid takes
place, and continues so until nearly the termination of the
disease, when it begins gradually again to manifest itself;
first, by the usual tests only, but presently, upon the crisis
taking place, in such quantity as to become insoluble ; and-
therefore quickly precipitates (with some additional mixture
of calcareous phosphate and animal mucilaginous matter)
under the form of our critical sediment or deposit ? or, are
we not here again to admire the wise ceconomy of the Au
 thor of pature, which, by keeping up the considerable and
necessary bony excretion of the system, prevents the dan
gerous accumulation of it which must ensue from its re
 tention during the long protracted period of many fevers?
I   might here offer some conjectures in explanation, but
will reserve them for another place.
    Having already trespassed so much upon the indulgence
of the academy, I shall here content myself with briefly
 stating, that, from the above experiments and observations,
 we may presume to say acids ot every kind are prejudicial.,
 and give rise to the formation of gravelly and calculous af
 fections, by causing a separation and crystallization of the
 lithic acid contents of the urine within the body ; not pre
 tending, however, to deny the existence of other causes in
 herent in the system itself, occasionally productive of si
 milar  effects, as has been already observed.
    I shall now proceed to the second part of this inquiry;
 namely, how far, or in what manner, alkaline matters are
 conducivq to the alleviation of these complaints.
                          [To be continued.]
                               U   2                LV1I. Letter

                               [    308     ]
LVII.    Letter from      John Pollock, Esq. of Mountains-
     town, Navan, to the Reverend Dr. Lvster, respecting a
     Surgical Operation performed on a Heifer*.
_.     DEAR SIR,
jLerhaps      the following communication may be thought
worth promulgating by the society.
    I have bred some very fine heifers of the long-horned
Leicestershire breed.     One of them lately was seized with
a complaint in the throat, attended with a difficulty of
breathing, and an apparent difficulty in swallowing ; both
which symptoms increased, notwithstanding the applica
tions and exertions of all the experienced herds and people
near me who had the reputation of skill in curing those
disorders to which cows are liable : in a few days the heifer
refused to take any food, and, being considered as incura
ble, she was killed.     I had her throat opened, and found
that an excrescence of flesh, or polypus, had grown some
what below the root of the tongue, to the size and nearly
of the shape of a kidney, save that it had plainly a neck or
root from which it grew, and that this polypus had nearly
covered both the throat and windpipe of the animal;
and further, that the excrescence was in a general state of
                 I lamented a good deal the loss of the beifer;
  ut in a few days after I was much concerned to observe
Eutrefaction.
that another of my stock, of the same breed and age, (now
rising four years old,) discovered exactly the same sym
ptoms, and progressively grew worse, being scarcely able
to breathe, and refusing all kind of food.       I had heard of
a surgical operation in cutting out a polypus from the hu
man nose: I at length determined to try the experiment
pn my heifer: for that purpose I threw the animal down
by ropes ; and having tied her legs, and got sufficient as
sistance to keep ilow n her head, I opened, under the inser
tion of the jaw-bone, a passage by the side of the wind
pipe completely into her throat (taking great care to avoid
the great veins and arteries in the side of the neck) suffi
ciently large to admit a man's hand.         I then made my
steward put his hand into the wound and take hold of the
polypus, and pull it with somc force out of the wound, so
that the neck of it was visible.    I then cut off the polypus,
sewed up the wound, leaving however a seton in              and        it,
untied the heifer    :for the remainder of the day she refused
           *
               From Transactions   tf the Duilin   Socieiy, voL iii.
                                                                         both

                    Machine            for   laying Land level.                       309
both food and drink : the next morning I had her turned
for a few hours to grass, which she began to eat ; and from
the inclination of her head and neck whilst eating, a most
considerable discharge of suppurated matter came from her
nostrils.   She, however, daily recovered : the suppuration
from her nostrils soon disappeared ; but the discharge from
the wound in the neck continued in a considerable degree,
by reason of the seton I had put into    and which    furtherit,              I
                  in by
encouraged      the application of warm stupings twice   day.                     a
The animal,      the course of one week from the time of the
operation, recovered perfectly, and    now as well as ever
                                                         is
she was.      am,
              I    dear sir,
                       Your most obedient servant,
                                                                        John Pollock.
Rev.   Dr. Lyster, &c. &c.
LVIII.     Description                of   Mr. David Charles's Machine
for    laying Land level.                  By Lieutenant- Colonel Hardv *.
       S1R'
t?
S-jverv new invention that        lessens the expense of manual
labour must become an object to your society               therefore      ;I
beg   leave .to inclose the  plan  of  an instrument   for  levelling
ground, used              by
                      me this last season.      Its application                        is
 simple, and its success so evident, that two neighbouring
 farmers borrowed               it,
                         and used      in the same manner.
    Should the society consider                 it it
                                        worth adopting, and that
 the sketch accompanying this letter         not sufficiently clear,
                                                         is
I  shall with great pleasure send       model to their repository.
                                                  a
                            have the honour to be
                                  I
                               Your most obedient servant,
Westmead Langhorne, Carmar.                       JOSEPH HARDY.
    tlienshire, Jan.      5,   1803.
Mr.    Charles Taylor.
  This simple machine, which       the invention of my  is
steward, and of which    have seen nothing similar, ap
                                        I
pears to me necessary, even in the most fertile parts of
England, where the new system of drill husbandry has
been introduced, or even where there    any attention to           is
   * From Transactions
                       of the Society of Arts, &c. vol. xxi. The silver medal
of the society was voted to Mr. Charles for this invention and the thanks ;
of the society were given to lieutenant.colonel Hardy for his communica
tion, and for model of the machine.
              a
                                     U          3                        the

3 10              Machine    for laying Land            level.
the waste of time, or        to the       ease     of cattle     in the act   of
ploughing, in order to       get rid     of crooked or unequal ridges
without either a summer fallow by cross ploughing, or else
bv frequent repetitions of ploughin<; in the winter and
spring, which the humidity of our climate will not allow
in every kind of soil.
   I reduced fourteen acres of land last spring to a perfect
level, where the crowns of the ridges were above two feet
higher than the furrows, and where they were crooked and
of unequal breadths.        Six acres of this is now under tur
nips,   a  crop   that  gives sufficient time to ameliorate the
nnder strata of soil that had perhaps never before been ex
posed to the influence of the sun and air ; and by the adop
tion of the Northumberland mode of sowing that root on
dunged drills, it is almost immaterial where the upper stra
tum    is, provided the seed vegetates, as          soon strikes into
                                                        it
the manure, and rapidly flourishes.
   My chief success, however, has been upon                    field of
                                                                   a
eight acres, which lay       in   the unprofitable state already de
scribed.     This land, which        is   deep clay, and which had
                                          a
produced     a crop of wheat from an old lay sod the former
year without any manure, was winter ploughed, and lay in
that state until the leveller was introduced the first dry
weather in April.      It   was preceded         two horse ploughs,
                                                   by
taking    perhaps a   square  of   an  acre at once    these loosened
                                                          :
the Soil the depth or common furrow, and twice the breadth
                       a
across the ridges.        The leveller followed, drawn              twoby
oxen and two horses, with             man at each handle, to press
it down where the height          is ato be removed, and to lift up
the body     by the handles where        it  to be discharged. Thus
                                              is
four men, one driver, and eight head of cattle, will more
effectually level from half an acre to three roods in one day,
according as the earth      is light or heavy, than sixty or eighty
Mien would accomplish with barrows and shovels, &c.,
even with the assistance of          a   plough.   In sandy ground,
where the depth of one furrow will bring all to              level, as
                                                                   a
much will of course be done               in one day as two ploughs
can cover    ; but my ground required to be gone over several
times. After this field was levelled, the backs of the ridges,
as they are termed, which Were stripped of their vegetable
mould, were ploughed up, the furrows not requiring it.
They were also harrowed, and the field copiously manured
with lime compost     ;    harrowed in, and broke into nine-feet
ridsres, perfectly straight, in order to introduce Duckit-s
drill. It  was sown under furrow, broad-cast, the last of           not it
until the 13th of May, and was cut down               reasonable crop
                                                         a
                                                                    the

                         Machine       for laying Land level.                             811
the 4th of Septemher.                  I am now thrashing           it,   and   a   sample
shall be sent, as well                 as   a   return of the eight acres,          if ne
cessary.
   The field now lies in proper form, well manured, with
the advantage of   fair crop from heavy tenacious ground,
                                  a
without losing   season, and in
                             a      year    no means     a      by                        fa
vourable.
 I   am well aware there are many shallow soils where                                      it
may be hazardous to remove the enriched surface, and trust
perhaps one-half of your land for     crop that had never be
                                                         a
fore been exposed to the atmosphere; but where the soil                                    is
sufficiently deep, or you have good under strata, and there
is manure at hand to correct what      sour from want of ex
                                                         is
posure and tillage,-      evident from this experiment that
                                  it   is
no risk     run.
               is
   To avoid the expense of fallow, and to lay out ground in
                                             a
straight and even ridges, even where drill husbandry      not                        is
practised, should be objects to every rational farmer. But
where the new system      intended to be adopted,
                                       is            becomes               it
indispensably necessary.     In laying down lawns, parks,
&c., where furrows are an eyesore, or places inaccessible
to wheel carriages from their declivity, and from which
earth    to be removed,
          is                will be found equally useful.
                                        it
   Should the society consider the inventor, David Charles,
worthy of any remuneration, honorary or otherwise,        will                      it
be gratefully acknowledged                       by
                              Your obedient servant,
  Westmrad,                                 JOSEPH HaRDV.
 Jail.   1,   I.SOLt.
Mr. Charles Taylor.
                             Description        of   the Machiwe.
    Fig. 1. (Plate IX.) A, part of the pole to which the oxen
6r horses which draw the machine are fastened, and which
is  attached to the machine           pin at B. by   a
    CC, The two wheels, shod with iron, which run upon
the axle D.
    EE, The upper frame-work of the machine, extending
 from the axle to the extremity of the handles FF, ana
secured firmly               by
                     the cross pieces.
    GG, The curved iron sliders of the machine, which
may be raised or depressed       little    means of the pins HH,
                                             a           by
which pass through holes in the wood -work, and also in
the iron sliders    these sliders form one piece with the back
                         ;
iron scraper     in the manner more fully explained in fig. 2.
                        I,
     K,  The wooden back of the machine, which should be
,                                            U   4                                   made

  31 S          On the Utility     ofPullic  Dispensaries.
  made strong, to resist the weight of the earth when col
  lected therein.       The iron scraper should be firmly secured
  to this by screws and       iron-work.
     LL,    The wooden       sides  of the machine firmly connected
  with   the back and frame- work,        in order to assist    in col
  lecting the earth to be removed.
     M, A     strong cross piece into which the ribs which sup*
  port  the  back   are well mortised.
     Fig,  2.  K,   The  interior part of the back of the machine.
     I, The iron scraper, "sharp at the bottom, and firmly
  screwed to the back of the machine.
     GG, Pans of the side irons or sliders, showing the mode
  in which they arc united with the scraper           I.
     M, The cross piece above described.
  LIX.    On the Utility of Public Dispensaries in general ;
     accompanied with a Report of the Cases in the Finslntry
     and City Dispensaries for the last three Months of the
     Year 1805.        Communicated by JOHN TAUNTON, Esq.
     Surgeon     to  the   City and Finslmry Dispensaries, and
     Lecturer on Anatomy, Surgery, &c.
                             To Mr. Tilkch.
 rp    SIR,
   L HERB is surely no institution more beneficial or impor
 tant than that which has for its object the alleviation or
 cure of disease.       Such institutions are the strong-holds of
 the diseased poor.        It is there they seek relief from all their
 maladies.       It is in the arrangements of dispensaries that
 their circumstances are peculiarly considered.
    To these institutions the poor of every denomination have
 a ready access, and their benefits are extended to every spe
 cies and degree     of disease.
    Are their ailments slight or trivial         ?   In the dispensary
 they find advice and medicine, while their families are not
 deprived of the earnings of their industry.              Are they laid
on beds of sickness, or confined by local disease or acci
dental injury ? There are they visited : the dispensary ex
tends its benefits to their habitations.             What plan more
philanthropic,       or  more    wisely  ordered   !  It is adapted to
the circumstances of every malady : it enters into the bosom
of every family : it restores the diseased to health, while
they enjoy the kind and affectionate offices of the health
ful : it extends the benign influence of the healing art to
every needy and diseased object.
                                                                   But

             On the Utility     of Public Dispensaries.
   But  these are not the only advantages attending such in
stitutions  ; they also present a wide field for obs«frvation
and experience to the practitioner.        Many cases of rare oc
currence come under his care, and he is enabled to collect
many useful and important facts.
   Thus, while dispensaries extend their salutary influence
to the diseased poor, they are subservient to the improve
ment of the healing art.
   Every communication respecting these institutions must
be interesting.     The manner in which they are supported ;
the mode in which they are conducted ; the aggregate in
which they remove or diminish human misery ; in which
they cure or alleviate disease, and restore the objects of
their care to their families, their friends, to the commu
nity, are all topics deeply interesting ; and not less so are
the histories of instructive cases, and the detail of im
portant facts.     It is proper that those who contribute to
the support of these institutions should know the benefits
derived from their philanthropy and munificence : it is
proper that others should know them, that they may be
induced to follow their example.            It is also proper that
the history of every instructive case should be faithfully
told.    The addition of one real fact to the general stock
of medical or surgical knowledge is a gem of inestimable
value.
    From these considerations I have resolved to publish the
surgical reports of the City and Finsbury Dispensaries, in
conducting which I shall observe the following plan :
    1st, I shall state the number of patients admitted under
my care, in a given time, at each of these institutions.
    2dly, I shall state the general events under the heads of
cured, relieved, &cc. And,
    3dly, I shall make a few general observations on some of
the more important cases, avoiding, as much as possible,
technical terms, or those of art, which could be understood
only by persons connected with medical science.
Surgical Patients admitted into tlie Finsbury Dispensary,
    St. John-s Square, from the 1st of October to the 31 st
    of December,    196.
           Cured            -          -              ill
                                                -2
           Relieved           -                         g
           Irregular          -         -       -       1
           Dead           -           »
           Under cur* December 31st             -      8O
                                                     706
                                                           Thirty-

.314          Oft the Utility of Public Dispensaries.
    Thirty-one have been home patients, and there have been
 seven operations; viz. one for an abscess in thetonsa) gland,
 one for a dislocation of the infra maxilla (or lower jaw),
 one for an abscess in the thigh, one for paracentesis (or tap
 ping for the dropsy), one for a tumour on the fore-head,
 and two for hernia (or ruptqre).
    Mrs. B., St. John-s-street, Clerkenwell, had been sub
ject to femoral hernia tor several years, which only came
down occasionally, was small, and never remained so long
as to require surgical aid till the present attack ; " though
the symptoms, as stated by herself, were violent pain in
the abdomen and in the part itself, nausea and vomiting,
the tumour receding during the debilitating effects of the
sickness."
    On Sunday, November 10th, during a violent fit of
coughing, the hernia came down, and could not be re
turned : the part became very painful, from which she
suffered much during the night, as well as from the hiccup
and almost constant sickness which succeeded.           On the
 llth, a medical practitioner was called in, whose attempts
to miner, the hernia were unsuccessful.        He therefore or
dered enemas, and gave some cathartic medicines combined
with opium. The enemas were immediately returned with
out producing any effect ; and every thing was rejected by
the stomach.       In the afternoon the symptoms had all in-< x
creased ; the pain extended over the fore part of the ab
domen, on which she could not Dear the least pressure.
A tobacco enema was then given, which produced syncope
without any favourable change to the hernia.         The opera-
tion was then proposed; to which she would by no means
consent.
    On the 12th she obtained a letter for the Finsbury Dis
pensary, which was brought to me about four o-clock in the
afternoon. On visiting her I made several fruitless attempts
to reduce the hernia, which was small but extremely pain-,
ful. On considering every circumstance, therefore, I con
cluded that the operation was the best mode of practice that
could be adopted.       In this opinion I was joined by Dr.
Lidderdale, one of the physicians to the dispensary. But
she still refused her consent : and some prlls were then or
dered, in which opium for/ned a principal ingredient. These
could not be retained on the stomach ; and the feculent
matter which was now vomited became so distressing, to
gether with the pain, that she consented to have the opera
tion performed ; which was done at ten o-clock at night.
    The sac in which the hernia was situated was unusually
                                                          thin,

              On tlie Utility
                              of Public Dispensaries*         319
thin,   and did not contain any fluid; so that the greatest
care was necessary to avoid wounding the intestine, which
was of a very dark colour. The pulse, which varied during
the day prior to the operation from 120 to 130, small and
thready, was immediately reduced to 86, and was soft and
regular.    She took some gentle laxative medicines.
    Nov. 13th.      Has been very easy during the night, but
has not had any discharge from the bowels.              I ordered
an enema, and a gentle dose of Epsom salts ; which pro
duced the desired effect : but she complained in the after
noon of being low, and thirsty.         Pulse 106.
    Nov. 14th. Has had a good night ; fever less; pulse 96;
but an extremely troublesome cough, for which some ex
pectorant medicines were prescribed.
    Nov. l.5th and 16th.      Continues to recover.
    Nov. 17th. Dressed the wound, which had not com
pletely adhered.
    Nov. iQth. Recovering fast ; appetite good; walks about
the chamber, from which she does not experience any in
 convenience. From this time the medicines were continued
according to circumstances.        She was now allowed animal
food; the wound healed gradually; and she returned thanks,
being perfectly cured, at the beginninsf of December.
    I have been induced to give the above particulars on ac
 count of the very quick recovery of the patient from one of
 the most formidable and frequently fatal operations of sur
 gery ; which I attribute principally to the time of operating,
 the delay of which I have no doubt has proved fatal to many,
 as the performance of an operation when the vital functions
 are nearly exhausted      can do little more than hurry on the
                              ...
                            ...
 fatal event.
 Surgical Patients admitted into the City Dispensary, from
      the 1st ofOctober to the 3lst of December last, 204.
            Cured                                   84
            Relieved                                  3
            Dead                                      2
            Under cure December        31     -    115
                                                   204
    Sixty-one of these patients have been visited at home,
 and ten have undergone operations ; two of which, for fis
 tula in ano, of several years standing, have been cured : one
 for an imperforated anus, v, hich was unsuccessful from the
 malformation which appeared in the internal canal on exa
                                                           mining

  316           On the Utility  of Putilie   Dispensaries.
  mining the body after death, where the colon terminated in
 a sac, and the rectum was wanting : two cases of cataract
  treated successfully by couching: one case of an extra
 thumb removed in a child only a few days old, which
 healed by the first intention : one case of a tumour that had
 been growing in the upper lip for four years ; it was dissected
 out by a single incision, which united readily, leaving no
 appearance of either the operation or disease ; the tumour,
 from its situation and size, had become extremely un
 sightly : one case of abscess in the hand, where the flexor
 tendons were laid bare, one of which was necessarily re
 moved : one case of a true stfirrhous tumour in the breast,
 which had been growing for several years, completely dis
 cussed by the application of the emp. hydrarg. cum am
 moniac., with the saponaceous and camphorated liniments.
     Mary Kain, Spitalfields, aged 45, observed a tumour in
 her right breast about seven years ago, from which she ex
 perienced no inconvenience, except occasional darting pain,
which did not return frequent, or continue long : it excited
very little attention till about May last, when from its size
and pain it occasioned much uneasiness,             and several pro
fessional gentlemen were consulted.           At this time the pain,
hardness, and irregularity of the tumour appear to have been
such as might have truly characterized the disease : how
ever, one of these gentlemen, considering it a common ab
scess, plunged his lancet into the tumour ; but, as will be
readily understood, no discharge of matter followed.           From
thif   time  it  ulcerated rapidly,  the   discharge  was  thin  and
offensive, ihe pain very great, and the constitution suffered
so much, that the patient appeared to be going with hasty-
strides " to that bourne from whence no traveller returns."
On the 7th of December she was admitted a patient in the
City Dispensary, when the ulcerated surface was nearly of
a circular figure of four inches in diameter.          She inquired
if any operation could be performed ; which she was willing
to undenjo, even at any hazard, rather than endure her pre»
sent sufferings.       The extent of the disease rendered the re
moval of the whole breast absolutely necessary; which was
done on the 9th of December, with little interruption : two
arteries only required to be secured till the operation was
completed.       The pain of the operation gradually left her,
so that she had a very comfortable night ; and has not from
that time experienced either fever or inconvenience in any
degree to what might have been expected from an operation
of so formidable a nature. No medicines were given, ex
cept a few doses of salts to keep the bowels regular, as she
            I                                                   was

        apparatus       for making     Gaseous  Oxide   of   Carbon. 3 17
was of      a costive habit.       The wound has been dressed about
every      fourth   day,    and  is   now nearly healed ; her general
health is good ; and she has been enabled to attend the do
mestic concerns of her family, without inconvenience, for
the last three weeks.
    The manner in which this case terminates will be noticed
in a subsequent report, as the success of an operation at so
late a period in this disease must always be doubtful, and
highly interesting.
    A cast has been taken of the disease, which is preserved
 in my anatomical museum.
     On this occasion I am extremely happy in having the
 opportunity of acknowledging the humane attention of
 Mrs.     F****,         who, on my representation, kindly visited
 and administered every necessary comfort to the poor fa
 mily while the parent was under confinement.
     The following Report is extracted from the Minutes of
 the Committee for managing the Affairs of the City Dis
 pensary, of January 1806.
  Surgical Patients admitted into this Institution from the
         1st of January to the 3 1st of December 1805, 917.
                Cured                                         674
                Relieved                                       73
                Dead                                           17
                Irregular                                       7
                Not known                                       2
                Under cure December' 3 1                      144
                                                              917
     364 have been         visited at home, and 73 have undergone
  operations.
  Greville.street, Hatton.garden,
                                                        John Taunton.
          January   15, 1806.
  ¦
 I.X.      Description of M. Baruel's new apparatus for
    making Gaseous Oxide of Carbon,                By M. Drveux*.
 Xt     is admitted on all hands, that for the progress that has
 been made in chemistry within the last thirty years, we are
  much indebted to the improvements that have been intro
  duced into the apparatus employed.                For example, before
  the apparatus       which Woulf invented for obtaining the aeri
  form     fluids   disengaged      from various bodies when exposed
  lo the action of fire, or presented to other agents susceptible
                      • From the Annates de Chimie, No. 157.
                                                                        of

 3 18   i4[iparalus for  making Gaseous Oxide   of Carbon.
 of uniting with them, chemists were obliged to employ
 large vessels difficult to be managed, and so inconvenient
 that it was even impossible to collect those fluids with cer
 tainty, the greater part of which were suffered to escape
 through the opening found necessary in practice to prevent
 a rupture of the vessels.
    At present, with the apparatus of Woulf, we experience
 nene of those inconveniences : the operations carried on
 during the disengagement of the gas can be made in ves
 sels of very small capacity ; we can divide the gases, and
determine their quantity and quality very precisely : in fine,
such an operation as was formerly very dangerous to the
conductor, can now be continued for hours without risk or
trouble.
    To these advantages many others have been added ; and
all the world knows that they are owing to that perfection
to which chemists have brought the apparatus of Woulf;
and, above all, to the happy application which has been
made of such apparatuses in a number of circumstances.
    But although discoveries of this kind have been carried
very far, it is probable that a great number more are yet in
reserve ; and much praise is due to those who make exer
tions for this important object, since the apparatuses which
they contrive are so many new means put into the hands of
 chemists to collect an infinity of products, which often
escape, and of which the knowledge might have an im
portant effect on the perfecting of chemical science.
    From such views, I have thought it \vould be useful to
announce an apparatus invented by M. Baruel, lecturer in
the School of Medicine in Paris. This young chemist, per
ceiving the difficulties and risks that are run in certain pro
cesses in which gases are liberated, or when it is necessary
to present them tor combination to different substances, has
endeavoured     to obviate the difficulties, and, after several
attempts, has produced an apparatus the utility of which
has far exceeded his hopes.
    I have seen this apparatus employed with great success
in the production of gaseous oxide of carbon.        This gas,
which before could only be obtained with difficulty, and
but in small quantities, may now be procured with great
facility and with little expense.
    The same apparatus may also be used for the preparation
fif sulphurized hydrogen gas, carbonized and phosphorized
bvdrogen gas ; and may be employed with equal advantage
for saturating substances with any gas, especially when the
saturation can only be made at a high temperature.
                                                         I shall

      Apparatus           for   making Gaseous Oxide                     of Carlon.       31ft
     I shall here give the description of the apparatus as com
municated by trie author, and exhibit a view and plan of                                    it,
which will make its parts more intelligible. (See Plate X.)
     If gaseous oxide of carbon              wished to be obtained, let
                                                     is
there oe first introduced into three gun barrels, B, C, and D,
charcoal, very dry and well chosen, broken into small pieces.
By means of thin piece of iron bring the bits of charcoal,
                      a
but without compressing them, to that part of the pun bar
rels which        to be exposed to the action of the fire.
                 is                                                    Place
the barrels horizontally              the furnace A, one
                                          in                       the side    by
of the other, leaving between each distance of about two   a
inches  ;    secure them in their places with clay, and then put
on the dome of the furnace.                This being done, into one
end of the barrel           insert the glass tube E, which
                               B                                           so         is
curved as to allow its other end to be introduced into the
neck of the bottle             F,
                              which must be large enough to admit
also the pipe of the curved funnel G.                 In the other end of
 the barrel      B   inserted one extremity of the bent tube H,
                     is
 the other end of which tube                   fixed into the barrel D,
                                                      is
 making      a communication        between     D and B. In the same
 manner, the barrel D            joined
                                    is     to  the   barrel         another
                                                                          CC    by
 glass    tube   I; and   lastly,  the    other   end   of     receives   the
 lube K, properly bent to pass under the receiver M, placed
 on the shelf of the pneumatic trough L.
      Things being thus disposed, put carbonate of lime mixed
 with water into the bottle F; lute with care all the joinings
 of the tubes, and put fire into the furnace. When the gun
 barrels have acquired red heat, pour sulphuric acid into the
                                   a
  funnel G, which, when               passes into the bottle
                                          it                         will       F,         li
  berate a    quantity   of  carbomc      acid   gas  from   the  carbonate
  of lime. The gas              obliged to pass through the tube
                                   is                                                        E
                          B,         the tube H
  and the barrel
                                        by by
                          and                             conveyed  isto the
  barrel D, and thence              the tube       into the barrel C, and
                                                           I
  through the tube            into the receiver M. The intention
                                K
  of the process        to make the carbonic acid gas pass through
                          is
  among the pieces of. ignited charcoal contained in the gun
  barrels, ana thus to saturate itself with as much carbon as
 it   can take up.
       It easy to conceive that this
        is                                              more sure and ex
                                                           is   a
  peditious method than that before employed,                     which the  in
  gas was made to pass only through                    single barrel.
                                                                a                         It   is
   true the gas was submitted                 second, and even
                                                     a                   third        a
   iirrie, to the same operation but this was always attended
                                                 ;
   with a   waste of time and          loss of gas, which does not take
                                            a
   place when this apparatus             employed.
                                                is
                                                                                  LXI. Ad-

                                  [  320      ]
  LXI.     Additional Experiments and Remarks on an artificial
     Substance which possesses the         principal characteristic Pro-
     pec-ties of Tannin.          By CHARLES HATCHETT, Esq,
     F.R.S.*
                                     §1-
  WHEN I had ascertained that carbonaceous substances,
 whether vegetable, animal, or mineral, were capable of
 being converted into a product, which, by its effects on
 earthy and metallic .solutions, on dissolved gelatine, and on
 skin, resembled the natural vegetable principle called tan."
 rim, I was at first inclined to give it the name of artificial
 or factitious ta;inin; but some eminent chemists of this
 country, for whose opinions I have the highest respect,
 considered this name as objectionable; for, although the
 artificial substance resembles tannin in the particulars above
 Stated, yet in one character there appears to be a very con
 siderable difference, namely, the effect of nitric acid ; for
 by this the artificial substance is produced, whilst the va
 rieties of natural tannin are destroyed. Such an objection,
sanctioned by such authority, induced me to alter the title
of my paper, and to expunge the word tannin wherever it
had been applied to the artificial product.
    In order to satisfy myself more fully on this point,                I
have, since the commumcation of my former paper, made
a few experiments on the comparative effects produced by
nitric acid on those substances which contain the most no
table quantities of tannin ; and of these I shall now give a
succinct account, and shall also cursorily notice other ex
periments in which a tanning substance has been produced,
under circumstances different, in some measure, from those
which have been already described.
                                    §11.
    Although      I cannot  as yet assert    that the artificial tanning
product is absolutely indestructible when repeatedly di
stilled with different portions of nitric acid, yet the follow
ing experiments will prove that the destructibility of it by
this method must at least be a work of considerable time
and difficulty.
    1. Twenty grains of this substance were dissolved in half
an ounce of strong nitric acid, the specific gravity of which
was l-40.        The solution was then subjected to distillation
            •
              From the Transaction, of the Royal Society for 1805.
                                                                    until

          Snbstance possessing the Properties    of Tannin.      321
until  the whole of the acid had come over ; after which it
was poured back upon the residuum, and the distillation
was thus repeated three times.
   Care was taken not to over-heat the residuum, and this,
when examined, did not appear to have suffered alteration
in any of its properties.
   2. Ten grains of the artificial tanning substance, mixed
with ten grains of white sugar, were dissolved in half an
ounce of nitric acid, and the whole was distilled to dry
ness.
   The residuum, being then dissolved in boiling distilled
water, and examined by solution of gelatine and other re
agents, was found to be unchanged in every respect.
    3. This resembled the former, only that gum arabic
was employed in the place of sugar.           The result was the
same.
   4.  A     quantity of dissolved isinglass was precipitated by
a solution     of the artificial tanning substance, and the pre
cipitate, having been well washed with hot distilled water,
was afterwards gradually dried.         It was then digested in
strong    nitric  acid,  which  after some  time acted powerfully
upon    it j  much   nitrous gas  was evolved,  and a dark brown
solution was formed.           This was evaporated to dryness,
and, after having been completely dissolved in boiling di
stilled water, was examined by nitrate of lime, acetite of
lead, muriate of tin, and solution of isinglass, all of which
formed copious precipitates, similar in every respect to those
produced by the artificial tanning substance, which had not
been subjected to the above described process.
    5. A     portion of the precipitate, formed by isinglass and
the tanmng substance, was dissolved in pure muriatic acid,
and was afterwards evaporated to dryness. Boiling distilled
Water dissolved only a small part, and the solution, which
was of a dark beer colour, did not precipitate gelatine, al
though it acted upon muriate of tin and sulphate of iron ;
for with the former it produced an ash-coloured precipitate,
and with the latter a slight deposit of a reddish brown co
lour.
    6. As so small a part of the precipitated isinglass had
been thus rendered soluble in boiling water, the residuum
was treated with nitric acid, as in Experiment 4 ; after
which, being evaporated to dryness, it was found to be
completely soluble in water, and precipitated gelatine as
copiously as at first.
    7. I dissolved twenty grains of the pure tanning sub
stance in about half an ounce of muriatic acid ; but, after
    Vol. 23. No. 92. Jaw. 1906.          X              distillation

322          Experiments and Remarks on a Substance
distillation    to dryness, the residuum in every respect ap*
peared    to  be  unchanged.
    In addition to the above experiments may be added, that
the solutions of the artificial tanning substance seem to be
completely imputrescihle,       neither do they ever    become
mouldy, like the infusion-s    of galls, sumach, catechu, 8tc.
    Having thus ascertained the very unchangeable nature of
this substance, I made the following comparative experi
ments on galls, sumach, Pegu cutch, kascutti, common
cutch, and oak bark.
    8. Twenty grains of powdered galls were dissolved in
half an ounce of the strong nitric acid ; the solution was
then evaporated to dryness, and the residuum dissolved in
boiling water. This did not produce the smallest effect on
dissolved gelatine.
    9. A strong infusion of galls, evaporated to dryness, and
treated as above, was totally deprived of the tanning property.
    10. Isinglass precipitated by the infusion of galls was
dissolved in nitric acid, and examined as in Experiment 4 ;
but no trace of tannin could be discovered.
    1 1 . Twenty grains of sumach were dissolved in half an
ounce of the strong nitric acid, and treated as in Experi
ment 8 ; after which it appeared that the tannin was de
stroyed.
     12. Twenty grains of Pegu cutch (which contains a con
 siderable quantity of mucilage) were subjected to a similar
process, by which much oxalic acid was obtained, but every
vestige of tannin was obliterated.
     13. /Twenty grains of the catechu called kascutti afforded
results similar to the above.
    14. Twenty grains of the common cutch or catechu,
bting dissolved in nitric acid, evaporated to dryness, dis
 solved in water, and examined by solution of isinglass,
 rendered the latter turbid : a tenacious film was deposited,
which was insoluble in boiling water, and was evidently
composed of gelatine and tannin.
     15. Twenty grains of prepared oak bark, by- the like
treatment, afforded a solution in water, which still acted
in some measure upon gelatine, as it caused a solution of
isinglass to become slightly- turbid ; and a film, completely
insoluble in boiling water, was, as in Experiment 14, de
posited on the sides and bottom of the vessel.
    16. Infusions were orepared, as nearly as possible of
 equal strength, from galls, sumach, shavings of oak wood,
oak bark, and the artificial tanning substance : half an
ounce, in measure, of each was then put into separate
                                                        glasses,

                 possessing   the Properties   of Tannin.         38J
glasses, and one drachm,          in measure, of the strong nitric
acid was added.
     The different infusions were then examined by solution
of isinglass,   and I found that those of galls, sumach, and
 oak wood, were not rendered turbid, whilst the contrary
 happened to the infusions of oak bark, and of the artificial
 substance ; for these continued to precipitate gelatine, until
 four drachms, or half an ounce, of the nitric acid had been
 added to each half ounce of the infusion.
    When the results of these experiments are compared,,
 they seem to establish, that although the artificial pro
 duct is by much the most indestructible of all the tan
 ning substances, yet there is some difference in this re
 spect even between the varieties of natural tannin ; and
 that common catechu, and the tannin of oak hark, resist
 the effects of nitric acid much longer than galls, sumach,
 kascutti, and Pegu cutch.      The last, as I have observed,
 is replete with mucilage, and by nitric acid yields a large
 quantity of oxalic acid ; it also appears to be the most de
 structible of all the varieties of catechu ; and on this ac
 count I attempted, although without success, to promote
 the destruction of the properties of the artificial substance
by adding gum arabic in one case, and sugar in another, to
different portions, previous to exposing it to the action of
nitric acid. I am, however, convinced that the presence of
gum or mucilage in natural substances which contain tan
nin, lenders this more speedily destructible by nitric acid ;
and I shall soon have occasion to notice some experiments
which tend to prove that the presence of gum or mucilage
in certain bodies, also prevents, or impedes more or less,
the formation of the artificial tanning substance.         The
cause of this difference, I am inclined to suspect,         is,
                                                           that
in  those bodies the gum or mucilage        not simply mixed,
                                               is
but     present in
       is            state of chemical combination,
                     a                               by which
certain modifications produced        the action of nitric acid
                                         by
upon the elementary principles of the original substance
become facilitated.
                                 §111.
    A. When     sulphuric acid     was added   to   solution of the
                                                     a
artificial tanning substance,       the latter became turbid, and
a copious brown precipitate        subsided, which was soluble    in
boiling distilled water, and        then was capable of precipi
tating gelatine.
    B. The      same effect was produced        bymuriatic acid so
                                                              ;
that   in   these particulars the artificial tanning substance was
                                 X   2                       found

324           Experiments and Remarks on a Substance
found io resemble precisely the tannin of galls and of other
natural substances*.
    C. Carbonate of potash, when added to a solution of the
artificial tanning substance, deepens the-colour ; after which
the solution becomes turbid ana deposits a brown magma.
    D. Five grains of the dry substance were dissolved in
half an ounce of strong ammonia ; the whole was then eva
porated to dryncss, and, being dissolved in water, was found
not to precipitate gelatine, unless a small portion of muriatic
acid was previously added.
    E. Another portion of the same substance, which had
been dissolved in ammonia, was evaporated in along-necked
 matrass, and was kept in very hot sand during half an hour/
 at first some ammonia arose, and afterwards a yellow liquorc
 which had the odour of burned horn. The residuum was
 then examined, and was found to be nearly insoluble in
 water, to which it only communicated a slight yellow
 tinge.
     F. It is remarkable that the dry artificial tanning sub
 stance, although prepared from vegetable matter, should,
 when placed on a hot iron, emit an odour very analogous
 to burned animal substances, such as horn, feathers, See. ;
 this I found also to be the case in the experiment which has
 been related, and I was desirous, therefore, to ascertain more
 accurately the effects of heat on this substance when di
 stilled in close vessels.
      I took some very pure vegetable charcoal which had been
  exposed to a red heat in a retort for more than an hour,
  and by nitric acid converted it into the artificial tanning
 substance.
      Twenty grains of this, rendered as dry as possible, were
  put into a small glass retort, to which a proper apparatus,
  terminating in a        Jar
                          filled with quicksilver, and inverted in
 a   mercurial trough, was adapted.         The retort was placed in
 a   small furnace, and was gradually heated         by  charcoal fire
                                                          a
  until the bulb became red hot.
      When the retort became warm, and after the expulsion
  of the atmospheric air,       a very small portion of water arose,
  which settled like dew on the sides of the vessels this          :
  was succeeded      by  little nitric acid, from which the tan
                          a
   ning   substance  had   not been completely freed        and soon
                                                              ;
   after  ayellowish liquor    came    over, which   was  in  so very
   small  a quantity  as only   to  stain the upper part  of the neck
      Mr. Davy on the Constituent
      •
                                    Parts of Astringent   Vegetables.   Phil.
 Trans. 1803, p. 240, 241.
                                                                          of

                possessing  the Properties     of Tannin.               325
 of the retort : as nothing more seemed to be produced, I
 then raised the fire, when suddenly the vessels were filled
 with a white cloud, and so great a portion of gas was al
 most explosively produced, as to overset the jar: this gas,
 by its odour, appeared to be ammonia, which in the first
 instance had formed the white cloud, by combining with
 the vapour of the nitric acid, with \^hich the vessels were
 previously filled *. Another jar was speedily placed in the
 room of that which had been overturned, and a quantity of
gas was slowly collected : this proved to be carbonic acid,
excepting a very small part, which was not taken up by so
lution of caustic potash, and which, as far as the smallness
of the quantity would permit to be determined, appeared
to be nitrogen gas.        There remained in the retort a very
bulky coal,     %vhich  weighed eight grains and a half: this, by
incineration, yielded one grain and a half of brownish white
ashes, which consisted principally of lime ; but whether
 any alkali was also present I cannot positively assert, as
the trace which I thought I discovered of it was very slight.
    I shall for the present postpone any remarks upon this
experiment, as I wish to proceed in the account of others
which have been made on the artificial tanning substance.
    G. Fifty grains of this substance were dissolved in four
ounces of water, and were afterwards precipitated by dis
solved isinglass, eighty-one grains of which became thus
 combined with forty-six grains of the tanning substance.
    The remaining portion of the latter was not precipitated,
and was therefore separated by a filter, and evaporated to
dryness.      It then appeared in the state of a light brittle
substance of a pale cinnamon brown colour ; and it is very
singular, that although charcoal is an inodorous body, and
although the artificial tanning substance, when properly
prepared, is likewise devoid or smell, (unless a certain pun
gent sensation which may be perceived upon first opening
a bottle containing the powder after agitation should be so
termed, but which seems rather to be a mechanical effect,)
yet this substance possessed a strong odour not very unlike
prepared oak bark ; and this odour became much more per
ceptible when the substance was put into water ; in which
it immediately dissolved. The solution was extremely bit
ter, and acted but slightly on dissolved isinglass, with
which, however, it formed some flocculi ; with sulphate of
iron it produced a brown precipitate j with muriate of tin,
   • After the experiment the receiver was found to be thinly coated with a
white saline crust.
                                   X   3                              one

328            Phenomena,
                                 afforded   ly Ammal Matters
one which was blackish brown ; nitrate of lime had not
any effect, but acetite of lead occasioned a very copious
precipitate of a pale brown colour.                  This substance, there
fore, appeared to be a portion of the tanning matter so mo
dified as partly to possess the characters of extract *.
     Other experiments were made on the tanning substance
 prepared from various bodies, which by the dry and by the
 humid way had been previously reduced to the state of coal:
but these I shall here omit, and shall pass to the descrip
 tion of a series of experiments, by which I obtained a va
 riety of the artificial tanning substance in a way different
 from that which has been related, and with which I was
 unacquainted when my former paper was written.
                                  [To be continued.]
LXII.       Extract from a Memoir ly Messrs. FOURCROY and
     VAUQUELIN upon the Phtenomena and the Products which
     Animal Matters -afford when treated with Nitric Acid.
     Read at the National Institute^.
  JL HE discovery of azote in animal substances, by the la
 bours of M. Berthollet, and the disengagement of this prin
 ciple during the application of the nitric acid to these sub
 stances, is one of the most beautiful improvements in mo
 dern chemistry.
     Messrs. Fourcroy and Vauquelin, by repeating these ex
 periments on muscular flesh, have added to this valuable
 fact others of a very interesting nature.
     We shall proceed to give a concise account of their ex
 periments, and of the results which they have yielded.
     I. A mixture of 150 grammes of muscular flesh, with
 an equal quantity of nitric acid of 32 degrees strength, and
 of water, wben introduced into a matrass and heated to
 gentle ebullition, gave out 96 inches of gas, which was
 tound to consist of nine-tenths azote and one-tenth car
bonic acid.
    The residuum consisted of the remains of the flesh, stfll
retaining, in part, its fibrous appearance ; of a yellow liquor;
and of a layer of yellow fatty matter on the surface of the
liquor. Having separated this matter and filtered the li-
   * When added to       a solution of carbonate of ammonia it produced some
effervescence,   but its peculiar vegetable odour did not suffer any diminu
tion.
   f  From the Annales de Cl iimit, No. 1C6.
                                                                       quid.

                        when treated     with Nitric Acid.                              327
 o:iitl, they submitted the fibrous residue to the following
 trials :
    Boiling water was rendered yellow by                         it,
                                                        and acquired
 at the same time the property of converting vegetable blues
 to red even the last portions of water assumed
    a         ;                                                  yellow        a
 colour, although they no longer showed the presence of any
 acid.     The residuum, after washing, acquired still deeper          a
 colour, and when mixed with little water reddened again
                                             a
 the paper of turnsole.
    When dissolved in alkalies            had     deep blood red co
                                                  it        a
 lour:    acids, on the other band; precipitated          in the form it
 of yellow flakes.
    This matter         greasy and pitchy to the touch
                           is                                    smells    ;   it
like rancid fat, and has very acrid taste.
                                     a
    The fusion and swelling which           undergoes when placed
                                                   it
over burning coals, the fumes of grease and the fcetid odgur
which    it  emits during this process, and the small portion
 of charcoal which leaves, render akin to fatty matters,
                                it                     it
although in fact          appears to be acid.
                            it
     II. A more minute examination of this yellow substance
 has shown        to possess the following properties
                   it                                                  :
    [t  neutralizes the alkalies so as to alter their qualities                         al
 most entirely       its combinations with potash and ammonia
                       :
 froth like       solution of soap
                   a                   they are not decomposed
                                          :                                              by
 the carbonic acid         and they precipitate the solutions of
                                ;
 mercury and lead in yellowish white flakes.
    The yellow substance decomposes the alkaline carbonates
with effervescence even in the cold, and the solution of
acetate of potash with the assistance of gentle heat.       a
    On the application of alcohol, to which the celebrated
authors of the memoir had next recourse, the substance in
question        found to consist of
                  is                       small quantity of greasy
                                                   a
matter which the alcohol takes up, and of an acid, to which
on account of its colour they have given the name of the
yellnw acid. When deprived of the grease which alters its
 properties, the yellow acid assumes          deeper colour
                                                       a            red        :   it
 dens    in   greater degree turnsole paper
              a                                      no longer melts
                                                            ;   it
in the same manner, and exhales not the odour of burnt
 grease, but fcetid and ammoniacal vapours.
    The yellow acid dissolves in grease, and renders              at the       it
-came time acrid and rancid.             combines with ammonia,
                                             It
which     it deprives of its odour        yields,
                                             ;    it             by
                                                      distillation, all
the products of animal substances              therefore consists of
                                                       ;
azote, hydrogen, carbon, and oxygen; and ought to be
 ranked among the animal acids.
.   III. The yellow matter, composed of the yellow acid
                                         X   -i                      and

328         Phenomena afforded       ly minimal Mailers
and grease, when subjected anew to the action of nitric
acid at the temperature of about 50°, underwent no very
remarkable change.         Its yellow colour was converted to a
whitish ; its specific gravity and volume were diminished,
but without any motion or effervescence in the acid ; it red-
dcned blues very strongly j it dissolved, as before, in a so
lution of potash, to which it communicated an orange red
colour ; and its taste was extremely acrid.         The action of
the nitric acid upon the yellow substance extends no further
than reducing it nearly to the state of an oil, and does not
destroy the acid properties which were originally commu-
 nicated   to  it.
     IV. The nitric    acid which had been employed in the de
 composition of the muscular flesh was next examined. Its
 yellow colour resembled much the colour of a solution of
 chromate of potash. During the supersaturation of the li
 quor with carbonate of potash it first assumed an orange
 colour, then became muddy, and let fall a small quantity
 of an orange red powder. When this mixture was sub
 jected to distillation it gave over a clear liquor, without co
 lour, of a rancid greasy smell, and containing a small por
 tion of ammonia, probably formed by the action of the
 nitric acid. What remained in the retort had assumed a
  dark brown colour ; but it was neglected to be examined.
      Another portion of nitric acid which had been employed
 in the same way yielded on distillation a colourless liquor,
  having the same taste and odour.        The liquid remaining in
  the retort assumed a deeper yellow when concentrated, and
  its re-action on the nitric acid became speedily apparent by
  the copious disengagement of red vapours ; when reduced
  to forty grammes it crystallized in flattened needles, in the
  midst of a mother water which was thick and tenacious
  like a solution of gum.
      The mother water was of an acid and bitter taste, assumed
  a blood red colour on the addition of a small quantity of pure
  potash, and when mixed with alcohol let fall a white floccu-
  lent matter which formed into fine semi-transparent grains,
  having an agreeably acid taste.        Five decigrammes of this
  salt left after calcination twenty-one centigrammes of a yel
  lowish residuum, which was very light, and dissolved with
  effervescence in nitric acid : the solution yielded on evapo
  ration needles of sulphate of lime and nitrate of potash.
  This saline precipitate, thrown down by alcohol, was found
  to consist of a mixture of sulphate of lime and acidulous
  oxalate of potash.
      The mother water already treated with alcohol yielded,
                                                               on

                  uilien treated with Nitric Acid.           329
on the addition of lime water, a second precipitate, which
was found to be no other than the oxalate of lime.            By
gently evaporating the fluid which remained after these two
precipitations the liquor thickened into a viscid brown sy
rup, having a bitter taste somewhat similar to that of wal
nut rind : when mixed with a large quantity of alcohol a
Very abundant separation of a white matter took place, and
the whole was formed into a coagulum.           This matter con
sisted of very pure malate of lime, and the alcohol contain
ing in solution the yellow bitter substance.
     The learned authors of the memoir from which we give
a detailed extract, infer from the facts above stated, 1 . That
muscles contain potash, lime, and sulphuric acid, or rather
sulphur which has been oxygenated by the action of the
nitric acid : 2. That a portion of the muscular fibre, or
rather of the cellular substance in which it is enveloped,
becomes converted by the nitric acid into malic and oxalic
 acid.
     The alcohol employed to effect the separation of the ma-
 late of lime held in solution, 1. a small quantity of nitrate
 of lime; 2. a reddish brown matter, having a very bitter
 taste, with a flavour like that of walnut, of which we shall
 speak hereafter ; 3. a small portion of the detonating sub
 stance which has been found in indigo : it was obtained in
 this instance by the concentration of the alcoholic solution,
 and separated in the form of granulated crystals, which
 were highly inflammable, and detonating, upon the addition
  of carbonate of potash.
      V. A little consideration of this analysis will readily
  convince us of the importance of the inferences which it
  affords, more especially when we compare the information
  hitherto possessed upon this subject with the more extended
  ideas which it opens upon a point so interesting in its con
  sequences and in its application to the animal ceconomy :
  indeed we may almost venture to assert, that there is now
  little left to be desired upon the subject.
      The disengagement of azote, and the formation of car
  bonic acid, of fat, of oxalic acid, and of a bitter matter,
  were all the facts formerly known regarding the action of
  nitric acid upon animal substances : to these our authors
   have added the discovery, 1 . of a yellow and almost in
   sipid matter, which, although acid, dissolves with diffi
   culty, and which immediately replaces the fleshy fibre;
   Q. of another yellow substance,      bitter to the taste, more
   soluble, and equally acid, which remains dissolved in the      .
   nitric liquor ; 3. of an inflammable -detonating substance
                                                            which

  33O         Phenomena afforded       ly Animal Malten
  which    also remains in    solution; 4. of the formation of the
  malic acid.
      It appears,   and it is the opinion of Messrs. Fourcrov and
 Vauquelin,       that the yellow and little soluble mailer is the
  first degree  of change which the muscular fibre undergoes;
 it passes immediately into a second stage of alteration and
  acidity, and the yellow soluble matter is produced : this,
 by a third change, is replaced by the inflammable and deto
 nating substance forming the third and last step in the
 decomposing action of the nitric acid. They attribute the
 successive formation of these three compounds to the sub
 traction of a portion of the azote, and of a larger quantity
 of the hydrogen of the muscular flesh : in this way the re
 lative proportions of their elements are altered, and there
 remains an excess of carbon and oxygen, which communi
 cates those characters of fat and acidity which we remark.
The proportion of the principles constituting these three
 compounds is a question of such difficulty that we cannot
 expect it will soon be resolved.
     They are convinced that the acidity of the yellow sub
stances depends in no degree upon the presence of nitric
acid, as they have failed in every attempt to detect it.
     The oxalic and malic acids, they conceive, are formed
from the white and mucous layers of cellular substance ;
and the opinion is confirmed by comparative experiments
on the white and membranous parts of the body, which
show that these yield, on the application of the nitric acid,
a large quantity of the malic and oxalic, but very little fat
or yellow matter.
     VI. Some insulated facts, which have hitherto appeared
susceptible of no useful application, seern naturally to con
nect themselves with those presented by the analysis before
us ; and the learned chemists to whom we owe it have very
happily pointed out the connection.           Such are the facts
which were offered by the examination of the biliary con
cretions of some animals, more especially those found in
the gall bladder of the ox : such also are the resemblances
which serve to show the connection between the bile and the
colour of the skin and urine in cases of icterus (jaundice),
and the yellow substances which are mentioned in this me
moir.
     Further experiments, instituted with a view to verify their
suspicions, were attended with the most favourable results.
The red matter of biliary concretions, when separated by
alcohol from the green bitter matter with which it is mixed,
presented the same characters which distinguished the first
             3                                             yellow

                when treated with  Nitric Acid.            331
yellow matter furnished by the action of nitric acid upon
muscular flesh.
    They obtained from the urine of a young man labouring
under slight jaundice, a red substance, having an almost
exact resemblance to the matter afforded by muscle and
nitric acid. It was procured by treating with alcohol a
quantity of urine which had been evaporated to the con
sistence of honey.       The alcohol contained the red matter
which they sought, besides a large quantity of urea, of sal-
ammoniac and of acetate of soda, which the patient had
been using internally.
    These experiments, executed with that admirable talent
and ingeninty which the celebrated authors of this memoir
manifest in all their inquiries, would induce us to conceive,
with them, that jaundice is produced by the superabundant
quantity of this matter, and its consequent introduction into
 the system of the cutaneous absorbents : that it is this sub
 stance which communicates a yellow colour to the bile and
 to the biliary calculi, which afford, on analysis, evidence of
 its presence : that this yellow acid is formed in the animal
 ceconomy either by the oxygenation of the muscular fibre,
 or of the fibrine of the blood.
     Does there not appear to be a decided similarity between
 this yellow acid matter and the acid which is found in fat
 that has been long exposed to the air, as well as in that
 which has acquired a yellow colour from disease, and in
 the fat treated with nitric acid so as to form oxygenated
 ointments ?
     Are we not forced to acknowledge that these ideas ac
  quire great additional probability from considering that the
  acetate of soda, the alkaline carbonates, the yolks of eggs,
  are at once the remedies which are most successful in the
 treatment of jaundice, and the best chemical solvents of the
  yellow acid, or of that fatty and acid matter which so evi
  dently is present in icterus?
     And lastly, Can we still remain in the opinion that the
  expectation of determining the proximate cause of diseases
 is founded on a mere chimera ; and that the discoveries of
 chemistry, or successful researches into animal substances,
  will fail to throw the most important light upon the nature
  of diseases, and the mode of their cure ?
                                                1X111.   4 Me-

                                     [    332         ]
LXIII. A   Memoir on the Means of rendering Smutty
  Wheat fit for Market.     Translated from the Biblio-
  tlwqw; Pkysico-Economique ly the Rev. JOHN DUBOUR-
   DIEU*.
 JL HIS memoir has two objects ; the first, to increase the
value of smutty wheat in the market ; the second, to pre
pare bread of a good quality from it-
   All wheat is called smutty when the chests of some of
the ears contain a black dust instead of a farinaceous sub
stance, which the flail breaks in the operation of threshing,
end which adhering to the sound grain spoils its colour,
and communicates a degree of blackness to the flour.
                   Disadvantages         of Smutty Wheat.
   The disadvantages are in proportion to the quantity of
diseased grain, and are as follow: —The infected grain never
sweats    f
          completely in the granary, and consequently it
cannot be preserved so long; for the black dust with which
it is  covered prevents the moisture from escaping in the
granary.     If it is sent to market, it is sold four francs
                                                  J
or a hundred sols by the setter cheaper than grain of the
same quality which is not diseased.        When it is taken to
the mill, even after having remained a considerable time in
the granary, it clogs the mill-stones, greases the bolting-
sieves, delays the grinding,      and gives less flour.      The
flour of good grain, ground after that which is smutty, is
contaminated oy the remains of the latter. The flour of
smutty grain is of a dirty white, soft and greasy to the
touch ; in baking, it proportionably absorbs but little water,
emits a smell like rancid grease, and is difficult to keep.
After this the author mentions the different modes that have
been tried to remedy this defect in grain, and which have
proved ineffectual : 1 st, that of sifting it often ; 2dly, dry
ing     it,
          and turning      in the granary; 3dly,
                                it                       mixing          by
an absorbent earth reduced to powder with              4thly, by  it ;
sprinkling    it with water, drying, and sifting it. He then
mentions washing the grain completely as the only method
of freeing    itfrom the effects of this disease, which those
farmers in France that were anxious to bring only grain of
the first quality to market have hit upon.
              • From Transaction               Dublin Society, vol. iii.
                                         of the
              f Resiue  th» word
                           is            Ihave translated meats.
              I    A   French measure    equal to twelve bushels.
                                                                              Mode

                               Memoir         on Smutty      lyheat.                           333
                          Mode of washing Smutty Grain.
  Water from wells, springs, or streams, may                                     be used    with
equal effect          :                       it,
                               proper vessels must be procured,
                          to employ
As buckets, shallow tubs, and casks open at one end            but                         ;
in preference to these,     large flat cistern with
                                              a        sluice, the               a
inside of which should be covered with         piece of linen, or     a
of tin perforated, to facilitate the escape of the water im
pregnated with the smutty matter, ana to prevent the pas
sage of the grain.    This operation       more easily performed
                                                             is
 when near the water: in that case the wheat may be washed
 in baskets so close as to retain the grain. The mere motion
 of the water      insufficient to detach the dust from the
                           is
 wheat      must be stirred with
            ;   it                      broom, and rubbed with
                                                         a
 the hands, in small quantities at          time the foul water
                                                             a              ;
 must be let out of the cistern, and fresh water put upon
  the wheat, until   runs off clear. If
                                it              washed at     river
                                                                  it   is                  a
  or well, the basket must be plunged in
   a                                                several times.          it
It    is,
        however, to be observed, that this operation must be
  performed as quickly as possible, that the grain may be
  washed without being softened, to prevent the difficulty in
  drying        it,
             and to avoid wrinkling the skin.
                                Drying             the washed     Grain.
     The moment the grain           taken out of the water,
                                                    is          ought                  it
 to be spread on cloths         the open air  inin the southern pro
                                                                  ;
 vinces, where           customary to wash grain,
                               it   is                       dried in            it   is
 the sun.       This method         preferable to any other, and at
                                                   is
 the same time the most ceconomical               and in our climate
                                                                   ;
  (France)       cogent
                    a   reason   for washing   smutty   grain imme
 diately after harvest,       to take advantage of the heat of the
                                          is
 sun in the latter end of August, or the beginning of Sep
  tember      besides, the sooner the grain
                :                                  washed, the more   is
  easy and effectual       the operation.
                                     is
      If the weather will not permit the grain to be dried in
  the open air,       must be spread very thin on the floor of the
                           it
  granary, and often turned to prevent its heating, and to
  allow       free escape to the adventitious moisture.
                a                                                  the                         If
  weather happens to be moist and warm, and likely to make
 it   sprout,      should be dried in an oven moderately heated.
                      it
   In whatsoever way the grain has been dried, care must be
   taken not to leave       in heaps, nor to press
                                         it              closely toge           it
   ther, until        perfectly cool, and has been passed two or
                          it   is
   three times through the riddle.
                                                                                                     Of

 f34                  Memoir    on Smutty Wheat.
       Of the     Advantages   of washing and drying Grain.
     These operations are not difficult; they only require
  time ; and the farmer who performs them will not have
  occasion to regret the moments thus employed when he
 reflects on the consequent advantages.         These advantages
 are, the power of preserving his grain, or of using it im
 mediately, or of mixing it with old grain, without any in
 convenience.      It restores to wheat Us natural facility in
 grinding ; it makes Ac produce in flour greater than when
 unwashed ; and the flour has not that dirty whiteness, and
 disagreeable   smell, attendant on smutty grain ; it is more
 easy to keep, and it absorbs more water in baking.         Bread
made from this wheat has all the qualities that can DC wished
 for in this aliment.     If the grain is to be sold, it acquires
at market a value of one-fourth above that which is smutty.
 But it may be objected, that by washing wheat it losea the
quality of handling well, and from this circumstance suffers
a diminution in value.        On this it must be remarked, that
if the operation is quickly executed, particularly if the grain
is dry, the skin will not be penetrated by the moisture ;
that it will not be wrinkled, and will preserve its size and
smoothness.      Its loss of weight will be small when com
pared with the advantages above stated.
    In all circumstances which have required               it,
                                                       this prac
tice has been followed with success both         by
                                                 great and small
farmers,     bymillers who deal in wheat, and oy private per
sons who manufacture their own flour.           It  the constant
                                                      is
mode pursued by the best bakers, who otherwise could not
make bread of the first quality in those seasons when smutty
wheat   is  common, and         such years has been the means
                               in
of enriching those active and intelligent persons who have
had recourse to it.
                           Reflections.
  After what      has been mentioned     in this memoir, the farmer
may be convinced that nothing but washing and drying can
remedy the disadvantages of smutty wheat.                   is,
                                                    then, his
                                                      It
interest to perform this operation,  because,  heif
                                                  does   not,     it
the miller or the baker will do     for him, and have all the
                                    it
advantage which he might obtain for himself.        Even for
bis own consumption he ought to practise          it,
                                                as both him
self and his family will eat better bread, which costs less in
baking :     in
              aword, he ought to employ this method, as
well tnr his own credit as for the sake of humanity, because
flour made from wheat thus prepared cannot be unwhole
                                                       some:

    Improvements in tlie Construction           of Steam-Engines.         335
some     ; and    thus the farmer will be free from all uneasiness
on this subject, and from every well founded reproach.
                     Observation     ly  Ike Translator.
    The climate in France being so much warmer than ours,
is the reason the author mentions ovens for the purpose of
drying wheat : in close and moist weather, after washing,
the sun and air being in general sufficient to prepare wheat
for grinding, kilns are not in use as with us, where all
grain, unless kept a considerable time on the straw, requires
that process to make it work; nor will it keep in any con
siderable quantity unless kiln-dried, and even in that state
it requires constant turning : therefore to millers, who al
ways dry their wheat, and who of. course are near to water,
the operation of washing seems peculiarly adapted in sea
sons when the smut is common.
    The author does not seem to be acquainted with lashing
of wheat to free it from the straw : when this operation is
performed, the smut balls are not broken as they are by the
 flail, and consequently less of the black powder adheres to
 the grain ; and the balls, being lighter than the wheat, may
 be separated by repeated and careful winnowing,                     fiut the
 second quality, which is obtained by threshing, after lash
 ing, ana amongst which the smut balls are broken, ought
 certainly to be washed.
 LXIV.        Specification     of  the Patent granted to ARTHUR
     WOOLF, of Spa Fields, in               the County of Middlesex,
    for    certain Improvements in the Construction of Steam-
     Engines.       Dated June 7, 1804*.
  J. o all to whom these presents shall come, &c. Now know
 ye, that in compliance with the said proviso, I the said
  Arthur Woolf do hereby describe and ascertain the nature
 of my said invention, and the manner in which the same
 is to be performed, as follows : that is to say, I have ascer
  tained, by actual experiments, and have applied the same
 to practice, that as in practice it is found that steam acting
    • In our nineteenth volume, p. 133, we gave some account of the sub;ect
 of this patent ; and in our present volume, p. 123, we laid before our readers
 Mr. Woo If s specification of a subsequent patent for improvements on steam-
 engines, which may be considered as a supplemeut to the former. A number
 of our readers having, however, requested that an entire copy of Mr. Woolf s
 specification of hii 6rst patent might appear in our work, — in compliance
  wnli their with** we new insert it.
                                                                          with

 336               Patent for certain Improvements
with      the expansive force of four pounds the square inch,
against      asafety-valve exposed to the atmosphere, is ca
  pable of expanding itself to four times the volume it then
 occupies, and still to be equal to the pressure of the atmo
 sphere ; so in like manner steam of the force of five pounds
 the square inch can expand itself to five times its volume.
 Masses or quantities of steam of the like expansive force of
 six, seven, eight, nine, or ten pounds the square inch, can
 expand itself to six, seven, eight, nine, or ten times its vo
 lume, and still be respectively equal to the atmosphere, or
 capable of producing sufficient action against the piston of a
 steam-engine, to cause the same to rise in the old engine (with
 a counterpoise) of Newcomen, or to be carried into the va
 cuous part of the cylinder in the improved engines firstbrought
 into effect by Boulton and Watt : and this ratio is progres
 sive, and nearly, if not entirely, uniform; so that steam of the
 expansive force of twenty, thirty, forty, or fifty pounds the
 square inch of a common safety-valve, will expand itself to
 twenty, thirty, forty, or fifty times its volume; and, gene
 rally, as to all the intermediate or higher degrees of elastic
 force, the number of times which steam of any tempera
 ture and force can expand itself is nearly the same as the
 number of pounds it is able to sustain on a square inch,
 exposed to the common atmospheric pressure ; provided
 always, that the space, place or vessel, in which it is
 allowed to expand itself, be at least of as high a tempera
 ture, or nearly as high a temperature, as that of the steain
 before it be allowed room to expand : that      is, whatever be
 the tiegree of heat necessary to the permanency of steam of
 the force of twenty pounds the square inch,           ifsteam of
 that force be employed, the space, place, or vessel in which
it   isallowed or intended to expand itself, should be of the
 same temperature, or nearly so; and so with steam of
any other power, as of thirty, forty, or fifty pounds the
 square inch, the space, place, or vessel in which              to
                                                                it   is
 expand, should be at or about the same degree of heat as
Steam of the force employed requires for its existence; in
-which case, as   I  have before stated, steam can expand itself
about as many times as the number of pounds           could have
.sustained on    asquare inch as aforesaid, before
                                                   it it  allowed
                                                           is
to expand or dilate itself.       Here, however, it  may be ne
cessary to remark, that in stating this ratio  I   only speak of
the expansion of steam as can be managed and commanded
                            it
in practice, and not of the absolute expansion which per
haps might be obtained     . if  mechanism could be made so
perfect as to prevent all escape of steam, and all partial con
                                                       densation

               in the Construction           of Steam-Engihcs.                337
densation of it and waste of heat ; for the real expansive
force of steam, I am inclined to believe, from the experi
ments I have made, increases in a regular ratio a little be
yond what I have stated, though I would not recommend
that it should be calculated higher in applying it to steam-
engines, because the difficulty of confining and managing
it increases also as the elasticity of the steam is increased,
or as its temperature is increased.
    And here it may be of use to the public to state some
facts respecting different degrees of temperature required to
bring steam to, and maintain it at, different expansive forces
above the weight of the atmosphere ; because the tempera
ture of the steam indicated by a thermometer, having its
bulb in the boiler which produces         will indicate the ex
                                                     it,
pansive force of the steam, without the trouble and incon
venience of changing the weights on the valve,            which          by
its force    regulated for the work intended to be performed
              is
 by   it,and which valve acts as     common safety-valve, so
                                                 a
that those who attend the boiler will know with sufficient
precision,         by
                looking at the thermometer, how they ought
to feed the fire; and, moreover, the relation between the
 temperature and the expansive force being known, the dan
ger of accidents from the safety-valve becoming deranged
will be lessened, for the workman will naturally -be led to
notice whether the safety-valve acts freely when the ther
 mometer has risen to the degree that answers to the weight
with which the valve       loaded for working.
                                 is                  have found  T
 by  actual experiment, setting out from the boiling point,
 or two hundred and twelve degrees of the thermometer,
 commonly employed in this country, which          that of Fah  is
 renheit, at which degree steam of water      only equal to the
                                                           is
 pressure of the atmosphere, that, in order to give       an in          it
 creased elastic force equal to five pounds the square inch,
 the temperature must be raised fifteen or sixteen degrees,
 or to about two hundred and twenty-seven and half, when             a
 the steam will have acquired     power to expand itself to five
                                             a
 times its volume, and still be equal to the atmosphere, and
 capable of being applied as such in the working of steam-
 engines according to my said invention.       And with regard
 to various other pressures,     temperatures, and expansive
 forces of steam, the same are shown in the following table:
Vol.    23.   No.       92.   Jan.   1806.

338                Patent     for  certain Improvements
Table of the relative pressures per square inch, temperatures
    and expansibility of steam at degrees \>f heat above the
    boiling point of water, beginning with t\e temperature of
    steam of an elastic force equal to Jive pounds per square
    inch, and extending to steam alia to sustain forty pounds
    on tlie square inch. .
                Pounds pa-           Decrees                   pan-
               square Inch.          of Heat.              ibility.
                                                                -n
                                       230$                     6
    Steam   of an
                                       232|                     7   times its
    elastic force                             and at these
                        requires to    235|                     8   vclume.and
    predomi                                    respective
                        be main        2374                     9   continue
    nating over                               degrees of
                         tained by a   239t                   10 I equal in
    the pressure-^
    of the atmo-         tempera       250]  f heat, steam <(
                                               can expand
                                                              IS elasticity to
                         ture equal    259J                   20    the pressure!
    sphereupon                                 itself to
                         to about      267                    25    of the atmo
    a safety-                                  about
                    30                 273                    30    sphere.
    valve,
                                       278                    35
                   UOJ               L282 .                 L40.
    And so in like manner, by small additions of tempera
 ture, an expansive power may be given to steam to enable
it to expand to fifty, sixty, seventy, eighty, ninety, one
hundred, two hundred, three hundred, or more times its
volume, without any limitation but what is imposed by the
frangible nature of every material of which boilers or other
 parts of steam-engines have been or can be made ; and pru
dence dictates that the expansive force should never be car
 ried to the utmost the materials can bear, but rather be kept
considerably within that limit.
     Having thus fully explained my discovery of the expan
 sive power and force of steam, I shall proceed to describe
my improvements grounded thereon ; and ih. so doing, I
shall find it necessary to mention the entire steam-engine,
and its parts, to which, as an invention well known, I nei
ther can nor do assert any exclusive claim; but at the same
time I must here observe, that, from the nature of my said
discovery, and its application, there can be no difficulty in
distinguishing my said improvements from the improved
engine, as to its other common and well known component
parts.
     1st. If the engine be constructed originally with the in
tention of adopting my said improvements, it oueht to have
two steam-vessels of different dimensions, according to the
temperature or the expansive force determined to be com
municated to the steam made use of in working the en
gine; for the smaller steam-vessel, or cylinder, must be a
                                                                         measure

       .   ,   in   the Construction   of Steam-Engines.     339
measure      for the larger.    For example, if steam of forty
 pounds the square inch is fixed on, then the smaller steam-
 vessel should be at least one-fortieth part the contents of
 the larger one.      Each steam-vessel     should be furnished
 with a piston, and the smaller cylinder should have a com
 munication both at its top and bottom (top and bottom
 being here employed merely as relative terms, for the cy
 linders may be worked in a horizontal, or any other re
 quired position, as well as vertical).      The small cylinder,
 I say, should have a communication both at its top and
 bottom with the boiler which supplies the steam ; which
 communications, by means of cocks or valves of any con
 struction adapted to the use, are to be alternately opened
 and shut during the working of the engine.           The top of
 the small cylinder should have a communication with the
 bottom of the larger cylinder, and the bottom of the smaller
 one with the top of the larger, with proper means to open
 and shut these alternately by cocks, valves, or any other
 well known contrivance.        And both the top and bottom of
 the larger cylinder or steam-vessel should, while the engine
 is at work, communicate alternately with a condensing-ves-
 scl, into which a jet of water is admitted to hasten the con
 densation ; or the condensing-vessel may be cooled by any
other means calculated to produce that effect.            Things
being thus arranged, when the engine is at work, steam
 of high temperature is admitted from the boiler, to act by
 its elastic force on one side of the smaller piston, while the
 steam which had last moved it has a communication with
 the larger steam-vessel     or cylinder where it follows the
larger piston     now  moving towards that end of its cylinder
 which is open to the condensing-vessel.       Let both pistons
end their stroke at one time, and let us now suppose them-
 both at the top of their respective cylinders, ready to de
scend ; then the steam of forty pounds the square inch en
 tering above the smaller piston will carrv it downwards,
while the steam below        it,
                              instead of being allowed to escape
into the atmosphere, or applied to any other purpose, will
pass into the larger cylinder above its piston, which will
take its downward stroke at the same time that the piston
of the smaller cylinder      doing the same thing; and while
                             is
this goes on, the steam which last filled the larger cylinder
in the upward stroke of the engine will be passed into the
condenser, to be condensed during the downward stroke.
When the pistons in the smaller and larger cylinder have
thus been made to descend to the bottom of their respective
cylinders, then the steam from the boiler          to be shut off
                                                   is
                                   Y   2                    from

340              Patent   for  certain Improvements
from the top, and admitted to the bottom ofx the smaller
cylinder, and the communication between the bottom of
 the smaller and the top of the larger cylinder is also to be
 Cut off, and the communication to be opened between the
 top of the smaller and the bottom of the larger cylinder ;
 the steam, which in the downward stroke of the engine
 filled the larger cylinder, being now open to the condenser,
 and the communication between the bottom of the larger
 cylinder and the condenser shut off; and so alternately ad-
 iliitting the steam to the different sides of the smaller piston,
 while the steam last admitted into the smaller cylinder
 passes alternately to the different sides of the larger piston
 in the larger cylinder, the top and bottom 6f which are
 made to communicate alternately with the condenser.              In
 an engine working with the improvements which have been
just described, while the steam is admitted to one side of the
 piston in the smaller cylinder, the steam on the other side
 has room made for its admission into the larger cylinder on
 one side of its piston, by the condensation going on on the
 other side of the large piston which is open to the con
 denser ; and that waste of steam which takes place in en
 gines worked only by the expansive force of steam, from
 steam passing the piston, is prevented; for all steam that
 passes the piston in the smaller cylinder is received intd the
 larger.     In such an engine, where it may be more conve- -
 nient for any particular purpose, the arrangement may be
 altered, and the top of the smaller made to communicate
  with the top of the larger, and the bottom of the smaller
  with the bottom of the. larger cylinder; in which case the
 only difference will be, that when the piston in the smaller
 cylinder descends that in the lamer will ascend, and while
 the latter descends the former will ascend ; which for some
  particular purposes may be .more convenient than the ar
 rangement belorc described.
      i-diy. As thu difficulty of giving a proper degree of strength
  to large cylinders, and the casus for the same, which are to
  be exposed to the action of s;r,mg steam, increases in pro
  portion as their size i> augmented ; instead of employing,
  besides the smaller cylinder or steam measure, one cylinder
  only of large diameter in steam-engines of great power,           I
  sometimes prefer substituting for the latter cylinder two or
  more cylinders of smaller diameter, but of sueh dimensions
  that their capacity, and the area of the pistons worked in
  them, are equal to the area of the one piston, and the ca
  pacity of the one cylinder which otherwise would be ne
  cessary ; and such substituted cylinders are made to com
                                                           municate

               iff the Construction   of Stt&m- Engines.            84-1
municate with each other, that they may at one and the
same time receive and part with the steam by which the
engine is worked ; ana their respective piston rods are so
connected with one another, or with other parts of the
  machinery, that the pistons may act together.
     3dly, With regard to steam-engines which are already
  constructed, I improve the same by adding thereto a small
  cylinder or measure for the steam admitted to the working
  cylinder: this improvement may be introduced with great
 advantage into the steam-engines constructed according to
 Mr. Watt-s improvements; which small cylinder may be
 either employed only as a measure of the steam, or a piston
 may be worked in it by the expansive force of the steam,
 before it be allowed to pass into the present .working cy
 linder or steam-vessel, which in that case must have no
 direct communication with the boiler, but must be supplied
 with steam through ihe medium of the small added cylinder
 or steam measure.       To make this more intelligible, suppose
 the steam measure or small cylinder added to one of Mr.
 Watt-s single engines, or to one of similar construc
  tion, and that the small added cylinder is furnished with
 a piston to work by the expansive force of the {team,
 while the larger cylinder works by condensation ; then all
 that is necessary    is,that the tqp of the smaller added cy
 linder be connected with the boiler, and furnished with             a
 cock or valve to. shut off the steam, and that the boiler be of
 sufficient strength  : let  apipe pass from the top to the bot
 tom of the smaller added cylinder, furnished      ith
                                                   <      cock or
                                                            a
valve,  by  which    a communication may be made between
 the two sides of the piston in the said cylinder       let
                                                        ;      pipe
                                                                a
 also pass from the bottom of the smaller cylinder to the top
 of the larger; let the larger cylinder, as is now commonly
 the case in  practice, have     pipe passing from its top to its
                                 a
 bottom,     bywhich     acommunication can be made between
 the two sides of the piston in tht large cylinder          and let
                                                            ;
 the large cylinder communicate with         acondensing-vessel,
 with valves, coclcs, or any other contrivance to open or
 shut the different communications when necessary. Things
being thus arranged, suppose the engine at work, and the
pistons in both cylinders at the top of their respective cy
linders, and suppose the steam admitted to enter the small
cylinder above the piston    :  while the steam    isthus enter
ing, let the communication between the bottom of the
small cylinder and the top of the large one be open, while
the bottom of the large one      isopen to the condenser      then
                                                                ;
both pi&tons, will descend.       When they have reached the
                                 Y   3                    bottom

 3-12           Patent  Jar certain Improvements
 bottom of their respective cylinders, the communications
 between the boiler and the small cylinder, between the
  small cylinder and large cylinder, and between the latter and
  the condenser, must all be shut off; and the communica
 tions must be opened between the two sides of the smaller
 piston and between the two sides of the larger piston : then,
 as the pistons ascend, the steam which was last admitted
 above the small piston will pass to its under side, while the
 steam which was last admitted to the top of the large from
 the lower part of the small cylinder will pass into the lower
 part of the large cylinder unrfer its piston, and both pistons
 will at the same time ascend by the action of the pounter-
 weight, or the momentum of the fly, as the case may be.
 When both pistons have reached the top of their respective
 cylinders, the last-mentioned communications are shut, and
 the others are opened as before, and both will descend ; the
 steam which was last admitted to the under side of the small
 piston passing into the upper end of the large cylinder, while
 the steam last introduced below the piston of the large cy
 linder goes off to the condenser. Or an arrangement similar
 to the following may be adopted : Let only the bottom part
of the smaller cylinder have a communication with the
boiler, and let there be also a communication between the
bottom of the smaller and the top of the larger cylinder, and
another communication between the top part of both cy
linders, which last-mentioned communication always re
mains open ; and let the top and bottom of the large cy
linder also communicate by means of a side pipe ; and
let the bottom part of the large cylinder communicate with
a condenser.     Things being thus arranged, when steam is
admitting into the lower part of the smaller cylinder, the
piston in that cylinder will ascend ; the communication
between the top of the two cylinders being then open, to
allow the steam above the smaller piston to pass into the
top of the larger, where it is not to be detained, but, along
with the steam above the piston in the large cylinder, to be
allowed to pass under the last-mentioned piston (which is
now ascending as well as the piston in the smaller cylin
der), the communication between the two sides of the large
piston being now open, and the communication with the
condenser shut off. Both pistons having reached the top
of their respective cylinders, the communications which
before were open must now be shut (excepting the com
munication between the two cylinders at their upper part),
and the communications between the bottom of the small
and the top of the large, and between the bottom of the
                                                          large

             ill the Construction of Steam- Engines.      343
large and the condenser, must be opened : the stcnm last
admitted into the lower part of the smaller cylinder will
now ascend into the top of the larger and expand itself,
following the piston of the larger cylinder which is now
descending, its other side being open to the condenser;
and (as the tops of the two Cylinders communicate) steam
will also pass into the top of the smaller cylinder above its
piston, so that both pistons descend together to the bottom
of their respective cylinders ; when a fresh charge of steam
is again to be admitted for a fresh stroke of the engine.
    4thiy. If my improvements be applied to one of the en
gines known by the name of Watt-s double engine, the
working cylinder must have no direct communication with
the boiler, but must be made to communicate at its top
and bottom alterna'ely with the lower and upper part of
the smaller added cylinder, or simply, as the case may be,
at its top and bottom, with the steam measure, which has
a direct communication with the boiler ; the effect of which
must be sufficiently obvious from the details 1 have already
 given respecting the nature of my invention, and the way
 in which the same is to be carried into actual practice.
  "
    -tthly. With regard to steam-engines, in which the se
 parate steam measure may not be thought advisable, the
 same may be .improved by the application of my aforesaid
 discovery, by making the boiler, and the steam case or cases
 in which the working cylinder or cylinders is or are in
 closed, much stronger than usual ; and by altering the struc
 ture and dimensions of the cocks, valves, slides, or other
 means of admitting steam from the boiler into the cylinder
 or cylinders, iu such a manner as that the steam may be
 admitted very gradually by a progressive enlargement of the
 aperture, so as at first to wiredraw, and afterwards admit
 more freely the same.      The reason for this precaution is
 this : Steam of such great elastic force as I employ, if ad
 mitted suddenly into the cylinder or cylinders, when more
 than one working cylinder is employed, would strike with
 a force that would endanger the safety and durability of the
 engine. The aperture allowed to the valve, cock, or other
 contrivance for admitting steam into the cylinder or cylin
 ders, should be regulated by the following consideration : —
  If the intention is that the engine should work only, or al
 most wholly, by condensation, the steam in passing into
 the cylinder or cylinders should be forced to wiredraw itself,
 as I have already said, but so that the piston or pistons
 may perform the whole or a great part of the stroke by the
  unit- the intended quantity of steam has been admitted into
                                 Y4                         the

344             Patent  for certain Improvements
the cylinder or cylinders i for example, when steam of forty
pounds the square inch is used, such a quantity ot the same
as shall be equal in volume to one-fortieth of the capacity
of the cylinder or cylinders, and so in proportion when
steam of any other force is employed ; and \\ hen the re
quisite quantity has been admitted, the steam \s to be shut
off till the proper moment for admitting a fresh quantity.
But if it is intended that advantage shall also be taken of
the elastic force of the steam acting on one side of the piston
or pistons, while condensation goes on on the other side,
then the steam must be admitted more freely, but still with
caution at the first, for the reason already mentioned. And
in this, as well as in every other application of my said im
provements, grounded on my said discovery of the law of
expansibility of steam, due and effectual means must be
used to keep up the requisite temperature of all the parts of
the apparatus into which the steam is admitted, and in
which it is not intended to be condensed. And here it may
be proper to state, that, instead of the obvious and usual
means for accomplishing this, namely, inclosing them in
the boik-r, or in a steajn case or cases communicating with
the boiler, the following method may sometimes be nsed
with advantage, viz. a separate fire under the steam case
or cases, which, in that event, will become a boiler or
boilers, and must be furnished with a safety-valve or valves
to regulate the temperature. By means of the last-men
tioned arrangement, the steam from the smaller cylinder or
steam measure (when either of these is employed) may be
admitted into the larger cylinder or cylinders kept at a higher
temperature than the smaller, by which its power to expand
itself may he increased; and, on the contrary, by keeping
the larger at a lower temperature than the smaller, its ex
pansibility will be lessened; which, on particular occasions,
and for particular .purposes, may be desirable.        In every
case care must be taken that the boiler, the case or cases
in which the cylinder or cylinders is or are inclosed; the
Mcam pipes, and generally all the parts exposed to the ac
tion of the expansive force of the steam, be of a strength
proportioned to the high pressure to which they are to be
exposed.     With ngard to the due degrees of strength of
the parts of all my said improvements, together with the
nature of the materials, and the proportions of the same,
except as herein described, I forbear any further descrip
tion, on account of the numerous variations to which the
same must be subjected; and because every, engineer, of
sufficient >kili to be employed in works of, this nature, will,
           i                                            without

             in   tlie Construction of Steam-Engincs.         343
without difficulty, arrange and determine the same accord,-
ing to the nature of the case.
    Lastly. I have to observe, that, to avoid unnecessary
tautologies in speaking of the proportion that ought to
subsist between the smaller cylinder or the steam measure
and the larger cylinder, or the quantity of steam to be ad
mitted to the working cylinder, where a separate smaller
cylinder or steam measure is not adopted, though I have
mentioned the regular proportions, as, for example, of a
measure or quantity equal to one-fortieth of the working
cylinder when steam of forty pounds the square inch is to
be employed, or equal to one-thirtieth,        or one-twentieth,
when steam of thirty or twenty pounds the square inch is
to be used ; yet these are not the only proportions that may
be used ; for, though it may not be advisable that the pro
portion of the smaller cylinder or steam measure should in
any case be made much smaller than I have stated, yet, in
making it larger, considerable latitude may be allowed : for
 exampte, with steam of forty pounds the square inch, a
 smaller cylinder or measure of one-twentieth, or even larger,
 or of some intermediate proportion, may be employed in
 stead of one of a fortieth of the capacity of the larger or
 working cylinder ; and so with steam of any other given
strength.      And it may be advisable, that in a numfier of
 engines   this  should be the case, because of the difficulty of
 preventing     some    waste of steam or partial condensation
 which might lessen the rate of working, if not allowed for
 in the size of the smaller cylinder or steam measure; or. in
 the quantity of steam admitted directly from the boiler into
 the working cylinder, where no smaller cylinder or steam
measure is employed.: and in every case the engine, when
 got ready for work, whatever may be the proportion that
 has been adopted as intended to be worked with, should
 have iis power tried, by altering the load on the valve tha^
 ascertains the force of the steam, in order that the strength
 of steam best adapted for the engine may be ascertained ;
  for it may turn out to be advantageous that the steam
  should be employed, in particular engines of an elastic-
  force, somewhat over or under what was first intended.
     Jn witness whereof, &c.
                                                       LXV.    On

                                  [       346    ]
LXV.   On the Chemical Nature of Blighted Corn.   Exr
  traded from a Memoir read at the Institute 30tk Ven-
  demiaire, Year I2. By Messrs. FOURCROY and VAU-
  ftUEHN*.
  JL HE blight in core has already engaged the attention of
many chemists.        Parmentier found in it a fcetid greasy
substance mixed with charcoal ; Cornette has discovered
its oily nature ; and M. Girod-Chautrans         has announced,
in the year 12, the existence of an acid both free and com
bined, which he conceived to be of a peculiar nature.
    It is since this last discovery was announced to the In
stitute by its author, towards the end of the year 12, that
M. Vauquelin and I applied ourselves to examine with ac
curacy this diseased vegetable matter.
/   The blight, it is known, is, in fact, a disease of the grain
which presents under the husk of the seed, where the fa
rinaceous substance ought to be found, a black powder,
greasy and fcetid, distinguished by the dangerous quality
of infecting other grain by contact, and communicating to
it the property of growing up blighted. The most effectual
means of destroying the contagion, and preventing the dis
ease from re-appearing,               is,
                                  to wash the grain with lime
water, or an alkaline solution         without this precaution,
                                            :
which  is  now    ingeneral  use among all well-informed hus
 bandmen,    the disease     uniformly reproduced.
                             is
    The blighted grain on which our experiments were made
was furnished          M. Girod-Chautrans, whose zeal for
                       by
the advancement of science, and enlightened love of na
tural history, are well known.
    When pounded in mortar of flint, and separated from
                            a
its husk, the blight communicated to hot alcohol        greenish  a
yellow colour, but no acid property and there was sepa
                                                     ;
rateda   dark green oily matter ot the consistence of butter,
and acrid like rancid fat.     Ether, also, produced the sepa
ration of the same oil.
    The substance, after being thus acted on               by
                                                    the alcohol,
still preserved its greasy feel, and its peculiar odour of sea-
ware.     When washed with five times its weight of boiling
water, the water assumed         reddish brown colour,
                                      a                    icetia      a
odour, somewhat of          soapy quality, and
                            a                     decidedly acid
                                                         a
character. When examined                    by
                                       different appropriate re-
agentSj the acid was proved to be the phosphoric.
            From Arnialfs da Museum tTHistuiTC Naturdle,     No. 35.
       *
                                                                           By

          On the Chemical Nature     of Blighted Corn.      347
    By washing the pure blight with boiling distilled water,
without treating it with alcohol, the liquor became sensibly
acid, and when saturated with potash yielded a precipitate
of an animal matter mixed with phosphate of ammonia and
magnesia, at the same time exhibiting every mark of the
presence of an alkaline phosphate.       Thus have these expe
riments confirmed the opinion that phosphoric acid exists
uncombined in blight ;, for we have a sufficient proof of
this in its fixity, its insolubility in alcohol, its solubility
in water, and its precipitation by liine water, &c.
    The water held in solution, after the acid had been pre
cipitated by potash, a fuetid animal matter, altogether si
milar in its colour, odour, and in the phaenomena of its
precipitation by different re-agents, to that which is found
in water where the gluten of flour has been left to putrefy.
    After the successive action of the alcohol and water, the
blight of wheat still retained its fetid odour and greasy feel.
When distilled with a naked fire, it yielded one-third of its
weight of water containing acidulous acetate of ammonia;
 nearly one-third of a dark brown concrete oil, very similar
 to adipocere in its form, consistence, and easy fusibility ;
 also 0-23 of a charcoal, which left, by incineration, a white
 cinder weighing one-hundredth part of the original quan
 tity of blight, and consisting of three-fourths phosphate of
 magnesia and one-fourth phosphate of lime.
    We examined blight without removing the husk, and
 found that this had no influence in varying the ultimate re
 sult of the analysis.
     We would conclude, from the examination which we
 have just detailed, that the blight of wheat contains,
     1 . A green oil, having the consistence of butter, fcetid
 and acrid, soluble in heated alcohol and ether, forming
 nearly a third of the weight of the blight, and communi
 cating to it its greasy feel.
     2. A vegeto-animal matter soluble in water, insoluble in
 alcohol, and precipitating the greater number of the me
 tallic salts as well as nut-galls.  It forms rather less than a
 fourth part of the blight, and resembles completely the sub
 stance which is produced by the putrefaction of gluten.
     3. A charcoal, amounting to a fifth part, which gives a
 black colour to the whole mass, and is at once the proof
  and the effect of a putrefactive decomposition; as it is abo
  in garden mould, and indeed in the remains of all putrefied
  organic compounds.
     4. Phosphoric acid in a free suit;-, forming only 0-004 of
                                                             the

   349          On the Chemical Nature            of Blighted Corn.
  the blight,       but sufficing to give it the power of reddening
   Vegetable blues.
       5. Lastly, The phosphates of ammonia, of magnesia,
   and lime, in the small proportion of some thousand parts.
       Thus the blight of wheat is only a residuum of putrefied
   farina, which, instead of the constituent elements of this
   last, viz. starch, gluten, saccharine matter, contains only
   a kind of charred oily substance very similar to that species
  of bitumen which derives its origin from animal or vegeto-
  animal bodies.
       We would here call to mind, that properties very similar
  to those of the blight of wheat were presented to us during
  our examination of gluten decomposed by putrefaction, and
  tha.t the products oF the one approach so near to those of
  the other, as to render it difficult, in some cases, to avoid
  confounding them.              Indeed, it requires considerable expe
   rience in chemical operations to discover the slight differ
  ences existing between these two putrefied matters ; for they
"
  consist only in those slight shades which are caught with
  difficulty.
       However interesting the -results of this analysis may ap
  pear, we must admit that the knowledge which they afford
  regarding the nature of blight serves to throw but little light
  on its cause, or its contagious quality; whiph is now proved
  by so many experiments, that there can no longer remaiu
  the slightest d,oubt : we must also confess that these results,
  while they Show blight to consist of the residuum of putre
  fied farina, do not completely accord with the ideas of those
  philosophical agriculturists who regard this disease as the
  necessary effect of contagion ; for, agreeably to our analysis.,
  it would seem equally reasonable to consider it as the effect
  of putrefactive decomposition, which may arise from many
  other circumstances besides the influence of infection**.
       These results induce us also to think that the septic proT
  cess, which necessarily precedes the formation of Wight in
  every case, whether arising from contagions or occurring
  spontaneously, attacks in particular the gluten, and antici
  pates, nay, prevents the formation of starch ; for we well
  know that this matter, of which no traces are discoverably
  in blight, suffers no alteration from the putrefaction which
  attacks so violently the substance of gluten,
      • From sir
                  Ioseph Banks-s paper which we have laid before one readers,
  we have a right to consider blight as a vegetable fungus. If this be admitted,
  it is easy to conceive that, the organization of the grain being destroyed by
  the shoot in;r of the roots of the fungi, a slow decomposition of the seed must
  folkiw. — EiuT.
                                                                 LXVI. Es-

                              [  349     J
-LXVI. Experimental Inquiry           into the Proportion of the
     several  Gases  or Elastic Fluids constituting the Atmo
     sphere,    By JOHN DAI/TON*.
 J.N   a former paper which I submitted to this society, " on
 the constitution of mixed gases," I adopted such propor
 tions of the simple elastic fluids to constitute the atmosphere
 as were then current, not intending to warrant the accuracy
 of them all, as stated in the said paper : my principal ob
 ject in that essay was, to point out the manner in which
 mixed elastic fluids exist together, and to insist upon what
  I think a very important and fundamental position in the
  doctrine of such fluids ; —namely, that the elastic or repul
  sive power of each particle is confined to those of its owrt
  kind ; and consequently the force of such fluid, retained in
  a given vessel, or gravitating, is the same in a separate as
  in a mixed state, depending upon its proper density and
  temperature. This principle accords with all experience,
  and I have no doubt will soon be perceived and acknow
  ledged by chemists and philosophers in general ; and its
  application will elucidate a variety of tacts which are
  otherwise involved in obscurity.
      The objects of the present essay are,
      1. To determine the weight of each simple atmosphere,
   abstractedly ; or, in other words, what part of the weight
   of the whole compound atmosphere is due to azote, what
   to oxygen, &c. Sic.
      2. To determine the relative weights of the different
   gases in a given volume of atmospheric air, such, as it is
   at the earth-s surface.
      3. To investigate the proportions of the gases to each
   other, such as they ought to be found at different elevations
   above the earth-s surface.
      To those who consider the atmosphere as a chemical
   compound, these three objects are but one; others, who
    adopt my hypothesis, will see they; are essentially distinct.
    With fespect to the first : it is obvious, that, on my hypo
    thesis, the density and elastic force of each gas at the earth-s
    surface are the effects of the weight of the atmosphere of
    that gas solely, the different atmospheres not gravitating
    one upon another; whence the first object will be obtained
    by ascertaining what share of elastic force is due to each gas
    in a given volume of the compound atmosphere ; or, which
              • From Menchnter Transactions,
                                             second series, vol. i.
                        *                                   <       amounts

 350                         On the Proportion   of
 amounts to the same thing, by finding how much the given
 volume is diminished under a constant pressure, by the
 abstraction of each of its ingredients singly.    Thus, if it
 should appear that, by extracting the oxygenous gas from
 any mass of atmospheric air, the whole was diminished
 l-5th in bulk, still being subject to a pressure of 30 inches
of mercury ; then it ought to be inferred that the oxyge
nous atmosphere presses the earth with a force of 6 inches
 of mercury, &c.
    In order to ascertain the second point, it will be further
 necessary to obtain the specific gravity of each gas ; that        is,
the relative weights of     given volume of each in
                                  a                        purea
state, subject to the same pressure and temperature.       For,
the weight of each gas      any given portion of atmospheric
                                  in
air must be      the compound ratio of its force and specific
                in
gravity.
   With respect to the third object,         may be observed,
                                                 it
that those gases which are specifically the heaviest must
decrease in density the quickest in ascending. If the earth-s
atmosphere had been         homogeneous elastic fluid of the
                               a
same weight      it    \s,
                       but ten times the specific gravity,
                                                                   it it
might easily be demonstrated that no sensible portion of
could have arisen to the summits of the highest mountains.
On the other hand, an atmosphere of hydrogenous gas, of
the same weight, would support            column of mercury
                                             a
nearly 29 inches on the summit of Mount Blanc.
   The several gases constantly found in every portion of
atmospheric air, and in such quantities as are capable of
being appreciated, are azotic, oxygenous, aqueous vapour,
and carbonic acid.           It
                             probable that hydrogenous gas
                                   is
also    constantly present, but in so small proportion as
       is
not to be detected           by
                          any test we are acquainted with           :
it must therefore be confounded in the large mass of azotic
gas.
I.   Of tlie IFeighl   of    the Oxygenous and   Azotic Atmospheres .
   Various processes have been used to determine the quan
tity of oxygenous gas.
    1. The mixture of nitrous gas and air over water.
    2. Exposing the air to liquid sulphuret of potash or lime,
with or without agitation.
    3. Exploding hydrogen gas and air            by
                                            electricity.
   4. Exposing the air to        solution of green sulphat or
                                        a
muriat of iron in water strongly impregnated with ni
trous gas.
   5. Burning phosphorus        the air.in
                                                                   In

              the several Gases in the Atmosphere.            351
    ID all these cases the oxygen enters into combination and
loses its elasticity ; and if the several processes be conducted
skilfully, the results are precisely the same from all. In
all parts of the earth, and at every season of the year, the
bulk of any given quantity of atmospheric air appears to be
reduced nearly 21 per cent. by abstracting its oxygen. This
fact, indeed, has not been generally admitted till lately ;
 some chemists having found, as they apprehended, a great
 difference in the quantity of oxygen in the air at different
 times and places; on some occasions 20 per cent. and on
 others 30 and more, of oxygen are said to have been found.
 This I have no doubt was owing to their not understand
 ing the nature of the operation, and of the circumstances
 influencing it.    Indeed, it is difficult to see, on any hypo
 thesis, how a disproportion of these two elements should
 ever subsist in the atmosphere.
     As the first of the processes above mentioned has been
 much discredited by late authors, and as it appears from
 my experience to be not only the most elegant and expedi
 tious of all the methods hitherto used, but also as correct
 as any of them when properly conducted, I shall, on this
 occasion, animadvert upon it.
     1. Nitrous gas may be obtained pure by nitric acid di
 luted with an equal bulk of water poured upon copper or
 mercury ; little or no artificial heat should be applied. —
 The last product of gas this way obtained docs not contain
 any sensible portion of azotic gas ; at least, it may easily be
 got with less than 2 or 3 per cent, of that gas.       It is pro
  bably nearly free from nitrous oxide also,       when   thus ob
 tained.
     2. If 100 measures of common air be put to 36 of pure
 nitrous gas in a tube 3- lOths of an inch wide and 5 inches
 long, after a few minutes the whole will be reduced to 79
  or 80 measures, and exhibit no signs of either oxygenous
  or nitrous gas.
     3. If 100 measures of common air be admitted to 72 of
  nitrous gas in a wide vessel over water, such as to form a
  thin stratum of air, and an immediate momentary agitation
  be used, there will, as before, be found 79 or 80 measures
 of pure azotic gas for a residuum.
     4. If, in the last experiment, less than 72 measures of
  nitrous gas be used, there will be a residuum containing
 oxygenous gas ; if more, then some residuary nitrous gas
  will be found.
     These facts clearly point out the theory of the process :
 the elements of oxygen may combine with a certain portion
                                                                 of

                                                                  e
 352                      On tlie Proportion of
 of nitrous    gas, or with twice that portion, but with rio
 intermediate quantity.       In the former case nitric acid is the
 result ; in the latter nitrous acid : but as both these may be
 formed at the same time, one part of the oxygen going to
 one of nitroits gas, and another to two, the quantity of
 nitrous gas absorbed should be variable; from 36 to 72
 per cent, for common air.         This ij the principal cause of
 that diversity which has so much appeared in the results of
 chemists on this subject.          In fact, all the gradation in
 quantity of nitrous gas from 36 to 72 may actually be ob
 served with atmospheric air of the same purity : the wider
 the tube or tessel the mixture is made in, the quicker the
 combination is effected l and the more exposed to water, the
 greater is the quantity of nitrous acid, and the kss           nitric,   o|"
 that  isformed.
    To use nitrous gas for the purpose of eudiometry, there
 fore, we must attempt to form nitric acid or nitrous wholly,
 and without       mixture of the other.
                     a                        Of these the former
 appears from my experiments to be most easily and most
 accurately effected.     In order to this,     narrow tube
                                                     a             ne           is
 cessary    ;One that-is just wide enough to let air pass water
 without requiring the tube to be agitated,        best. is Let little
more nitrous gas than           sufficient to form nitric acid be
                                   is
admitted to the oxygenous gas; let no agitation be used                               5
 and as soon as the diminution appears to be over for             mo        a
 ment, let the residuary gas be transferred to another tube,
and    itwill remain without any further diminution of con-
Sequence.      Then -nyths of the loss will be due to oxygen. —
The transferring          necessary to prevent the nitric acid
                         is
formed and combined with the water, from absorbing the
remainder of the nitrous gas to form nitrous acid.
    Sulphuret of lime            good test of the proportion of
                              is
                              a
oxygen      in  given
                 a    mixture,   provided the liquid be not more
than 20 or 30 per cent, for the gas (atmospheric air)                            :   if
the liquid exceed this, there           portion of azotic gas im
                                            is   a
bibed somewhat uncertain in quantity.
   Yolta-s eudiometer       very accurate as well as elegant and
                              is
expeditious      according to Monge, 100 oxygen require 196
                 :
measures of hydrogen         according to Davy, 92
                              ;                             but from
                                                              1   ;
the most attentive observations of my own, 185 are suffi
cient.    In atmospheric air always find 60 per cent. dimi
                                        I
nution when fired with an excess of hydrogen             that is, 100
                                                              ;
common air with 60 hydrogen become 100 after the ex
plosion, and no oxygen          found in the residuum
                                   is                         here 31 :
oxygen    take  39  hydrogen.
                                                                            a.       Of

              the several  Gases in the Atmosphere.           353
   f . Of the   freight of the AqtieouJ Vapour Atmosphere.
   I have, iil a former essay, (Manchester Mem. vol. v.
p. 2, page 559,) given a table of the force of vapour in
vacuo for every degree of temperature, determined oy ex
periment, and in the sequel of the essay have shown that
the force of vapour in the atmosphere is the very same as in
vacuo, when they are both at their utmost for any given
temperature. To find the force of aqueous vapour in the
atmosphere, therefore, we have nothing more to do than
to find that degree of cold at which it begins to be con
densed, arid opposite to it in the table above mentioned
will be found the force of vapour. From the various facts
mentioned in the essay, it is obvious, that vapour con
tracts no chemical umon with any of the gases in the at
mosphere; this fact has since been etiforced in the Annales
de Chimie, vol. xlii. by Clement and Desorme.
   M. De Saussure found by an excellent experirpcrtt, that
dry air of 64° will admit so much vapour as to increase its
elasticity ^Vth. — This I have repeated nearly in his man
ner, and found a similar result.       But the table he has given
us of aqueous vapour at other temperatures            is very far
wrong, especially at temperatures distant from 64°. — The
numbers were not the result of direct experiment, like the
one above. — If we could obtain the temperatures of all
parts of the earth-s surface, for any given time, a mean of
them would probably be 57° or 5S°.         Now, if we may sup
pose the force of vapour equivalent to that df 55°, at a
medium, it will, from the table, be = to -443 of mercury,
or nearly -»y h of the whole atmosphere. This, it will be
perceived, is calculated to be the weight of vapour in the
whole atmosphere of the earth. If that incumbent over
any place at any time be required, it may be found as di
rected above.
    3.  Of the H --eight of   ihe Carbonic Acid Atmosphere.
   From    some observations of Humboldt, I was led to ex-
       about y.J-ydth part of the weight of the atmosphere to
  e carbonic acid gas : but I soon found that the proportion
Pcct
was immensely overrated.          From repeated experiments, all
nearly agreeing     in their results, and made at different sea
sons of the year, 1 have found, that if a glass vessel filled
with 102,400 grains of rain water be emptied in the open
air, and 125 grains of strong lime water oe poured in, and
the mouth then closed ; by sufficieut time and agitation,
the whole of the lime water is just saturated by the acid
   Vol.   23.  No.  92. Jan.   1806.    Z                      gas

3*4                     On the Proportion      of
gas   it finds in that volume of air. But 1 25 grains of the
lime water used require 70 grain measures of carbonic acid
gas to saturate it; therefore, the 102,400 grain measures of
 common air contain 70 of carbonic acid, or -nV^th of the
whole. The weight of the carbonic acid atmosphere then
 is to that of the whole compound as 1 : 1460 ; but the
weight of carbonic acid gas in a given portion of air at the
 earth-s surface, is nearly -r-Js-^dth of the whole ; because
 the specific gravity of the gas is i-l. that of common air.
 I have since found that the air in an assembly, in which
two hundred people had breathed for two hours, with the
 windows and doors shut, contained little more than 1 per
cent, of carbonic acid gas.
    Having now determined the force with which each at
 mosphere presses on the earth-s surface, or in other words
its weight, it remains next to inquire into their specific
 gravities.
    These may be seen in the following table.
              Atmospheric air       -         -      1-000
              Azotic gas      -           -           -966
              Oxygenous gas         -         -      1-127
              Carbonic acid gas               -      1•500
              Aqueous vapour                  -       -/OO
              Hydrogenous gas          -      -       -077*
    Kirwan and Lavoisier are my authorities for these num
bers, except oxygenous gas and aqueous vapour.              For the
 former I am indebted to Mr. Davy-s Chemical Researches ;
his number is something greater than theirs : I prefer                  it,
because, being determined with at least equal attention to
accuracy with the others,        ithas this further claim for cre
dit, that 21 parts of gas of this specific gravity, mixed with
79 parts of azotic gas, make           a compound of exactly the
same specific gravity as the atmosphere, as they evidently
ought to do, setting aside the unfounded notion of their
forming       a chemical compound.          The specific gravity of
aqueous vapour     I  have determined myself, both            by
                                                            analytic
and synthetic methods, after the manner of De Saussure                  ;
              byabstracting aqueous vapour of
      a is,                                            known force
that                                                  a
from       given quantity  of  air,  and   weighing; the water ob
tained— and admitting        agiven weight of viater to dry air,
and comparing the loss with the increased elasticity.            De
Saussure makes the specific gravity to be ,71 or ,75            but.
                                                                   ;
  * The
          specific gravity of hydrogen must be rated too low if 100 oxygen
                                                          :
require li<s hydrogen by measure, according to this 89 oxygen woum re
qusre only 11 hydrogen to form water; whcc-eas 85 require 15. Hydrogen
ought lo be f.ound about l--0th part of the weight of common air.
                                                                       he

                the several   Gates in the Atmosphere.                355
 he used caustic alkali as the absorbent, which would extract
 the carbonic acid as well as the aqueous vapour from the
 air.    From the experiments of Pictet and Watt, I deduce
 the specific gravity of aqueous vapour to be ,61 and ,67 re
 spectively.      Upon the whole, therefore, it is probable that
 ,7 is very nearly accurate.
     We have now sufficient data to form tables answering to
 the two first objects of our inquiry.
 I. Table of the Weights of         the different Gases constituting
                            the Atmosphere.
                                                  Inch, of mercury.
             Azotic   gas        -        -        -    23-36
              Oxygenous gas        -         -     -      6-18
             Aqueous vapour             -          -       -44
              Carbonic acid gas        -           -       '02
                                                        30-00
 If.  Talle of the proportional Weights of the different Gases
     in a given Volume of Atmospheric Air, taken at tlie Sur
    face of the Earth.
                                                       per cent.
             Azotic   gas     -                         75-55
             Oxygenous gas            -            -    23-32
             Aqueous vapour
             Carbonic acid gas
                                                      100-OO
   III.   On the Proportion of Gases at different Elevations.
     M.   Berthollet seems to think that the lower strata of the
 atmosphere ought to contain more oxygen than the upper,
 because of the greater specific gravity of oxygenous ga?,
 and the slight affinity of the two gases for each other. (See
 Anna), de Chimie, torn, xxxiv. p. 85.) As I am unable to
 conceive even the possibility of two gases being held toge
 ther by affinity, unless their particles unite so as to form
one centre of repulsion out of two or more (in which case
they become one ga»), I cannot see why rarefaction should
either decrease or increase this supposed affinity.               I have
little doubt, however, as to the fact of oxygenous gas ob
 serving a diminishing ratio in ascending ; for, the atmo
spheres being independent on each other, their densities at
different heights must be regulated by their specific gravi-
   * The proportion of aqueous vapour must be understood to be variable
for any one placei the others are permanent, or Dearly to.
                                   Z 2                              ties.

 356                   Experiments on the Torpedo.
 ties. Hence, if we take the azotic atmosphere as a standard,
 the oxygenous and the carbonic acid will observe a decreas
 ing ratio to it in ascending, and the aqueous vapour an
 increasing one. The specific gravity of oxygenous and
 azotic gases being as 7 to 6 nearly, their diminution in
 density will be the same at heights reciprocally as their spe
 cific gravities.       Hence it would be found., that at the height
 of Mount Blanc (nearly three English miles), the ratio of
 oxygenous gas to azotic, in a given volume of air, would
 be nearly as 20 to 80 : — consequently it follows that at any
 ordinary heights the difference in the proportions will be
 scarcely if at all perceptible*.
 LXVII.       Experiment!! on the Torpedo, ly Messrs. HUM-
      BOLDT and GAY-LUSSAC.                  Extracted from a Letter
    from M. HUMBOLDT to M. BKRTHOLLET, dated Rome,
      15 Fructid. Year I3f.
  JL HE phaenomenaof electric            fish ought to be the subject of
 our renewed researches,          with   a view to tly opinion of many
 philosophers,        who   conceive    that  they are capable of being
 explained upon         the  principles   of that  beautiful theory with
 which Volta has enriched science.                 You well know, my
 respected     friend,    what   must    have   been  our anxiety to pro
 cure the torpedo; and you will perhaps be astonished that
 I should be so long in writing to you respecting it. At
 Genoa we found some of them, but we were then without
 instruments.          At Civita Vecchia we searched for them in
 vain.      At last, during our stay at Naples, we procured
 them very frequently, of great size, and very vigcrous.                       I
-shall relate to you, in this letter, the scries of experiments
 which M. Gay-Lussac and I have instituted upon the action
 of the torpedo (Raja Torpedo of Linnaeus). M. de Buch,
 a German mineralogist, was present at our experiments.                        I
 present to you the results which they afforded, and relate
 the facts without introducing any theoretical notions.
      Our experiments were principally intended to discover
 those conditions in which the torpedo is unable to coinmu-
     • Air
           brought from the summit of Helvclyn, in Cumberland (1 fOO yards
 above the sea — barometer being 26/i0), in Iuly 18O4, gave no perceptible
 difference from the air taken in Manchester.      M. Gay-Lussac determines
 the constitution of air brought from an elevation of four miles to be the same
 as that at the earth-s surface.
    f From Annalcs tic Chimie, no. ICG.
                                                                        nicatc

                         Experiments on the Torpedo.        357
Jiicatc those shocks termed electric, although the feeling is
very different from that which is occasioned by the dis
charge of a Leyden phial.      Having at hand no other work
besides that of Aldini, in which he has combined into one
view the beautiful researches of Geoffroy with those of
Spallanzani and Galvani, we shall not have it in our power
to compare our own labours with those of preceding phi
losophers.
    1. Although the power of the torpedo cannot be com
pared to that of the gymnotus, it is not less capable of oc
casioning disagreeable sensations.     A person much in the .
custom of receiving electric shocks, supports with simie
difficulty the shock of a torpedo 14 inches long, and in a
state of perfect vigour.     The gymnotus communicates its
influence under water, unless when much weakened.
    M. Gay-Lussac has observed, that the action of the tor
pedo in this condition is not perceptible until it is raised
above the surface of the water.    It is with this fish, as with
frogs on which Galvanic experiments are made : the cir
cumstances under which the contraction takes place, vary
according to the degree of excitability in the organs.
    2. I have remarked, while in South America, that the
 gymnotus gives the most frightful shocks without making
 any external motion of the eyes, head, or fins : it moves no
 more than one person communicating an idea or sensation
 to another.    But the-torpedo, on the contrary, moves its
 pectoral fins in a convulsive manner before each shock ;
 and the violence of the stroke is always proportioned to the
 extent of the surface of contact.
    3. The organs of the torpedo, or gymnotus, cannot be
 discharged by us at will, like a Leyden phial or a Galvanic
 pile ; nor does the dcciric fish uniformly communicate a
 shock when touched.       It must be irritated that it may give
 its stroke ; for this action depends upon the will of the
 animal, which in all probability does not always keep its
 electric organs charged : it charges them, however, with
astonishing celerity, 'and is thus able to give a long series
of shocks.
    4. The shock is felt, provided the animal is disposed fo
 giveit,   when single tinker
                    a            .applied to
                                     is        single surface of
                                                a
 the electric organs    or when the two bands are placed one
                           ;
on the upper and the other on its under surface at the same
time.     And in either of these cases the shock       isequally
communicated, whether the person be insulated or not.
    5. If person while insulated touches the torpedo with
           a
his linger,    it indispensably necessary that the ringer be in
                    is
                                   Z   3              immediate

358               Experiments on the Torpedo.
immediate contact ; for no shock is communicated when a
conducting body, such as a piece of metal, is interposed
between the finger and the organs of the fish. Thus we
may touch the animal with a key, or other metallic instru
ment, and experience no shock in consequence.
     6. M. Gay-Lussac having observed this important fact,
we placed the torpedo on a plate of metal, so that the in
ferior surface of its electric organs was in contact with the
m-etal.     The hand which supported the plate felt no shock,
although another person in a state of insulation irritated the
animal, and when the convulsive motions of its pectoral
fins plainly indicated very powerful discharges of its elec
tric fluid.
     7. If on the contrary a person support the torpedo placed
on a metallic plate, with his left hand as in the preceding
experiment, and with his right touches the upper surface of
the electric organ, then a violent shock is felt in both arms
at the same moment.
     8. The same feeling is experienced       when the fish is
placed    between  two  plates of metal, the edges of which do
 not touch,- and the person applies a hand to each plate at
the same instant.
     9. But if in the preceding experiment there exists an
 immediate communication between the edges of the two
 plates, no shock is felt in the arms ; for in this case the
chain of connection between the two surfaces of the organ
 is formed by the plates, and the new communication esta
blished by applying the two hands to the plates becomes al
together inefficient.
     IO. The most delicate electrometer does not indicate the
 state of electricity of the organs of the torpedo : it is no
 way affected by any method which we can have recourse to,
 either by bringing it near to the organs, or by insulating
 the fish, covering it with a plate of metal, and then form
 ing a communication by means of a wire between the plate
 and the condenser of Volta. Nothing shows here, as in
 the gymnotus, that the animal can modify the state of
 electricity of surrounding bodies.
      11. As electric fish act while in a state of health with
 the same power under water as in the air, we examined the
 conducting properties of this fluid.     A number of persons
 having formed a circle of connection between the upper and
 under surfaces of the organs of the torpedo, no shock was
 experienced till they had moistened their hands with water.
 The shock is equally felt when two persons who have their
  right hands applied to the torpedo, instead of taking hold of
           3                                              each

                  Experiments on the Torpedo.               35ft
each other-s left hands, plunge a pointed piece of metal into
a drop of water placed upon an insulating body.
    12. By substituting flame instead of a. drop of water, the
communication is interrupted, and no sensation is expe
rienced until the two pieces of metal touch each other
within the flame. .
    13. We must also ohserve that no shock will take place
either in air or under water, unless we immediately touch
the body of the electric fish. They are unable to give their
stroke through a layer of water, however thin ; a fact
which is the more remarkable, as we know that in Galvanic
experiments, where the frog is placed under water, it is
sufficient to bring the silver forceps near to the muscles,
and that the contraction takes place when the layer of water
interposed is one or two millimetres in thickness.
    Such, my respected friend, are the principal observations
which we have made upon the torpedo. Experiments 4th
And 10th prove that the electric organs of these animals
manifest no tension or excess of charge.      We should rather
be inclined to compare their action to a chain of small
Leyden phials than to the pile of Volta. As some commu
nication is always necessary for the occurrence of a shock,
and having received strokes from the gymnotus through
very dry cords, I conclude that in the case where this
powerful animal appeared to give these violent shocks with
out the existence of any communication, it must have
arisen from my impeifect insulation.        If the torpedo acts
by poles, by    an electrical equilibrium  which    tends to re
establish itself, experiments olhand Gthseem to prove that
these poles exist near one another upon the same surface of
 the organ : for we feel the shock by touching a single sur
 face with the finger.    A plate interposed between the hand
 and the organ (6.) re-establishes of itself the equilibrium,
 and the hand which supports this plate feels nothing, be
 cause it is out of the current of the electric influence.  But
 if we suppose a number of poles of different descriptions
 upon each surface of the organ, why is it that, by cover
 ing these with two metallic plates the edges of which do
 not touch, and placinsr the hands upon these plates, the
 equilibrium is rc-cstabTished    through the medium of the
 arms ? Wherefore, it may be asked, does not the positive
 electricity of the interior surlucc seek, at the moment of
 explosion, the negative electricity of the neighbouring pole ?
 and wherefore does it find it only in the superior surface of
 the electric organ ? These difficulties are perhaps not in-
                               Z4                 surmountable,

  360              Notices respecting New Books.
  sumountable, but the theory of these vital actions requires
   still further research.       Geoffrey* has proved that rays,
  which do not exhibit any marks of electricity, possess or
  gans very analogous to those of the torpedo. The least
  injury of the brain of this animal prevents . its electrical
  action.     The nerves, therefore, without doubt, act the
  chief part in the production of these phenomena ; and the
  physiologist, who takes a general and enlarged view of the
  vital -actions, would with reason oppose the ideas of the
  philosopher, who conceives he can explain the whole by
  the contact of the albumino-gelatinous pulp with the ten
  dinous septa which nature has combined in the formation
 of the organs of (he torpedo.
              LXVIII.     Notices respecting    New Books.
  J-  UK Philosophical      Transactions of the Royal Society of
 London for      1805,    Part II., contain the following papers:
 1 • Abstract of Observations on a Diurnal Variation of the
 Barometer between the Tropjcs. By J. Horsburgh, Esq. —
 2. Concerning the Difference in the Magnetic Needle, on
 board the Investigator, arising*" from an Alteration in the
 Direction of the Ship-s Head.           By Matthew Flinders, Esq.
 Commander of His Majesty-s Ship Investigator. — 3. The
 Physiology of the Stapes, one of the Bones of the Organ
 of Hearing ; deduced from a comparative View of its
Structure and Uses in different Animals. By Anthony
 Carlisle, Esq. F. R. S.— 4. On an Artificial Substance
which possesses the principal characteristic Properties of
Tannin. By Charles Hatchett, Esq. F. U.S.— 5. The Case
of a full grown Woman in whom the Ovaria were deficient.
By Mr. Charles Pears, F.L.S. — 6. A Description of Mal
formation in the Heart of an Infant.                    By Mr. Hugh
Chudleigh Standart. — 7. On a Method of analysing Stones
containing fixed Alkali, by means of the Boracic Acid.
By Humphrey Davy, Esq. F.H.S. — S. On the Direction
and Velocity of the Motion of the Sun and Solar System.
By \Villiam Herschel, LL.D. F.R.S.— 9. On the Repro
duction of Buds.            By Thomas Andrew Knight, Esq.
F.R.S. — 10. Some Account of Two Mummies of the
Egyptian Ibis, one of which was in a remarkably perfect
        • For M. Geiflroy-s paper, sec Phil. Mag. vol. xv. p. 12G.
                                                                   State.

                  Notices respecting New Books.              3(5 \
 State. By John Pearson, Esq. F.R.S. — 11. Observations
 on the singular Figure of the Planet Saturn.       By William
 Herschel, LL.D. F.R.S. — 12. On the Magnetic Attrac
 tion of Oxides of Iron. By Timothy Lane, Esq. F.R.S.
 — 13. Additional Experiments and Remarks on an Artifi
 cial Substance, whiich possesses the principal charac
 teristic Properties of Tannin.       By Charles Hatchett, Esq.
 F.R.S. — 1.}. On the Discovery of Palladium, with Ob
 servations on other Substances found with Platina.           By
 William Hyde Wollaston, M.D. F.R.S.— 15. Experi
 ments on a Mineral Substance, formerly supposed to be
 Zeolite, with some Remarks on Two Species of Urau-glim-
 mer.     By the Rev. William Gregor.
    Several of the above papers have been laid before our
 readers in our last and in the present number.
    The Royal Society of Edinburgh has published the con
 clusion of its 5th volume.       It contains the following pa
 pers:   1.  On the  Origin  aTid   radical Sense of the Greek
 Prepositions.    By Mr. James Bonner. — 2. Experiments on
 the Contraction of Water by Heat, at low Temperatures.
By Dr. Thomas Charles Hope (published in our present
volume, p. 153). — 3. The History of the Society, consist
ing of the following Articles : —Diurnal Variations of the
 Barometer. By Mr. Playfair. — Aurora Borealis observed in
 Day-Light.      By the Rev. Dr. Patrick Graham. — Pheno
menon of Two Rainbows intersecting one another.              By
 Mr. Playfair. — On the Combustion of the Diamond.           By
Sir George Mackenzie, Bart. — Remarks on the Basalts of
the Coast of Antrim. By the Rev. Dr. Richardson. — Rule
for reducing a Square Root by a continued Fraction.          By
James Ivory, Esq. — Singular Variety of Hernia. By Mr.
Russel. — Concerning the Chartreuse of Perth.           By the
Abbe Mann. — Explanation of the Old Word Skull or Skoll.
By the Rev. Dr. Jamieson. — Biographical Account of the
late Dr. James Hutton.         By Mr. Playfair. —Minutes of
the Life and Character of Dr. Joseph Black. By Dr. Fer-
         — Appendix. — List of Members elected since the
   ublication of the last Volume.— List of Donations.
?ison.
    The Literary   and Philosophical Society of Manchester,
to  which   the philosophical world was before indebted for a
number of valuable papers published at different periods, in
five volumes, has just published another volume, being the
first of a new series. Its contents are : — 1 . An Essay Phy
siological and Experimental on the Effects of Opium on the
                                                         Living

   302            Notices respecting New Books.
  Living System.      By William Alexander, M.D. — 2. On
  the Machinery of the Ancient Epic Poem.             By the Rev.
  G. Walker, F. R.S — 3. Observations ott the Effect of
  Madder Root on the Bones of Animals. By Mr. B. Gibson.
  -^-4. On the Use and Abuse of Popular Sports and Exer
  cises, resembling those of the Greeks and Romans, as a
  national Object.    By S. A. Bardsley, M.D. — 5. Reverie;
  considered as connected with Literature ; an Essay.          By
  the Rev. Johnson Grant, A.B. — 6. Experimental Inqinry into
  the Proportion of the several Gases or Elastic Fluids consti
  tuting the Atmosphere. By John Dalton. — 7. On the Ten
  dency of Elastic Fluids to Diffusion through each other,
 By John Dalton. — 8. On the Absorption of Gases by Water
  and other Liquids.     By John Dalton. — 9. A Description of
  a Property ot Caout-chouc or Indian Rubber ; with some
 Reflections on the Cause of the Elasticity of this Substance.
  In a Letter to Dr. Holme. By Mr. John Gough. — 10. An
 Essay on the Theory of mixed Gases, and on the State of
 Water in the Atmosphere.          By Mr. J. Gough. — n. On
 tbe Use of the Sutures in the Skulis of Animals.         By Mr.
 B. Gibson. — 12. On the Moral Influence of History. By
 the Rev. G. Walker, F.R.S.— 13. Reflections on History
 and on Historians Anticnt and Modern. By John Hol
 land. — 14. On Natural and Moral Philosophy; and the
 proper Manner of philosophizing in both.           By the Rev.
 G.Walker, F.R.S.—         15. A Reply to Mr. Dalton-s Objec
 tions to a late Theory   of  mixed Gases. In a Letter from
 the Author    to Dr. Holme. By Mr. John Gough. — 16. Re
 marks on Mr. Cough-s two Essays on the Doctrine of
 mixed Gases ; and on Professor Schmidt-s Experiments on
 the Expansion of Dry and Moist Air by Heat.             By John
 Dalton.
     M. Hcrmbstafdt,    of Berlin, has published the prospectus
 of a work which he intends shortly to lay before the public.
 As this work will probably prove highly useful to calico
 printers, and dyers, we subjoin    a translation of the
                           PROSI<KCTUS.
    Having, for a period of six years, made the art of dyeing
 and printing the constant object of my labours, I have suc
ceeded in discovering a considerable number of new mor
dants for producing the most beautiful and lasting colours
for all sorls of cotton .and linen goods; likewise in pro
ducing numerous colours for copper-plate printing, and a
great variety, of all tints and shades, tor pencilling, which,
                                                              in

                       Royal Society of London.               303
in   regard    to beauty and quality, will leave but little room
for   further    exertions.
     The time bestowed on these objects, and the expenses
required for numberless trials, impose upon me the duty
of endeavouring to obtain a moderate restitution for both.
 I have therefore resolved to publish my discoveries under
the title of      "  Discoveries and Inventions for preparing
new Mordants for Cotton and Linen, in order to produce
beautiful and lasting Colours ; with Instruction for pro
 ducing genuine Colours both for Block and Copper-plate
 Printing, as also for Pencilling in all Shades."          ,
     The whole will be divided under the following heads :
     1. Instructions for determining and preparing such sub
 stances as are required for the production of new mordants,
 and colours for printing and pencilling.
     2. Instructions for compounding new mordants.
     3. Instructions for compounding genuine and beautiful
 colours for printing in all tints and shades.
     4. Instructions for compounding genuine and beautiful
 colours of all tints for pencilling.
     To those who confide in my abilities and character,          I
 offer this work, by way of subscription, at the price of
 three guineas; and at the expiration of March 1806 the
 subscription will be closed, when the printing of it will
 take place, and the price to non-subscribers will then be
  five guineas.
      Berlin,                               S. F. HERMBSTAEDT.
 Dec. 13, 1805.
      Subscribers in London, or other parts of Britain, are re
  quested to apply, post paid, to Mr. J. Hunneman, No. 6,
  Frith-street, Soho, where subscriptions will be received,
  and proper receipts given.       Such as are not masters of the
  German language, are informed that a translation of the
  above work will DC undertaken by
                                                   J. HUNNEMAN.
              LXIX.     Proceedings  of Learned  Societies.
                      ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
   ON      the evening of Thursday, the 9lh instant, this society
   assembled     after the Christmas holidays, the right honoura
   ble Sir Joseph Banks, bart. president, in the chair. A sum
   mary of Mr. Brande-s experiments on guaiacum, as men
   tioned in our last month-s report, was read.       In 10O grains
                                                                 of

36   1              Royal Society       of London.
 of that substance, according to the analysis of this ingc-.
 nious chemist, there were (as near as we can recollect)
 22-J. grains of water and oil ; of empyreumatic oil about 30;
 carbon 30; lime 9; carbonated hydrogen gas about 8.            In
 a postscript the author noticed a solution of euaiacum that
had assumed the appearance of canut-chouc, 1iut when re
duced to the solid form it became brittle.       Of the chemical
accuracy     of  Mr.  Brande-s  experiments  there cannot be the
least doubt ; but he has for the present rested content with
giving only a general analysis, without entering into a de
tail of  al]  the constituent principles of this vegetable pro
duct, to which he has very properly given the generic de
nomination of extracto-resin.         From these experiments,
and the more profound researches of the very accurate and
indefatigable Mr. Hatchet     t, we may shortly expect to pos
sess ample knowledge of the nature and properties of gums,
resins, and balsams.
    On the same evening commenced the reading of letter     a
from F. A. Knight, csq. to the right honourable Sir Joseph
 Banks, on the descent of the roots, and the elongation of
 the germs, of plants. To the right honourable President who
 directs, and the philosopher who executes these vegetable
physiological researches, the public      deeply indebted; and
                                           is
Mr. Knight, perhaps with the exception of Hedwig,               is
                                                                al
most the only botanist   in   Europe who seems to be convinced
that botany    is not
                    a   science but as    it connected with the
                                               is
physiology of vegetation, and the anatomy of vegetables.
While other botanists are occupied with fruitless and dis-
  listing logomachies on terminology, this naturalist mo-
§ estly develops the progress of vegetation, the true philo
sophy of botany, with an ardour, originality, and accuracy
of observation, that must eventually produce the most be
neficial consequences to society. We would not deprive
Mr. Knight of the honour of presenting the public with
the result of his researches       inhis own terms,    by antici
pating the consequent advantages to agriculture in dgve-
loping the best means of administering the most proper
quantity and quality of food necessary to facilitate the
growth and augment the size of those plants which are in
dispensable to animal existence.
    January 16, the right honourable the President in the
chair.     Continuation of Mr. Knight-s «xcellent paper on
vegetable radiation and germination.        To determine whe
 ther the descent of the roots of plants was the effect of an
inherent principle, or the consequence of mechanical gra
vitation, the author placed different seeds in boxes attached
                                                               to

                    Royal Society    of London.                  365
to two wheels, one      of which was horizontal) and the other
vertical, turned by a rivulet lhat runs through his garden.
One of these wheels performed 1.50 and the other 25y
rotations in a minute; a velocity which rendered the power
of gravitation equal on both sides of the seed, and pro
duced, as the author had expected, the protrusion of roots
and elongation of germs in all directions.            From several
 very decisive experiments to elucidate this fact, he con
cludes, contrary to Du Uainel, that gravitation is the sole
 cause of the descent of roots and ascent of germs, and that
 both diverge in all directions when under the influence of
 equal pressure.     His observations also refute the too com
 mon notion that the roots of plants have an affinity for
 water, or rather that water attracts them from their accus
 tomed direction by the nutriment which it affords. Mr. K.
 confirms, however, the generally received opinion of the
 affinity of plants for light.      On the reputed tap-root of
 oaks he observes, that, alter examining above 200O trees,
 not one of which had such a root, he thinks he shall be
 pardoned for concluding that it has no existence.         Of these
 interesting experiments       we  shall  only  observe,   that,  al
 though    the naturalist  has  carefully noted  the  time taken   by
 the different seeds to germinate in the horizontal and ver
 tical wheels, he has not mentioned what time would have
 been necessary for the same purpose in similar earth sub-
 jc-ct to the usual effect of gravitation.     Such a comparison
 made with seeds of all the different qualities capable of ve
 getating, might develop some facts important to our pre
 sent system of husbandry. On the same evening also com
 menced the reading of a " Third Communication on Arti
 ficial Tannin, by Mr. Ilatchett."
     Januarv 23, the right honourable the President in the
 chair.     Continuation of the above communication.             Mr.
  Ha-.chett found that all gums, resins, and balsams, yield
 this artificial tanning substance on being treated with nitric
  acid, as observed in his preceding papers.         It apprars that
  all these substances yield at one operation a certain quantity
  of this matter; but if the process be continued too long
 the product is destroyed,      the same as the natural tannin is
  by nitric acid. Mr. Hatchett was not able to ascertain
  either the specific quantity produceable at once, nor the
 precise time requisite to disengage         the greatest possible
 quantity-without injuring the entire product.          The author,
  animated with this complete success on resinous substances,
  has pursued his researches on a vast variety of vegetable
 productions ; whence it appears, that almost al! vegetables,
                                                                 after

 36<>                  Society  of Antiquaries.
after being slightly carbonized and treated with nitric acid,
 yield this artilicial tanning substance ; and that oak-bark,
deprived of its natural tannin in the tanners- pits, by being
repeatedly charred or roasted, and as often subjected to
nitric acid, is almost totally convertible into artificial
tannin.     Horse-chesnuts are also transmutable in a similar
degree by the same process.
    The reading of the conclusion of this paper was post
 poned till the 6th of February.
                   SOCIETY     OF ANTIdUARIES.
    The meetings and adjournments of this society being the
same generally as those of the Royal, it of course assembled
 as  usual on
    January 9th, the vice-president, sir H. C. Englefieki,
hart. M. P. in the chair.       A drawing of a spear-head found
at Gringley Carr-s Common, Nottingham, in 1 803, was
exhibited.    This instrument is evidently of Roman origin ;
and from the circumstance of its having been so long in the
earth without being discoloured or rusted, the learned an
tiquary supposed it to have been made of Corinthian brass.
A similar implement is described in the ninth volume of
the Archaeologia, and considered as Roman manufacture.
With regard to the peculiar qualities and composition of
these instruments, a very learned and truly philosophical
paper by Dr. G. Pearson, published in the Transactions of
the Royal Society for 1 796, will afford the most satisfactory
information.      From the very accurate chemical analysis of
this philosopher, it appears that these Roman instruments,
spear-heads    and swords, found in various parts of Eng
land, are not brass as commonly alleged, but an alloy of
copper and tin, in the proportion of about 10 parts of the
former to one of the latter, the specific gravity of which
was about 8•500.         Geoffroy, indeed, after a number of
experiments    that  might beany thing but chemical, flattered
count Caylus by alleging that they were an alloy of copper
and iron ! Such an opinion might have been philosophical
in the age of alchemy. From the researches of Dr. Pearson
on this subject, a report was made by some French che
mists, in 1801, a translation of which was published in the
 10th volume, p. 340, of the Philosophical           Magazine.
There are many circumstances that rentier an intimate
knowledge of this peculiar alloy so much in use with
the Romans,         highly interesting to the English anti
quary.     Doubtless the Romans, when they overran this
country, taught the antient Britons how to manufacture
                                                            this

                     Society   of Antiquaries.                   367
this most useful metal.        In that case, the antient import
ance and use   of English tin must have been much greater
than hitherto supposed. But there is a more modem use of
this alloy, which antiquaries have almost wholly overlooked
or very imperfectly understood, and to which we should
beg leave to call their attention : we mean those engraved
plates on tomb-stones,          and sarcophagi, vulgarly called
 brass, and many of them actually are of that metal ; but
there are more, especially of those made in the 12th, 13th,
and 14th centuries, of this gun-metal, or an alloy of copper
and    tin. The churches at St. Albans*, Watford, &c. and
almost all parts of England, contain tombs decorated with
these plates,    supposed, perhaps         erroneously, to be of
Flemish manufacture.         It is not improbable, indeed, that
those which are made of brass, and which are almost en
tirely consumed with rust, may be of foreign origin, while
those made of copper and tin hate withstood the action of
 the humid atmosphere of vaults upwards of four centuries,
without any indication of oxidation or consumption by
nist.
     On the same evening the indefatigable Mr. Lysons fur
 nished some curious items respecting the origin and history
 of sugar. It appears that the antients had nothing but
 honey ; and that, till about the year 620 of the present
 tera, sugar-cane was wholly unknown.             The discovery is
 ascribed to a Venetian, who called it cane-honey. It is not
 above 20O years since refined sugar was first introduced into
 Europe from China by the Portuguese and English.
    January 16, the vice-president, sir H. C. Englefield,
 bart. in the chair.    Several curious extracts from his ma
jesty-s records in the Tower, by Mr. Lysons, were read, on
 the prices of drugs and medicines during the reigns of the
 first Edwards.
     January 23, the right honourable the earl of Leicester,
 president, in the chair.       A letter from Mary de Medicis,
 queen of France, to her daughter, Henrietta Maria, queen
 of Charles the First, was exhibited by Dr. Garthshore.            It
 contained nothing particular, but merely a recommenda
 tion of the bearer to her daughter-s attention.           According
 to the usage of that period (1636) it was scaled with two
 seals united by a narrow tape or ribbon.              Several other
 miscellaneous letters were read, but which were of a na
 ture and importance that do not call for particular notice.
             • S« Braylfy-s Beauties of England and Wales.
                                                              PHILO-

368                       Pli-dosophical Societies;
     PHILOSOPHICAL         SOCIETY, BOROUGH OF SOUTHWARK.
     It                 at all times to be able to record the
          gives us pleasure
formation                    the diffusion of knowledge ; and
                  of societies for
it is with much satisfaction we announce that one lias been
formed in the Borough which promises to prove useful.
The society meets at the house of Mr. Snart, optician, SI A
Tooley-street, a zealous promoter of, and diligent inquirer
into, every thing connected with natural philosophy.
                       MUSEUM ALEXANDRINUK.
    By letters from Petersburgh of the 22d December last,
 we are informed that a number of. persons have united to
 establish a society under the above name, for the purpose
 of making a collection of works of art of all kinds, and to
 combine with it a collection of the best scientific works and
journals.     This society means to publish its transactions.
           BATAVIAN SOCIETY OF SCIENCES, HAAHLF.Jvf.
     The following particulars are extracted from the program
of   the society for the year 1805 :
     1. The society have received, upon the question which
requires     "A  memoir containing the principal facts that
have      beenhitherto brought to light by the electric pile of
Volta, and by the numerous experiments made to ascertain
its effects," an answer in Dutch, having for motto Men.
sticht gren eerezu-d, Sec.     They have adjudged that this
memoir indicates strongly the talents of its author, but that
it cannot receive the prize. They have therefore deter
mined to repeat this question ; the answer to be given in
before the 1st of November 1806.
    2. They have received upon the question — " What are the
principles in the natural history of fire, respecting the pro
duction, communication, and confinement of heat, requi
site to determine the most oeconomical mode of employing
fuel for the different purposes of heating^ and how may we
improve, according to these principles, chimneys for warm
ing apartment*, and stoves in kitchens, with a view to
save, as much as possible, the fuel which is in common
use with us?" a memoir in German, having for motto,
Inest in erpllcatione naturce insatiaiilis rluanlam e cog-
noscendis reius voluptas, &c. Cicero.        This memoir ap
peared   to correspond  so exactly  to  the question proposed,
that the prize was unanimously adjudged to it. On opening
the letter which accompanied            it,
                                      the author was found to
be John Joseph Prechtl, of Brunn, in Moravia.
              1                                       3.   They

              Bat avion Society  of Sciences, Haarlem.      3 69
    3. They have received upon the question, — " What is
at present known of the causes which occasion the corrup
tion of stagnant water ? and are we able to discover, from
the knowledge we possess upon this subject, or from any
thing that can be proved by decisive experiments, the most
effectual, and at the same time innocent, means of prevent
ing the corruption of stagnant water?" two memoirs ; the
one in Dutch, having for motto, Neque vtro neglieentiam,
Etc. Hipp.; the other in French, having as motto, Magnum
artis partem, &c. Hipp.         They have determined to repeat
the question.      The answer to be given in before the 1st of
November 1806.
    4. They have received upon the question, — " What light
has the new chemistry thrown upon the physiology of the
human body?" a memoir in Dutch, having for motto,
 Vita brevis, ars longa, &c.; which was judged too super
ficial to receive the prize.
    They have received also upon this question, and upon
the two following :
    5«
       " How far has the light thrown by the new chemistry
upon the physiology of the human body contributed to im
prove the knowledge of certain diseases ? and what useful
consequences, in any degree confirmed by experience, can
we deduce from it in the practice of medicine ?"
    6. " How far has the new chemistry tended to furnish
precise notions with regard to the actions of certain external
and internal remedies which have been either long in use or
revived anew ? and what advantages can we derive from a
more exact knowledge of these actions in the treatment of
certain diseases ?" memoirs in French, having for motto,
Est modus in rebus.
   The society have determined to propose the following
questions: candidates to deliver their answers by the* 1st of
November 1 806 :
    "  1. How far has chemistry explained the principles or
component elements of plants, and more especially of such
as furnish food ? and what conclusions can we draw, cither
from the knowledge which we already possess upon this
subject, or from what we can discover by experiment, aided
by our knowledge of physiology, with regard to the vege
tables which are best suited to the support of the human
body both in health and in some diseases ?"
   " 2. Are we enabled, by our present .knowledge of
the elements composing the food of animals, to explain
satisfactorily the origin of the several principles or consti
tuent parts of the human body ; as for example, of the cal-
    Vol.  23.  No. 92..Ja/i. 1806.      A  a           careou§

370       Batavian   Society of Sciences, Haarlem.
carcous earth, the ,soda, phosphorus, iron, &c.r or are thesc
substances introduced into the animal boilv in some other
way ? or are there any experiments and observations which
would lead us to suppose that at least some of those prin
ciple?, although we are unable to compose or analyse them
by chemical means, are produced by a peculiar action of
the living organs ?" In case the author should adopt in his
answer the last opinion, it will be sufficient that he prove
clearly the production *of one of the above-mentioned prin
ciples.
    "3. What arc the facts which our experience has satis
factorily established regarding the acceleration of the ger
mination of seeds, which Humboldt first attempted by
sprinkling them with oxymuriatic acid : — as well as regard
ing the other methods, besides common manures and heat,
which have been employed to forward the vegetation of
plants in general and their germination in particular? how
far can we explain, by the physiology of plants, in what
manner these methods act ? what assistance can we derive
from our knowledge upon this point, in our furth* re
searches regarding either the. means already had recourse to
and others ? and what advantage can we reap from the
facts already ascertained on this subject, in the cultivation
of useful vegetables I"
    The following questions continue to be proposed for an
unlimited time :
    " 1. What have we learnt by experience respecting the
utility of certain animals which are apparently noxious,
especially in the Low Countries ? and what precautions are
to be observed regarding their extirpation ?"
    " 2. What are the indigenous plants hitherto least known
for their virtues, which mav be advantageously admitted
into our dispensaries, and which may supply the place of
foreign remedies ?"
    The memoirs which the society expects upon this ques
 tion, must exhibit not only the virtues and advantages of
these indigenous remedies, according to testimonies from
foreign countries, but also according to proofs and observa
tions made originally in our own provinces.
    " 3. What indigenous plants, hitherto not in use, can
 be employed for the purposes of wholesome nourishment at
 a low price ? and what nutrient plants from other countries
 can be cultivated here with the same view ?"
    " 4. What indigenous plants, hitherto not used as dyes,
 may be made to yield, according to accurate experiments,
 good colours, the preparation and use of which might be
            8                                      introduced

                              Vaccination.                   Z"\
introduced with advantage? and what foreign plants might
be profitably cultivated in the more barren .and waste lands
of this republic, with a view to the extraction of dyes ?"
   The society repeat again, that according to the decree
passed in the anniversary sitting of 1798, they. will con
sider at each anniversary sitting the papers that have been
communicated since the last meeting, which are not an
swers to questions proposed by the society ; and that if
there be found among them one treating of some branch of
physics, or natural history, which merits a particular re
ward, they will adjudge to that memoir, or, if there be
several of them, to the paper which shall appear most in
teresting, a silver medal having the usual device of the
society, and in addition a gratification of ten ducats.
   The answers may be made in Dutch, French, Latin, or
German, but only in Roman characters : they must be
accompanied by a sealed letter containing the name and
address of the author, and sent to M. Van Marum, secre
tarv to the society.
   The prize destined for the memoir, which in the opinion
of the society shall contain the best answer to any one of
the Questions above mentioned, is a gold medal, having the
usual device of the society, and on the border the name of
the author, with the year in which he received the prize, or
thirty ducats, at the option of the person to whom the me
dal shall have been decreed .
       LXX.      Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                            VACCINATION.
-t5r   a  calculation of ten years from January 1st 1*91 to
January      1st 1801, it appears that the average number of
deaths    at  Vienna was 14,600, out of which were 835 chil
dren   of  the  small-pox.     In 1801, the period in which vac-
ciuation began      to   be introduced,  out of 15,101 only 164
 children fell victims to the small-pox: in 1802, out of
 14,522 only 61 -. in 1803, the number out of 14,385 was
only 27 : and in 1904, out of 1-1,035, no more than 2.
   At one of the late meetings of the original Vaccine Pock
Institution, Broad-street, Golden- square, the subject of
the antivaccine publications was discussed ; and it was de
termined, that whatever unfortunate events might have
occurred, the practice at this institution was uniformly as
favourable, with regard to the fact of security against the
gmall-pox, as could be expected from variolous inoculation.
                                 A a 2                       But

 372                           Astronomy.                ,
 But in order     to provoke the communication of failures, and
 to give a further proof to the public, of confidence, the
 following certificate was directed to be offered to each
 inoculated patient, deeming it just to employ the small
 funds of the institution in disabusing the public with regard to
 cow-pock inoculation, if adverse satisfactory evidence can be
 procured, or,    if otherwise,   in establishing the new practice.
              Original Paccine Pock Institution, Broad-street,
                         Golden-Square, January 17, 1800.
    This is   to certify that E. C. aged two months, residing
 at  K. has   been duly vaccinated         at this institution as re
ported in our register at No.
    Be it known, that in case the aforesaid E. C. shall
take the small-pox, the same being satisfactorily proved on
examination of the disease by three or more of the medical
officers of the institution, he shall be entitled to the sum of
five guineas from the funds of the institution, on the pre
sentation of this certificate ; to be paid at the first quarterly
court subsequently to the application.
    Immediate notice must be sent to the secretary at the
institution on the first appearance of the small-pox.
    *#* Preserve this testimonial for the purpose of claim.
                                         GEORGE PEARSON, -M.D.
                                         THOMAS NELSON, M.D.
                                         JOHN Don ATT, Surgeon.
                              ASTRONOMY.
    Table   of  the   riglif Ascension and Declination of        Ceres
                    and Jti»o, for February 1806.
                          CERES.                     JUNO.
                     A.R.       Dec.  N.         A.R.         Dec.
                  h   in    *     o   /       h    m   s    o   /
      1806.
      Feb.  2     6 53 16        31     6    1    42 40    1   isS.
            5     6 51 44        31  11      1    41  32   1     1
            8     6  5O 28       31  16           4O 12    0   41
           11     6 49 32.       31  19           38 40    0   19
           14     6 48 52        31  22           37   0   0    4N.
          17      6 28 28        31  24           35 8     0   28
          2O      6 28 24        31  25           33 8     0   54
          23     6 28 40         31  26        1  31   4   1   21
          26     6 29       8    31  26      11   28 52    1   48
                   Pallas is loo low to be seen,
                                                               COMET.

                            Comet.—   II-loJ.                  373
                               COMET.
    On    the 22d of October, M. Huth, of Frankfort on the
Oder, at three o-clock in the morning, discovered a comet
in the hindermost foot of the Great Bear, betwixt the stars
y and
         £.   It could hardly be seen with the naked eye, but
was    very visible with a common telescope.          In size and
brightness     it resembled the great nebulous spot in Andro
 meda, except that it was almost circular.        At four A. M.
 its right ascension was about 166° 30', with 30° 40' de
clination north; and in an hour after, the former was 166°
32', and the latter 33° 32-. Its course is therefore southerly,
and somewhat westerly.          When magnified 350 times, it
did not show any nucleus.
    The same cornet was discovered on the following day by
professor Bode, at Berlin, between two and three o-clock in
the morning, at ®-- of the Great Bear. Kight ascension
 174° 25', and 270° 40- north declination.
                               WOOD.
    The following particulars are transcribed from a letter of
John Templeton, esq. published in the third volume of the
Transactions of the Dublin Society :
    "  It is said that there has been no timber found at Botany
Bay but what sinks in water. The Robinia Pseudo-Aca
cia, or locust-tree of North America, is esteemed beyond all
others for the durability of its timber, when exposed to the
weather, and for making trennels or wooden pins for fasten
ing the planks of ships.         Luckily in light soils it thrives
well in Ireland, and sends forth suckers by which it is easily
propagated.        It grows with great quickness ; 1 have had
some, which made shoots five and six feet in a season, in
a sandy soil.       They are not injured by our severest frosts ;
but care must be taken to place them in such situations as
that they will not be exposed to high winds, which often
break their branches.
    The Fagus Castanea, or sweet chesnut, is among our
most beautiful trees of quick growth in a sandy or light
loamy soil.       There are four on my farm of considerable
size ; one is above eleven feet in girl, growing rapidly ; and
yet there is reason to believe them about a hundred years
old.     The timber is esteemed the best of European growth,
 for a great variety of uses.     In the southern parts it is pre
ferred for wine casks, as it is not apt to warp or shrink.
In England it is reckoned the best t-<ir hop- poles, as even
young poles stand wet and dry better than any other.            Its
durability has been pretty well determined by an experiment
related in Young-s Annals of Agriculture.
    " Inch and half planks of trees from thirty to forty-five
                                A  a 3                       years

374       Medical and Chemical Lectures. — Patents,
years growth, after ten years standing in the weather, were
examined, and found in the following state and condition :
      Cedar, perfectly sound.
     Larch, the    heart sound, but sap quite decayed.
     Spruce fir, sound.
     Silver fir, in decay.
     Scotch fir, much decayed.
      Pinaster, quite rotten.
     Chesnut, perfectly sound.
     Abele, sound.
     Beech, sound.
     Walnut, in decay.
     Sycamore, much decayed.
     Birch, quite rotten.
                 Young-s Annals of Agriculture, vol.vi. 255.
   A piece of a branch cutoff, and put in as agate-post
twenty-five years ago, is yet perfectly sound, even at the
surface of the ground, a time that, I believe, would have
rotted the best oak. Another property which recommends
cbesnut is, that it stains well, with a decoction of logwood
and Brazil-wood, with alum water, varying the proportions
at will.   I have imitated mahogany so as to deceive most
people.
             MEDICAL AND CHEMICAL LECTURES.
   On Thursday, February 6th, a Course of Lectures on
Physic and Chemistry will recommence at the Laboratory,
Whitcomb-street, Leicester-square, at the usual morning
hours, by George Pearson, M.D. F.R.S. &c.
          LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
   To Joseph Fletcher, of Horsley, in the county of Derby,
needle-maker; for a machine for raising water.      Dated Ja
nuary 23,   1606.
   To George Barton Alcock, of the city of Kilkenny, in
that part of the united kingdom of Great Britain and Ire
land called Ireland; for certain improvements in lamps.
Dated January 22.
   To John Dobbs Davies, of New Compton-strret, in the
county of Middlesex, gentleman ; for a saddle bar on an
improved construction, which he denominates the motion
saddle bar. Dated January 22.
   To Robert Berrimen, of Speen, in the county of Berks,
wheelwright; for a machine for preparing land for the
reception of seed, which he is confident will prove of the
utmost advantage to agriculturists in sowing corn, in pro
ducing a regular and more abundant crop, and in enabling
the farmer, at an easier rate, to keep his land free from all
kinds of weeds.     Dated January 22.
                                                    METEOR

                                            Meteorology.                                                            375
                             meteorological table,
                         Bv Mb. Carev, of the Strand,
                                       For January        1806.
                          Tin rmom      :ter.
                                                              Degrees of Dry
                                                Height of
                                                                                    Hygrometer.
Days of the              u =      0
    Month.               °'S      8
                                                the Barom.
                                                                      by
                                                                                                         Weather.
                    P         0
                                                              ness    Leslie's
                                                  Inches.
                         00   "
    Dec.    27           34°      40°     32°    29•87                    7°                      Fair
            28            34      40      44       •80                                            Rain
                                                                        5 5 0 0 0
            29 47                 51      49        •82                                           Rain
            30 51                 52      53        •89                                           Rain
            31            53      53      49        •82                                           Cloudy
     Jan.    1           43       43      48        •70                                           Cloudy
                          36      39      35        •80                                           Fair
             6 5 4 3 2
                                                                         8
                          35      38      32        •82                                           Fair
                          33      41                •80                 0 6                       Rain
                                          49
                          40      44      49        •88               12                          Fair
                          49      53      46        •85                  9                        Cloudy
                          39      48      48     30.00                  0                         Rain
             8 7                                                     20                           Fair
                          47      49      38     29.50
             9            39      44      40        •57               18                          Fair
             10           36      41      35     28'72                17                          Fair;    a   storm
                                                                                                    in   the morn
.
                                                                                                   ing, with
1                                                                 m
                                                                                                   thunder
             11           37      41      36     29.10               20                           Fair
             12           36      39      36     28.65                 0                          Rain
             13           36      39      33     29.65               10                           Fair
             14           40      43      39       •60               12                           Fair
             15          41       45      45       •49               22                           Fair
             16           50      46      40        •01                0                          Stormy
             17           36      44      33        •70              21                           Fair
             18           38      44      49        •85                0                          Rain
             19           43      49      44        •68              24                           Fair
            20            51      54      47        •52                0                          Rain
            21            50      55      46        •82              15                           Fair
            22            49      53      46        •92                 7                         Cloudy
            23            59      50      47        •90              23                           Cloudy
            24            48      51      40        •52             21                            Fair
            25            39      44      37        •60             24                            Fair
            86 35                 41      36        •25                 4                         Cloudy
                         N. B. The barometer's height        is   taken at noon.

                                       C    376      ]
                       INDEX to VOL. XXIII.
   ACARUS. On a variety of, 3                  Astronomy,        93, 190, 284, 372
   Achard's method of extracting               Atmosphere.     On constitution of,
      sugar from beet root,              14      . .                             349
                                                         ,
   Acid, boracie. Its utility in ana           Azimuth     compass.  Patent for, 95
      lyses,                           146
  ——.        A  new one,               128     Barlow's specific for tinea        ca
  —— ,       carbonic.   Medicinal     use        pitis,                           69
     of,                                68     Barometer.      Variation   of,    be
  ¦¦      , fluoric.   Found in animal            tween the tropics,             289
     matters,                         264      Baronia's Galvanic pile,          283
  — — — , gallic.    To  prepare,              Barton on North American alli
                                        74
  .    . , muriatic.     Production of,           gator,                         ^3
                               257, 28J       BarueVs apparatus for impreg
 «       , nitric.   Action of, on ani            nating gases,                 317
     mal substances,           2 c 5, 26
                                      3       Barytes. Sulphuret of, to de
         , oxy.muriatic.     Action of,           compose,                        72
     on red oxide,                      6/    Batavian Societv,                 368
         , phosphorous.      Action of,       Berriman's patent,                374
     on mercury,                        c6    Beet.root. To extract sugar from,
 Agriculture,                     16, 26
                                                                                  14
 Alcock's patent,                     374     Bevis. ,(Dr.) Life of,            247
 Alligator, North American. On,               Bile. Experiments on,             330
                                      143     Biography,               76, 94, 247
 Alkaline sulphurets.       On decom         Blight. On,                        349
    posing,                            70     Bombay     Society,               187
 Alum. To prepare, from pyrites               Boots. New,                282,360
    and clay,                          6y    Braamcamp on mercury,                56
Angora. Goats of,                      97    Brandt     cm guaiacum,     260, 303
Animal matters. Action of nitric             British Institution for promoting
    acid on, 355, 326; fluoric                   the Fine Arts,                272
    acid found in,                   2^4     Brown's patent,                   287
Annoss's patent,                     287     Bucholz on decomposing muriate
Antimony a medicine for hogs,                   of tin, 112; on nickel and
                                       *4       cobalt,                        193
Antiquaries.         Society  of, 184,       Byrne, the engraver.       Death of,
                              270, 366                                          94
Aptera. On a genus of,                  3
Aquatinia engraving. On,             130     Calculous concretions.     On,   199,
Armour. Patent for,                  191                                       29$
                                                                         Candles.

                              INDEX.                                      577
Candles.     Patent for,           95   Dize     on  decomposing "sulphu-
Carlisle on muscular motion, 113,          rets,                            70
   2 1 7 ; on muscles of fishes, 183    Dropsy. Cure for,                 286
Carey's meteorological tables,          Dveing ivool. Roard on,             42
                  96, 192,288,375       Dyeing. Process for,              228
Carriages. Patent for improving,
                                  191   Earthquake at Naples,               90
Cart-wright on salt as a manure,        Egan on gravelly concretions,
   and a condiment for animals,                                     »99. 29S
                                    )6  Enamel colours. Patent for, 287
Cel,ic Academy, Paris,            186
Ceres. On the planet,       93,  1 90,  Firminger. Comet discovered b
                            z84>3'a
                                                                To   remove,
                                                                            5
Ceruse.    Preparation of,          94  Fire-damp in mines.
Cbancey on goats of Angora, 97                                             261
Charles's machine for levelling         Fishes. On muscles of,             183
   land,                          309   Fletcher's patent,                 374.
Chemico-Galvanic observations,          Fiint's patent,                    IJJ1
                                  129   Fourcroy on action of nitric      acid
Choak.damps       in mines.   To re        on animal matters, 2jj,         326
   move,                          261   Fourcroy on blighted corn,         346
Cloths. Patent for,               287   French National Institute,         184
ClubVs patent,                      95
Cobalj.       To obtain pure, 145 ;     Gall.nuts. Experiments on, 74
   to separate, from nickel, 193        Gait   on commercial policy, 1 04
Colours which resist acids,           9 Galvanism. Ritter's discoveries
Comet seen,           269, 285, 373         in, 51, 54J Oersted on, 129 ;
Commercial policy. On,             104      production of muriates by,
Copal varnish. A useful,                    257 ; pile of vegetable
                                    13                                   mat
 Cordage. Patents,                 191      ters,                          283
Corn. On blighted,                346   Gaseous oxide    of carbon.    Appa
 Cotton. To dye, red,              228      ratus for,                     317
 Cows.      Surgical operation on,      Gases in atmospheric air.      On,
    308; experiments on fatten                                             349
    ing,
 Curr's patent,
                                    2
                                   191
                                      J
                                        —  —
                                        Gay.Lussac on fluoric acid, 264
                                                  — on the torpedo, 356
 Cutting instrument made of stone,      Germination.      A  prize question,
                                   270                                      370
                                        Gravitation has an influence on
 Dalton on constitution of the               vegetation,                   362
    atmosphere,                    349   Gravelly concretions.      On, I99,
 Davies's patent,                  374                                      295
 Davy on analysis of soils, 26 ;         Gregorian calendar restored in
    on analysing stones,           146
                                             France,                          87
 Deaths,                                 Guaiacum.    On, 369   ; analysis   of,
                                     94
 Decline cured by vital air,       2 12                                     364
 Desormeaux's patent,               9J   Gums.      Experiment on,          259
 Dispensaries.      On the utility of,   Gymnotus.     Electric power of,
                                   312                                     JS7
            I                                                        Harlop's

J7«                          INDEX.
Hartop's patent,               19 r   Knight on roots and germs of
HaUbett on artificial tannin, 173,      plants,               364
                        3201365
Haujfman's colour for' making         Lace-net.    Patent for ornament
  piece goods, 8 ; varnish for           ing.                      95
  culinary vessels,           13      Lafons's patent,            287
Heart. Malformation of the, 269       Lamps.   Patent for certain im
Herpes cured,                68          provements in,           374
Herubel on figure of Saturn,          Lampadius on preparing alum,
   $47 ; on solar system,   230                                r
                                                                             6*
Hogs. Experiments on fattening,       Land.   Patent machine for pre
   23; remedy for diseases of,          paring    for the |reception of
                                                  it
                                24      seed,                      374
                                                   _
HoIJen's machine for shoe-ma          Lane on oxides of iron,      253
  kers,                        102    Lead. On decomposing alkaline
Hope's experiments on contrac           sulphuret8 by,              70
  tion of water by heat,     153      Learned Societies, 80, 182, 268,
Hops. On preserving,        1 89
                                                                   363
Horsburgb on variation of baro        Levelling land. Machine for, 309
  meter between the tropics,          Linen cloth. Colour for marking,
                              289
Household furniture. Patent, 287      Literary and Philosophical Societv,
Huddart's patent,             191        Newcastle,                   81
Human body, constituent parte   of.   Literary Society, Manilla,     186
  Prize question,            369
Humboldt on the torpedo,      356     Machlachlan on mines,          Sec.    of
Hutcbings's patent,            95       East Indies,                        227
Hyper.oiygenated muriate of mer       Macbnaughtan's patent,        9;
  cury.   On,                  62     Magnetism. On,               253
                                      Manganese.    Colours from,           9;
Ibis. Skeleton of,            191       has less affinity Than tin for
Imperial Academy     ofSciences,        oxygen, 13; to decompose
    Petersburgh,             85         alkaline sulphurets by,     70
Indigo. Experiments on,     25 J      Mangle. Patent for,           95
Inflammable suhtance. A new,          Manufactures of India. On, 227
                             255      Margets, George. Life of,     76
Ingram's patent,             287      Medicine,            68, 69, 212
Iron deprived of oxygen by tin,       Miller's patent,             191
    12;   magnetic attraction of      Mercury. Experiments on, 36
    oxides of,               253      Metal. A new one,             13   2
 Iron, bar, &c. Patent for, 191       Meteorological tables,       96,   192,
                                                                   288,37*
Juno. The planet, 190, 284, 37a       Microscopical remarks,                 3
                                      Mil,on's patent,
                                                                191
Kentish's patent,           191       Mines. On the East India, 227
Klaprotb the chemist, not dead,       Muriate     of   tin.   Decomposition
   as reported,              95         of,                                 HZ
Klaprotb, professor   jurispru
                      of              Muriates,    Production       of, 257,
   dence. Death of,          95                                          28J
                                                                   Muscular

                                   INDEX.                                       3 79
Muscular motion. On, 113,217               Royal Society,           182, 268, 360,
Museum Alexandrinum,      368                                                   363
Navigation.      Patent   respecting,      Saddle bar.  Patent for one on an
                                 287         improved construction,      374
Nickel. To separate,        from co        5a//. Its uses as   manure, and
                                                                    a
   balt, 193 ; pure, a noble me                acondiment for animals,    16
   tal,                      137           Saturn. On the singular figure
Nyren's patent,               95              of,                        147
                                           Saverein, engineer. Death of,
Oersted's acldulation of sulphate                                                  95
  of potash,   80 ; Galvanic ob            Scrophula.          On royal cure of,
  servations,                 129                                               271
                                           Shoe-maiers.          Machine for,   102
Patents. List of New,        9;,   191,    Smut        of -wheat. On,           332
                      287,374              Smutty wheal.   On chemical na
Pallas. On the planet, 93, 284,              ture of,                  346
                            .37*
                                           Snart on   variety of the genus
                                                          a
Peel on composition of muriatic                acarus,                               3
   acid, potash, and soda,   257           Societies. Learned, 80, 182, 363
Phosphorus.   Action of, on mer            Soda.  Production of,        257
   cury,                      60           Soils. On analysis of,         26
Polarity communicated by Gal               Siqueira.Oliva on mercury,     56
   vanism,                    51           Steam.engine.   Patents for, 123,
Plants. Prize question respect                                             »9'.33J
                                           o       n
   ing,                 369, 370           Steers patent,                       28
                                                                                 j
Po'loci en a surgical operation            Stones.  On analysing,      146
   on a cow,                 308           Stove grate. Patent for,     95.
Potash. Production of,       257           Sugar from beet-root,        14
Potatoes, frozen. A query, 286             S:igar. Patent for manufactur
Prize  questions,   184, 368                  ing, 287  on history of, 367
                                                            ;
Publications, New,  282,360                Sulphate       of   potash.   Acidulation
Pumps. Patent for working,                     of,                            80
                                    287    Sulpburets.      On decomposing, 70
Pyrites applied to production of           San.         On direction and velocity
  alum,                       65             of,                                230
                                           Syed's patent,                   <
                                                                                     9J
Red. To dye cotton,         2:8
Richter's process for preparing            Tables and furniture.           Patent,
         acid, 74 ; on pure nic.                                                287
      el,
  fallic                                   Tannin.    Experiments on,           j
  .                                 137                                         7    ;
Rink on     new acid,
             a                      128      on artificial,   173, 320, 36;
Ritter's Galvanic discoveries,       51,   Taunton on dispensaries,      312
                                           Tea    cure for dropsy,
                                                   a                     286
Roard on steeping and dyeing               Templetons remarks on various
                                                                                          *
  wool,                              42      kinds of timber,            373
Rose on      a   new   vegetable    sub    Thornton on pneumatic medi
   stance,                          142      cine,                  68, 212
Royal Academy,                      372    Tin. Strong affinity of, for oxy
Royal Institution,                   80      gen,                                  1
                                                                                   2
                                                                       Tinea

3&>                           INDEX.
Tinea capitis. Cure for,          69    Water. On contraction of, by
Torpedo. Experiments on,        356        heat, 153; curious experi
Torpidity. On,            1 43, 18;        ments on,                     257
Tromtdorff   on  pure cobalt,  145 ;    Water. Patent for a machine for
   on a new metal,              213        raising,                      374
Trotter's patent,                191    Wheat, smuttv. To cleanse, 332
Trotttr on damps in mines, 261          Wheat, blighted.     Chemical na
                                           ture of,                      346
Urine.   Experiments on,        331     Wood. Templeton's remarks ou,
                                                                         373
Vaccination,          81, 187,371       Wool.    On steeping and dyeing,
Famish for culinary vessels, 13                                           42
Vauquelin on action of nitric           Wool of Aigwa goats. On, 97
   acid on animal matters, 255,         M'eolf's steam.engine,      123, 335
   326; experiments      on   gums,     Wyke's patent,                   287
                                259
Vauquelin on blighted corn, 346         Zink.   On  malleable,       93, 282
Vegetable substance.   A new, 142
                ESD OF THE TWENTY.THIRD VOLUME.
          Printed by R. Taylor and Co., 38, Shoe Lane Fleet Street.



3
N
  I


                       I. .
                      i
                    I
ii liiiiiiiiftiiiiiiiiir;!!1


j*'r

                                 Thdo. My. PI. V. VoLXmi .
Slcdcton of covlbis, from w Manny at Tfu&cs  .


             Jld7. ILolden's Idachi/ie for Shoe makers.
I'TarUy del.
                                                        ^'t>




                       Philo. Mag.   PL  VI1L Vol. XXIII.
  Fig.  3.
I    -.a.
                                           Fuf.4.
                     lyra
                                          i ^ildeharan,
                                         m   CapeU/i
                    Siriuj   a-'-
           Procyorv        JYocyon.   m
                          slrctiirus  m. a
                                              Zoivry .rixjp.
                                                             V


.2L

                                                J'hilo Ma4.rt.iV0l.SXIU
   Apparatus  tor preparing Gaseous Oxide of Carton .
                     (*%
                                                             U
                      (r               )Sd
      'T     *<0SS
   M
                       Q           J)
     yb::r
                       D
                                                        L&wrv srzilp.
:"



ALEX* ATTBERT ESQ* F.B..S.
    FuHisheJ hvATMoeh i June iS*t '.

j                                       THE
  PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE:                                                             ..,
                                 COMPREHENDING
          THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF SCIENCE,
«
                   THE LIBERAL AND FINE ARTS,
                AGRICULTURE, MANUFACTURES,
                                          AND
                                 COMMERCE.
                  BY ALEXANDER TILLOCH,
  HONORARY MEMBER OF THE ROYAL IRISH ACADEMY,                          &C.  8CC.  &C.
     " Nee aranearum sane textus ideo melior quia ex se fila gignunt, nee noster
  vilior quia ex alienis libamus ut apes." Just. Lips. Monti. Petit, lib. i. cap. i.
                                  VOL. XXIV.
           Far  FEBRUARY,          MARCH, APRIL,          and  MAY      1806.
                                    LONDON:
               Printed by R. Taylor and Co., 38, Shoe Lane, Fleet Street:
      And sold by Messrs. Richardson; Cadell           and Davies;     Longman,
          Hurst, Rees, and Orme; Svmonds;             Murrav;      Hiqblet    ;
              Vernor and Hood; Harding; London: Bill                  and
                    Ekadfute, Edinburgh; Brash and Reid, and
                          D. Nevin, Glasgow;     and Gilbert
                                 and Hodoes, Dublin.
                                         1806.

#'
                     C O N T E N T                 S
                               OF THE
    TWENTY-FOURTH                               VOLUME.
I. yj NALYSIS of        the Chromate     of Iron from     the Ouralian
    Mountains    in Siberia.    By A. LAUGIER             . .    Page 3
II.   On the Tendency     of  Elastic   Fluids   to Diffusion through
   each other.     By JOHN D .ALTON                                     8
III.    On tlie Absorption    of Gases    ly Water and other          Li
   quids.     By JOHN DALTON                                           15
IV.   An Experimental Inquiry into           the Nature     of Gravelly
   and Calculous Concretions         in  the Human       Subject ; and
   Ike   Effects   of Alkaline and Acid Substances on them,
   m and out      of the Body.        By THOMAS EGAN, M.D.
   M.R.I. A                                                            25
V.   The Syphon applied to the Worm Tub as a Refrigerator;
   or, A Plan for conveying Water in any Quantity to a
   Worm Tub of the largest Dimensions,               if perfectly Air
   tight.     By ALEXANDER JOHNSTON, Engineer                    . .   37
VI.   Description   of a Cometarium invented        ly Ez. WALKER,
   Esq                                               ,                 37
VII. A     Description   of a Property    of   Caoutchouc,    or Indian
   Rubber; with some Reflections on tlie Cause of tfie Elas
   ticity of this Substance.     In a Letter to Dr. HOLME 39
VIII.    Remarks on Urine, and the Prognostics which are de
   rived from it. BIJ Dr. COLLENBUCH                                  44
IX. Twenty-sixth        Communication from          Dr. THORNTON,
                                             -
   relative to Pneumatic Medicine                                     47
X.    On  a new  Black Dye to be applied to all Kinds of Linens           ,
   and Stuff-s.    By M. HERMBSTADT, of Berlin                   . .  49
                                                                           -
XI. New Experiments          on  the Respiration       of Atmospheric
   Vol.   24.  No, 96. May     1806.       a                         Air,

                          CONTENTS.
  Air,  chiefly with respect     to the Absorption    of Azote and
  the  Respiration    of  Gaseous     Oxide  of Azote.      By Pro
 fessor PFAFF, of Kiel                                            51
XII. Additional Experiments and Remarks on an artificial
  Substance which possesses llie principal characteristic Pro
  perties of Tannin.         By CHARLES HATCHETT, Esq.
  F.R.S                     .     ..   ..                          58
XIII.   On the Oxides    of Gold, Tin, and other Metals;        with
  Hints for extending their Uses in Dyeing. Communicated
  in a Letter to M. BEKTHOLLET ly M. JOHN MICHAEL
  HAUSSMAN                                                         69
XIV.    On the  partial Fusion of Metals ly       the  Electric Dis
   charge.    By a Correspondent                                   73
XV. On the Reproduction of Buds. By THOMAS ANDREW
   KNIGHT, Esq. F.R.S. In a Letter to the Right Hen.
   Sir JOSEPH BANKS, K.B. P.R.S.                ..      i. .. 75
XVI. Proceedings of Learned Societies                              81
XVII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles .. ..91
XVIII. On the Possibility of naturalizing the Cackemire
   Goat of India to the Climate of Europe : in a Letter from
   Dr. DE CARRO, of Vienna^ to Professor PICTET, of Ge
   neva                                                            97
XIX. An      Essay   on the Theory      of  mired    Gases,  and the
   State   of  Heater   m the Atmosphere.          By     Mr. JOHN
   (Soii!! I                                                     1Q3
XX. An      experimental Inquiry into the Nature of Gravelly
   and Calculous Concretions in the Human Subject ; and the
   Effects, of Alkaline and Acid Substances on them, in and
   out of the Body.      By THOMAS EGAN,         M.D. M.R.I. A.
                                                                  114
XXI.     Extract of    a  Memoir of Messrs.         FOUKCROY     and
   VAUUUELIN upon         Guano,     the natural    Manure of the
    South Sea Islands near      the Coast   of Peru.     Read before
   the National Institute.      Drawn up ly A. LAUGIER 126
XXII. Analysis of Birdlime. By M. BOUILLON-LA-
    GRANGE      . *                                               131
XXITI. On a new Varnish           for  Wood.     By   M. PARMEN-
    TIER                                                          138
XXIV.      Account   of a  Series   of Experiments, showing      -tke
                                                              Effecti

                            CONTENTS.
  Effects of Compression in modifying the Action of Heat.
  By Sir JAMES HALL, Bart. F. R. S. Edin                            140
XXV.     Additional Experiments           and Remarks on an arti
 ficial  Substance    which possesses the principal characteristic
  Properties     of  Tannin.     By CHARLES HATCHBTT, Esq.
  F.R.S                                                             155
XXVI. A simple         and accurate Mode      of constructing Gaso
  meters   for Purposes      where   uniform Pressure is essential,
  ly the Application of the Hydrostatic Regulator. By
  JOSEPH STEEVENS, Esq                                              1(53
XXVII. Process employed to obtain a Black Liquid, invented
  ly Mr. CLARKE,           a/t Englishman, and introduced into
  Commerce ; its Use in marking          Linen in a solid and dura
  ble  Manner, and its Application for printing Cottons or
  Stuffs.     By M. HERMBSTADT, of Berlin               .. .. 165
XXVIII. Letter of Messrs. CIONI and PETRINI to Pro
 fessor PACCHIANI, of Pisa, on the supposed Production of
  Muriatic Acid ly Galvanism                                        167
XXIX.      On     the  Decomposition     of Water ly Galvanism.
  By JOHN CUTHBERTSON, Esq                                          170
XXX.     Notice of Experiments made ly the Galvanic Society
  of Paris on the Discovery announced ly M. PACCHIANI
  of the Composition of the Muriatic Acid             . .   . .     1 72
XXXI. Extract of a new Letter of Dr. FRANCIS PAC
  CHIANI, Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Univer
  sity of Pisa, to M. FABRONI, upon the Composition of
  the  Muriatic Acid                                    ..   ..     176
XXXII.      Proceedings    of Learned Societies      ..     .. 180
XXXIII.      Intelligence   and   Miscellaneous Articles     .. 188
XXXIV.       Account of a Series of Experiments, showing the
   Effects   of  Compression    in modifying   the Action  of Heat.
   By Sir JAMES HAH, Bart. F.R.S. Edin.                    ..       193
XXXV. A         new   Fact in Galvanism.        Communicated       ly a
   Correspondent                                                    203
XXXVI.      On Vaccination.       An Examination of several of the
   Mis-statements       of  Dr.  ROWXET.       By Mr. J. J. HAW
   KINS, of Islington                                               204
XXXVII.        On the Method      of extracting Spirits from Po
                                                                tatoes.

                          CONTENTS.
 tatoes.     By  M. Germain,         Chemist     to the  Military Hos
 pital   at Hanau                                                    209
XXXVIII.      Means   of destroying the Insects and Caterpillars
  which attack Fruit Trees.          By Madame Gaijon           Dufour
                                                                     213
XXXIX.      Experiments      upon    the    Gaseous   Oxide    of Azote,
 made at a Meeting       of  Amateurs,       of  Toulouse.     Described
  by   M. Dispan,     Professor     of Chemistry in the Institution
  of  that City                                                      215
XL.    Report   of  Cases in the Finsbury Dispensary , from
  the   1st  of January    to the 31st of March 1806.                 By
 John      Taunton, Esq. Surgeon to the City and Fins
  bury Dispensaries,    an.d  Lecturer on Anatomy,          Physiology,
  and Surgery                                                        221
XLI.    On the Oxidation     of Metals in general, and particu
  larly  the  Oxidation of Iron. Read in the French National
  Institute by M. Thenard              . .                           223
XLII. On the Combination             of Antimony with Tin.            By
 M. Thenard                                                          236
XLIII.    Abridgment    of certain Papers written          on the appa
 rent Magnitude of the horizontal Moon, and published at
 sundry Times. To which are added, new Experiments to
 prove the Truth of the Author's Tlieory, and to exhibit a
 clear Representation     of   the Phenomenon on optical           Prin
 ciples.    By Ez. Walker, Esq                                       240
XLIV.     Extract of a Letter from          M. Leopold dk Buch,
 of Milan, to Professor Pictet, of Genera, on the Pro
  duction of Muriatic Acid and Soda by the Galvanic De
  composition of Water          . .     . .    ,                     244
XLV. Twenty -seventh Communication from Dr. Thorn
  ton, relative to Pneumatic Medicine                                246
XLVI.     Twenty-eighth     Communication on Pneumatic Medi
  cine,  sent by   Dr. Thorntos,/cot Mr.                JIill,  Surgeon
                                                                     247
XLVIL      On the Electrogene o/"Schmidt. By Count              Stern
 berg,      Vice.president of the Electoral Regency              of Ra-
  tisbon                                                             25,0
XLVIII.     Letter of M. Orsted, Professor of Philosophy               at .
                                                           Copenhagen,

                             CONTENTS.
    Copenhagen, to Professor       Pictet of         Geneva,        upon Sono
    rous Vibrations                                                       .    25 1
 XLIX.       On the Use    of the Sutures in the Skulls                of Ani
    mals.    By   Mr. B. Gibson          . .     . .                           256
 L.   On the Existence      of Phosphate of Magnesia in Bones.
    By M. Fourcrov                                        .     . .     . .    262
'LI.   Notices respecting Neiu Books                                           265
 LII. Proceedings of Learned Societies ..                      ..       ..     271
 LIII. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles ..                       ..     282
 LIV.   On Transit Instruments.        By Ez.        Walker,         Esq.      289
 LV,    Account     of a   Series   of Experiments, showing the
    Effects of Compression       in modifying the Act ion of Heat,
    By Sir James Hall,          Bart. F.R.S. Edin.                    . .      291
 LVL     Observations     and Advices        respecting       Improvements
    compatible    with  the quickest. Manufacture             of Muscovado
    Sugar,    and conducive to the Melioration of the Rum.                      By
    Brvan Higgins, M.D.                . .       . .    . .     .  j    . .    308
 LVII.    Letter of M. Tardv de La Brossv                         to Professor
    Pictet, of Geneva, upon the Experiments of Mr. Bid-
    dle, relative to tlie Density of frozen Mercury . . 322
 LVIII.    Analysis of the sulphuretted Oxide of Manganese of
    Naygag.       By M. Vauciuelin               . .    . ,     . .     . .    324
 LTX. Memoir on the Eremophilus and Astroblepus, two new
     Genera of the Order of Apodes. By M. de Humboldt
                                                                               329
 LX.    Memoir     on a new Species       of  Pimelodus        thrown       out  of
     the Volcanoes in the Kingdom of Quito ; ivilh some
    Particulars respecting the Volcanoes of the Andes.                          By
    M. de Humboldt                                                             333
 LXI.    Memoir     on a new Species         of   Monkey, found in the
    eastern   Declivity of the Andes.         By     M. de Humboldt
                                                                               339
 LXII.    Analysis of    the  Hot Springs      at    Bath.        By   Mr. Ri
    chard Phillips, Member of                the Askesian           and     of  the
                                                            '
    British Mineralogical      Societies      . .     . .      . .      . .    342
 LXIII.     Proceedings   of Learned     Societies                             361
 LXIV.     Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles                    . .      366
                                                                             THE


                          -
                                          THE
     PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE.
1.   Analysis of the Chromate of Iron from the Ouralian
          Mountains in Siberia. By A. LAUGIKR*.
JV1. PONTIKR,             in    a tour    made through the department                of
Var, in      the year 7, found, near                La Bastide de la Cassade, a
mineral,        which he sent to the                Council of Mines under the
name      of    blende,        and    which        M.
                                                   Tassaert first discovered
to be a combination              of   oh-romic acid and oxide of iron.
     His opinion   afterwards confirmed by M. Vauquelin
                       was
in the tenth volume of the Journal de Mines ; where he at
the same time announced the proportions of chrome and
iron, together with             the presence         of alumine and silica.
     M.   Meder       has       since found in Siberia, in the Ouralian
-mountains, on the banks of the Wiasga, a substance very
similar to the mineral of Var. A specimen of this having
been given to me by M. Steinacher,       member of the
corporation of apothecaries of Paris, who had received it
from count Mussin Puschkin, counsellor of the mines of
Russia,        I conceived it might                be useful    to examine    it,   and
compare the results of my examination with the analysis of
the mineral of Var published     M. Vauquelin, fully per
                                                    by
suaded that my labours would be rewarded with some ad
vantage.
                                 Physical Properties.
     Although       the mineral          of Siberia       be very similar in ap
pearance        to that        of Var,        an    atttentive examination of        it
would      lead     us to suspect,             that in the first       of   these the
metal     is   purer and        more abundant                than in the second;     its
               * From Aimalu dt Muslim d-llistoirt Xatavllt, No. 95.
Vol.   24.     No. 93. Feb.           1806.          A   2                   fracture

4.                Analysis of the Chromat^of Iron
fracture is lamellar,      and not granulated ; its       metallic bril
liancy    is more vivid,     and   it evidently contains a smaller
admixture of earthy matters. The specimen in my pos--
 ses3ion shows spots of green on some parts of its surface,
 which     are  discovered to be oxide of chrome.             The spe
 cific gravity of the     two  also serves to support my conjecture
 regarding them.         That of my specimen is 4-0579, while
 the specific gravity of the mineral of Var is only 4-0326.
This difference in weight necessarily makes a difference iu
 the proportions of the metallic part of the two chromates ;
 and,    as  we   shall presently 8ee, the analysis agrees com
 pletely with this physical property.
                        Chemical Examination,
     1.  When strongly calcined it       loses about    I-100th part of
 its weight,    and   acquires a    reddish brown colour.        Having
 placed    100 parts   of this mineral reduced        to an impalpable
powder, together with 30O parts of pure potash, in a cruci
ble of platina, I exposed the whole to a strong heat.                The
mass, when removed from the fire, and nearly cooled, was
in part of a green and in part of an orange colour.                  The
water which I added to it assumed a rich citron yellow,
exactly similar to the colour of chromate of potash. When
the mass no longer gave       a  tinge to distilled water,    I digested
it in very weak muriatic        acid, with the intention       of  sepa
rating what part of the oxide of iron had been set free by
the action of the potash, without touching, in any degree,
the chromate of iron, which was still undecomposed.                      I
now     washed the remaining substance again, till the water
came off insipid, and a second time melted it with a portion
of pure potash.
    In this way I     heated the mineral      six different times,    al
ternately with potash and muriatic acid ; setting aside the
alkaline and acid solutions, that I might examine them se
parately.
    The residuum        consisted    of   a  brownish     gray matter,
-weighing 0-9O : muriatic acid took up from it a little iron,
and the remainder was completely dissolved in nitro-muriatic
                                                                    acid.

                  from   the Ouralian Mountains                    in Siberia.                   5
    acid.        This solution,        which         was     of   a   reddish brown co
    lour,      let fall a yellow precipitate ou the addition                         of muriate
    of ammonia, and            a   deep red precipitate by the muriate                          of
    tin at the minimum of oxidation: it suffered no precipita
    tion by prussiate of potash, and formed with soda a triple
    salt of a beautiful red colour.  It was therefore no other
    than a portion of platina which had been separated from
-
    the crucible by the six successive                 manipulations ; and there
    was every        reason    to believe          that the alkali and acid had
    completely dissolved the constituent ingredients of the mi
    neral in question.
                    Examination of the Alkaline Solution.
          2. This solution had            a verybeautiful deep yellow colour.
    The last portions          of       the solution had a greenish tinge,
    which        disappeared       on     spontaneous deposition of a
                                           the
    brown substance            in small quantity, which I discovered to
    be oxide  of manganese. I poured, by degrees, into the so
    lution, evaporated to one-half its former bulk, such a quan
    tity of nitric acid as saturated the caustic portion of alkali ;
    and a precipitate fell to the bottom, which I collected upon
    a filter, then washed           it,   and submitted            it   to calcination.          It
    weighed      hundredth parts, and was set aside for future
                  1
                  1
    examination.
      The addition of     slight excess of nitric acid produced
                                   a
    no precipitation but merely                      a   violent        effervescence,          and
    caused the solution to assume                        a   very deep orange red co
    lour.       When      evaporated       to dryness         it   left    a   sal-uu-   residuum
    of     a   fine yellow colour,         which dissolved completely in wa
    ter   :    the solution, when acidulated        with nitric acid, furnished
     by              of mercury
            the nitrate            red precipitate, which after
                                                 a
    being  dried in the air weighed 430 parts   and these  cal         ;                   by
    cination were reduced to 52 hundredth parts of an oxide of
    chrome, having  beautiful green colour.
                           a
      3. The matter precipitated in No.      the nitric aciJ       2      by
    was melted with three parts of caustic potash   and the                         ;
    mass, when mixed with water, dissolved completely in
    muriatic acid,          The solution, when                    evaporated         to dryness,
                                             A3                                                 left

  6                 Analysis,  of the Ckromate of Iron
  left a  residue, a part of which was insoluble in water, and
  weighed, after calcination, only one-half part : it consisted
  of a mixture of silica    and oxide of iron.    1 now poured into
  the water which contained the soluble portion of the resi
  duum a quantity of ammonia ; and a white flocculent pre
  cipitate appeared, which formed with the water a jelly, and
  exhibited all the characters of alumine : it weighed 10 hun
  dredth parts and     a half.
      From these experiments on the alkaline solution we may
   conclude that it contained chrome, alumine, a little oxide
  of manganese, together with some particles of iron              and
  Silica.
               Examination of     the Muriatic Solution.
     4. The colour     of this solution, which contained    an excess
  of acid, was reddish yellow. On the addition of a solution
  of caustic potash a flocculent matter of a brownish red se
  parated,    which, when Washed and mixed with the small
  quantity of oxide of iron already obtained, both from the
  alkaline solution and from the residue, discovered to be pla-
 tina, weighed, after being calcined, 34 hundredth parts.
     The solution continued still coloured after the separation
 of   the oxide    of iron, although the re-agents indicated the
 presence of no chrome : I was therefore convinced that it
 owed its tinge to a small quantity of platina.          The excess
 of caustic potash which I had added contained some par
 ticles of alumine, and these I separated hy means of mu
 riate of ammonia.
     5. With a view to ascertain the purity of the oxide of
Iron which had the usual colour and appearance of this
 oxide,    I melted  it again with pure potash : but water, when
 added to the mixture, received no tinge, and the re-agents
 indicated the presence of no foreign substance.           We must
 therefore infer      that the very weak muriatic acid which        I
 made use     of dissolved nothing hut    the oxide of iron.
                                                               From

              from     the Ouralian       Mountains in Siberia.                                 1
  From       the    aboveanalysis it appears that the chromate                             of
       of
                                      ...
iron        Siberia contains in the 100 parts,
                   Oxide of chrome                            -          53
                   -Oxide of iron                                        34
                   Alumine            -           -           -          11
                   Silica                                                 i
                        '                             *             —— —                   /
                                                                         99
                Traces of manganese               and loss                1
                                                                     100
     These results   nearly similar to what
                            are                                               M.   Vauquelin
                                      ...
obtained from the chromate of Var.
                   Chromic acid                                          43
                   Oxide of iron              -           ,   -          34- 7
                   Alumine       -                                       SO-3
                   Silica                                                 2
                                                                     100
     Does the chrome exist in the state of acid or in that                                     of
oxide in the mineral termed chromate                              of iron     ?    M. Godon
de   Saint-Mesmin, in             upon the combinations of
                                  a   memoir
chromic acid, read at the National Institute, has discussed
this question, and is inclined to think that it is in the state
ef oxide.    M. Vauquelin, in his report of this memoir,
seems disposed         to adopt the same opinion.                             I    shall mere
ly state,   in support of this idea, an experiment which
renders   it probable.      If the green oxide of chrome be
gently calcined with pure potash, it is almost immediately
brought to the state of an acid : we are therefore not war
ranted in asserting that chrome exists as an acid in the
chromate of iron, while by the presence of potash this coa-
version of the oxide is rendered likely.   It is then, at least,
highly probable      that the mineral  which   till now has re
ceived the name of chromate of iron,          in fact, no other    is,
than   acombination of the oxides of iron and chrome.
   Since    Ifinished my examination of the chromate of iron
                                          A4                                                   of

s               Tendency     of Elastic Fluids        to Diffusion.
of Siberia,     I  have learnt that       M. Lowitz        has also analysed
this substance.        I am ignorant of the exact proportions of
its ingredients, according to his experiments, but if I may
judge from the note relative to this subject which appeared
in the Journal de Physique, his results were nearly the same
with mine     ;  for he announces that he found                   it to contain
more than half its weight of oxide                     of chrome, together
with iron, alumine, and a little silica.
II.   On the Tendency of Elastic Fluids to Diffusion through
                  each other.        By JOHN DALTQN*.
   N   an early period       of pneumatic chemistry it was disco
vered that elastic fluid* of different specific gravities being
once diffused through each other, do not of themselves se
parate,    by long standing, in such manner as that the hea
viest is found in the lowest place ; but, on the contrary,
remain in a state of uniform and, equal diffusion.
    Dr. Priestley     has given us a section on this               subject (vide
Experiments and Observations, &c. abridged, vol.ii. p. 441),
in which he has proved the fact above mentioned in a sa
tisfactory manner) and every one-s experience since, as
far as I know, has coincided with his conclusions.                           He
 has not offered any conjecture concerning the cause of this
 deviation from the law observed by inelastic fluids ; but he
 suggests, that
                     " if two     kinds   of air of very different specific
 gravities were put into the same vessel, with very great care,
 without the least agitation that might mix or blend them
 together, they might continue separate, as with the same
 care wine and water may be made to                  do."
    The determination           of this point, which             seems at first
 view but a trivial one, is of considerable importance ; as
 from it we may obtain a striking trait, either of the agree
 ment or disagreement of elastic and inelastic fluids in their
 mutual action on each other.
     It is therefore the subject          of   the   following experiments
  to ascertain whether two elastic fluids, brought into contact,
             * From    Manchester   Transactions, second scries, vol.1.
                                                                           could

              Tendency    of Elastic Fluids to   Diffusion.         9
could intermix with each other independently of agitation.
The result seems to give it in the affirmative beyond a
doubt, contrary to the suggestion of Dr. Priestley, and
establishes this remarkable fact, that a lighter elastic fluid
cannot rest upon a heavier, as is the case with liquids ; but
they are constantly active in diffusing themselves           through
each other till an equilibrium is effected, and that without
any regard to their specific gravity, except so far as it acce
 lerates or retards the effect, according to circumstances.
     The only apparatus found necessary was a few phials,
and tubes with perforated corks : the tube mostly used was
one 10 inches long, and of l-20th of an inch bore ; in some
 cases a tube of 30 inches in length and l-3d inch bore was
used: the phials held the gases that were subjects             of ex
 periment, and the tube formed the connection.                  In all
 cases the heavier      gas was   in the  under phial,   and the two
 were placed      in a perpendicular position, and suffered to re
 main so during the experiment in a state of rest : thus cir
  cumstanced, it is evident that the effect of agitation was
  sufficiently guarded against; for, a tube almost capillary,
  and ten inches long, could not be instrumental in propa
  gating an intermixture from a momentary commotion at
  the commencement of each experiment.
                              FIRST CLASS.
   Carbonic Acid       Gas,   with Atmospheric Air, Hydrogenous,
                      Azotic, and Nitrous Gases.
       1.  A  pint phial filled with carbonic acid gas, the 30 inch
  tube and an ounce phial, the tube and small phial being
   filled with common air, were ustd at first.           In one hour
  the small phial was removed, and had acquired no sensible
   quantity of acid gas, as appeared from agitating lime water
   in it. In three hours it had the acid gas in great plenty,
   instantly making lime water milky. After this it was re
   peatedly removed in the space of half an hour, and never
   failed to exhibit signs of the acid gas.        Things remaining
  just    the same,   the upper  phial was  filled  with the different
   gases mentioned above repeatedly, and in half an hour
   there was always found acid sufficient to make the phial,
                                                              one-h?<"

    It)          Tendency   of Elastic Fluids   to Diffusion.
   one-half filled with lime water, quite milky, • There was
   pot any perceptible difference, whatever gas was in the
   upper phial    *.
                             SECOND CLASS.                               »
   Hydrogenous       Gas,  with Atmospheric      Air  and Oxygenous
                                    Gas.
        1 . Two six-ounce phials were connected by the tube of
   a  tobacco pipe three inches long, the upper containing hy
   drogenous gas, the lower atmospheric air: after standing
   two hours the lower phial was examined ; the mixed gases
   it contained made six explosions in a small phial. The gas
  in the upper also exploded.
       2. Two four-ounce phials connected with the ten/mcn
  small tube stood two days, having common air and hydro
  gen gas.       Upon examination the upper was found to be
  one.third common air by the test of nitrous gas."             The gas
  in the under exploded smartly          ; that in the upper mode
  rately, with a lambent flame.
       3. TW0 one-ounce phials were connected by the ten-inch
  tube, containing common air and hydrogenous gas : in
  three hours and a      half the upper was about one-third com
  mon air, and the        under two-thirds l the former exploded
  faintly, the latter smartly.
      4. Two one-ounce phials        were connected      as above; the
  under containing       gas about three-fourths oxygenous, the
  upper hydrogenous : in three hours the latter was one-fifth
  oxygenous, and the former about one-half; the upper ex
  ploded violently, the under moderately.
-
       ."). Two one-ounce      phials were again connected, the
  lower having atmospheric air, the upper hydrogenous gas ;
  they stood fifteen hours, and were then examined : the
 upper gave 1-67 with nitrous gas, the under 1-66. Hence
  it is evident that an equilibrium had taken place, or the
 two gases were uniformly diffused through each other in
 both phials.
     * The small tube of ten inches was then used, and a phial of common
 air ; in one hour much acid gat had come through, M appeared by lime
 water.
                                                                 THIRD

              Tendency     of Elastic Fluids      to Diffusion.           ] 1
                              THIRD CLASS.
  Nifrous Gas, with Oxygenous Gas, Atmospheric                       Air,
                    Hydrogenous and Azotic Gases.
   The    results of the preceding experiments upon gases that
have    no known affinity for each other, were conformable
to what, a priori, I had conceived ; for, according to my
hypothesis,        every  gas diffuses      itself equably through any
given space that may be assigned to it ; and no other gas
being in its way can prevent, though it may considerably
retard, this diffusion.           But in some of the following ex
periments, in which the two gases are known to have a
chemical afBnity for each other, I expected different results
from what were found ; perhaps without sufficient reason.
For chemical union cannot take place till                  the particles are
brought      into   contiguity    ;  and   the  elastic  force  which sets
them in motion appears, from the above experiments, to
be a principle diametrically opposite to affinity.               That cir
culation    of elastic fluids, therefore, which          we have now be
fore us, cannot be accelerated             by their having a chemical
affinity for each other.            Another cirpumstance deserves ex
planation     :    when    nitrous    and oxygenous gas are in the two
phials, the residuary gases after the experiment are nearly
as  pure   as before ;    because those portions of them that meet
in the tube form         nitrous acid vapour, which is absorbed by
the moisture in the phials, .and therefore does not conta
minate either gas.
    1. Two one-ounce phials were connected with the small
tube, the under containing nitrous gas, the upper atmo
spheric air. After three hours the upper phial was taken
off, when a quantity of air was perceived to enter, as was
expected : the air in the upper phial was scarcely distin
guishable from what it was at first; that in the under phial
was    still so     much     nitrous    as  to require its    own bulk of
common air to saturate it.
   2.   The above experiment was repeated, and the upper
phial   drawn       off when the whole was under water, in order
to prevent        communication with the atmosphere.                 About
one-sixth       of   an ounce    of  water entered the phials,     to com
                                                                    pensate

  12          Tendency   of Elastic Flinds  to  Diffusion.
 pensate the   diminution.     Remaining air in the upper phial
 was a very little worse than common         air; it being of the
 standard 1-47,    when the former was T44.          The  gas  in the
 under phial was still nitrous, and nearly of the same purity
 as at first ; for three parts of it required four of atmospheric
 air to saturate them.
                    •
    3. Nitrous gas and one two-thirds oxygenous were tritd
in the same way. After four hours the apparatus was taken
down under water. The upper phial was two-thirds filled
with water, and the gas in it was partly driven down the
tube into the other phial,     by which,    and the previous pro
cess, the nitrous gas was completely saturated, and nothing
but azotic, with a small portion of oxygenous, were found
in the under phial. The remaining gas in the upper phial
w as  still one-half oxygenous.
    4. Nitrous gas and hydrogenous.            In three hours the
upper phial was one-fourth      nitrous,   and of course the under
must have a like part of hydrogen.
   5. Nitrous gas and azotic.         After three hours the upper
 phial was one-fifth nitrous.
    In  the two last experiments the quantity        of nitrous   gas
in the upper phial was less than might be expected ; but
the tube was at first filled with common air, and some must
enter on connecting the apparatus, which is sufficient to
account for the results.
                          FOURTH CLASS.
   Azotic Gas, with Mixtures containing Oxygenous Gas.
    \. Azotic    gas   and  one two-thirds     oxygenous.      After
standing three hours the upper phial was of the standard
 r7 8, or about one-fourteenth oxygenous.
   2. Azotic gas with atmospheric air.             After standing
three hours the upper phial      was not sensibly diminished by
nitrous gas ; the     under phial, however, had lost two per
cent., or one-tenth     of its oxygen.    The   reason  of this was,
that the azotic gas      in this experiment, having been just
made for it from nitrous gas, this last had not been com
pletely saturated with atmospheric air, and hence had seized
upon all the oxygen ascending into the upper phial.
                                                            Having

               Tendency     of Elastic Fluids         to    Diffusion.                    13
     Having now         related    all the experiments             I    made      of     any
importance          to the subject,    it will   be proper to add,                for the
sake of those that may wish to repeat some of them, that
great care must be taken to keep the inside of the tube dry ;
for if a drop of water interpose between the two gases,                                    I
have found  that it effectually prevents the intercourse.
Glass tubes should therefore be used, that one may be sa
tisfied on this head,       as the    obstruction will then be visible.
     I   shall make no further
                            comments on the above experi
ments by way of explanation ; because, to those who under
stand my hypothesis of elastic fluids, they need none : and
I think       it would be in vain          to attempt an explanation any
other way.           I cannot     however,     on this occasion, avoid ad
verting to some experiments of Dr. Priestley, which few
modern philosophers can be unacquainted with : I mean those
relating to the seeming conversion of water into air. (Vide
Philos. Transact, vol. Ixxiii. p. 414; or his Experiments
abridged, vol. ii. p. 407.)   He found that unglazed earthen
retorts, containing a little moisture, when heated, admitted
the external air to pass through their                pores at the same time
that aqueous vapour passed through the pores the contrary
way, or outward ; and that this last circumstance was ne
cessary to the air-s entrance. The retorts are air-tight, so
far as that blowing into them discovers no pores; but
when subjected to a greater pressure, as that of the atmo
sphere, or even one much short of                     it,they are not able to
prevent the passage of elastic fluids.                 The fact of air passing
into the retort through its pores, and vapour out of them at
the same time, are elegantly and most convincingly shown                                   by
Dr. Priestley-s experiments, in which he used                           the apparatus
represented in Plate VII. fig. 1. of the edition                        above referred
to.       The doctor     confesses his explanation            of       these remarka
ble facts      is
             very inadequate   and no wonder, for
                                       ;                     im                it   is
possible for him or any other to explain     them  on the  com
monly received principles of elastic fluids.    But we will hear
what he says on the subject — " At present :     my opi                 it   is
nion that the agent in this case that principle which, we
                                                 is
call attraction      of cohesion, or that power   which water          by
is   raised   in capillary tubes. But in what manner   acts in                 it
                                                                                         this

14             Tendency         of Elastic Fluids     to   Diffusioii.
this! case,    I    am far from being able to explain.                 Much       less
can    I imagine how air should
                             pass one way and vapour the
other in the same pores, and how the transmission of the
one should be necessary to the transmission of the other.
I    am satisfied, however,           that it is by means of such pores
as    air may be forced            through, that this curious process is
performed      ;    because the experiment           never succeeds         but in
such            as, by the air-pump
          vessels                                    at least,
                                                    appear to be
porous, though    in all such."
  The truth         is,
                   these facts, so difficult to explain, are ex
actly similar to those   which are the subject of this memoir;
only instead of    great number of pores, we have one of
                            a
sensible magnitude — the bore of the tube. Let the porous
retort have the same elastic fluid within and without, in
the one case       ;   and the two phials contain             the    same elastic
fluid in the other, then no transmission                      is   observable in
either:      but   if     the retort have common          air, or any other
gas,    without,and aqueous vapour,                    or any other elastic
fluid, except the  outside one, within then the motion in
                                                     ;
and out commences, just as with the phials in similar cir
cumstances.    In fact, this last observation has since been
verified by        Dr. Priestley himself, of which                 an account       is
given in No.           2,   of the American Philosophical Transac
tions, vol. v.              After alluding to his experiments above
mentioned, he observes             :   "   Since that time   I     have extended
and diversified the experiments, and have observed, that
what was done             by
                   air and water will be done       any two           by
kinds of air, and whether they have affinity to one another
or not  that this takes place in circumstances of which
         ;                                                                         I
was not at all apprised before, and such as experimenters
ought to be acquainted with, in order to prevent mistakes
of considerable consequence."
   The facts stated above, taken altogether, appear to me
to form as decisive evidence for that theory of elastic fluids
which   I    maintain,          and against the one commonly             received,
as any physical principle                  which   has ever been       deemed       a
subject of dispute can adduce.
                                                                           III.   On

                                          T     I*     3
III.      On tlie Absorption           of Gases by Water and                         other     2^'-
                          quids.       By John Dalton*.
1.   If   a quantity   of pure water be boiled rapidly for a short
time in a        vessel with a narrow aperture, or if it be sub
jected to the air-pump, the air exhausted from the receiver
containing the water, and then be briskly agitated for some
time, very nearly the whole of any gas the water may con
tain will be extricated from it.
     2.   If a quantity            of water thus           freed from air be agitated
in any kind of gas not chemically uniting with water, it will
absorb its bulk of the gas, or otherwise a part of it equal to
someone         of the following fractions, namely,                         .J.,   .^j, ^T, .r^T,
&c,       these being the cubes                of    the reciprocals         of     the natural
numbers         1,   2,   3,    &c,     or —v —„           —3,
                                                                 —s, &c,           the same gas
always being absorbed in the same proportion, as exhibited
in the following table.      must be understood that the
                                              It
quantity of gas   to be measured at the pressure and tempe
                           is
rature with which the impregnation    effected.              is
       Bulk absorbed, the bulk of                        Carbonic acid gas, sulphu
     water being unity.                               retted hydrogen, nitrous ox
                 1                                    ide  f.
                                                           defiant    gas    of     the     Dutch
                          =    ¦                      chemists.
                     2>
                 1                                       Oxygenous gas,     nitrous
                                                      gas   J,carburetted hydrogen
                                                      gas, from stagnant water.
                          =                              Azotic gas, hydrogenous
                     4s
                               rf                     gas, carbonic oxide.
                          = **»                       None discovered.
                     5»
     • From Manchester         Transactions, second series, vol.     i.
f    According to Mr. William Henry's experiments, water does not imbibe
quite its bulk of nitrous oxide in one or two instances with me
                                      :                         has come              it
very near it.  The apparent deviation of this gas may be owing to the diffi
culty of ascertaining the exact degree of its impurity.
  }  About l.2Gth of nitrous gas     usually absorbed, and l.27th
                                          is                      recovera.            is
                                                                                            3. The

 16                        On the Absorption             of Gases.
  3. The gas thus absorbed may be recovered from the
water the same in quantity and quality as it entered, by
the means pointed out in the first article.
  4. If a quantity of water free from air be agitated with a
mixture of two or more gases (such as atmospheric air), the
water will absorb portions of each gas the same as if they
were presented             to it separately       in their proper density.
      .Ex. gr. Atmospheric                  air, consisting of 79 parts azotic
gas, and 2         1    parts oxygenous gas, per cent.
            Water        absorbs        ^ of jfa,       azotic gas = l.234
                            :           t't of   tVo> oxygen gas         =    .778
                                                   Sum, per cent.            2"012
      5.    If
          water impregnated with any one gas (as hydro
genous)   be agitated with another gas equally absorbable (as
azotic), there will apparently be no absorption of the latter
gas, just as much gas being found after agitation as was
introduced to the water;    but upon examination the resi
duary gas will be found a mixture of the two, and the parts
of each, in the water, will be exactly proportional to those
out of the water.
      6.    If
          water impregnated with any one gas be agitated
with another gas less or more absorbable, there will appa
rently be an increase or diminution of the latter ; but upon
examination the residuary gas will be found a mixture of
the two, and the proportions agreeable to article 4.
      7.    If       of water in a phial, having a ground
                 a quantity
stopper very accurately adapted, be agitated with any gas,
or mixture of gases, till the due share has entered the wa
ter ; then,        if    the stopper be secured,              the phial may be ex
posed        to any variation              of temperature without disturbing
the equilibrium : that                   is, the quantity of gas in the water
will remain the same whether                       it   be exposed to heat or cold,
if    the stopper be           air-tight.
ble
  :    this difference    is    owing    to the residuum of oxygen in the water, each
measure      of which    takes 3{   of nitrous   gas to saturate when in water. Per
                                                                it
haps   it   may be found that nitrous gas usually contain*           a   small portion of ni
trous oxide.
                                                                               N.B.The

                            ly Water and            other Liquids.                         17
    N. B. The phial ought not to be near full of water, and
ihe temperature should be between 32° and 212°.
   8. If water be impregnated with one gas (as oxygenous,
and another gas, having an affinity for the former (as ni
trous), be agitated along with     the absorption of the latter
                                                    it,
gas will be greater,    the quantity necessary to saturate the
                                    by
former,         than   it   would have been               if   the water had been free
from gas *.
  9. Most liquids free from viscidity, such as acids, alco
hol, liquid sulphurets, and saline solutions in water, absorb
the same quantity             of     gases as pure water, except they have
an affinity          for the gas,             such    as the sulphurets          for oxy
gen,     Sec.
    The preceding articles contain the principal                          facts neces
sary to establish the theory of absorption  those that follow        ;
are of     subordinate nature, and partly deducible as corol
           a
laries to them.
   10. Pure distilled water, rain and spring water, usually
contain nearly their due share of atmospheric air      not,                      ;   if
they quickly acquire that- share    agitation in          by
                                                   and lose                it,
any other gas they may be impregnated with.             re                   It      is
markable,          however,          that water            by
                                                     stagnation, in certain
circumstances,              loses    part or  all of its oxygen, notwith
standing its constant                exposition to the atmosphere. This
I have uniformly found to be the case in my large wooden
pneumatic trough, containing about eight gallons, or                                       I
                                                                                          ,.
cubic foot of water.  Whenever this    replenished with to      is
lerably pure rain water,    contains its share of atmospheric
                                         it
air, but in process of time    becomes deficient of oxygen
                                               it                                              :
in three months the whole surface has been covered with                                        a
pellicle, and no oxygepous gas whatever was found in the
water.       was grown offensive, but not extremely so
                It                                                                    ;    it
had not been contaminated                           with any material portion of
     One part of oxygenous gas requires 3-4 of mtrous gas to saturate      in
 *                                                                                        it
water.   It agreeable to this that the rapid mixture of oxygenous and nitroui
              is
gat over   abroad surface of water occasions  greater dirainu:ion than other
                                                          a
wise. In fact, the nitrous acid    formed this way
                                         is           whereas when water
                                                                 ;                             it
not present the nitric acid   formed, which requires lust half the quantity of
                                    is
nitrous gas, as have lately ascertained.
                   I
    Vol.   24.     No. 93. Pel,          1806.            B                       metallic

   18                        On the Absorption    of  Gases
   metallic or sulphureous mixtures, or any other article to
   which the effect could be ascribed*.              The quantity of azotic
   gas is not materially diminished by stagnation, if at all.
  These circumstances, not being duly noticed, have been
  the source of great diversity in the results of different phi
  losophers upon the quantity and quality of atmospheric air
  in water.           By article 4, it appears that atmospheric air
  eipelled from water ought to have 38 per cent, oxygen ;
  whereas by this article air may be expelled from water that
  shall    contain from 38 to 0 per cent, of oxygen.                 The dis
  appearance       of oxygenous        gas in water,    I presume, must be
  owing to some impurities in the water which combine with
  the oxygen.           Pure rain water that had stood more than a
  year in an earthen-ware bottle had lost none of its oxygen.
      11. If water free from air be agitated                   with a small
  portion of atmospheric air (as l-15th of its bulk), the resi
  duum of such air will have proportionally less oxygen than
 the original : if we take l-15th, as above, then the resi
 duum will have only 1 7 per cent, oxygen, agreeably to the
 principle established in article 4.               This circumstance ac
 counts for the             observations    made    by Dr. Priestley and
 Mr. William Henry,                that water absorbs oxygen in pre
 ference to azote.
     12.    If  a tall glass       vessel,  containing     a small portion  of
 gas, be inverted            into   a deep   trough of water,    and the gas
 thus confined by the glass and the water be briskly agitated,
 it will gradually disappear.
     It  is a wonder           that Dr. Priestley, who seems to have
 been the       first   to    notice  this fact, should have made any
 difficulty of it : the loss of gas has evidently a mechanical
 cause   ;   the agitation divides the air into an infinite number
 of  minute bubbles, which may be seen pervading the whole
 water;       these     are successively driven        out from under the
margin       of the    glass into the trough,.and so escape.
    13.    If  old stagnant water be in the trough in the                 last
experiment, and atmospheric air be the subject, the oxy
genous gas will very soon be almost wholly extracted, and
leave a residuum of azotic gas ; but if the water be fully
                      *  It was drawn from a leaden cistern.
                                                                impregnated

                    ly Water and      other Liqmds,                   19
impregnated with atmospheric air at the beginning, the
residuary gas, examined at any time, will be pure atmo
spheric air.
    14.  If any gas,   not containing either azotic or oxygenous
gas,    be agitated  over water containing       atmospheric air, the
residuum will be found to contain both azotic and oxygenous
gas.
    15.  Let   a quantity   of water contain        equal   portions of
any two or more unequally absorbable gases ;              for instance,
azotic gas, oxygenous gas, and carbonic acid gas ; then let
the water be boiled, or subjected to the air pump, and it will
be found that     unequal portions of the gases will be expelled :
the azotic will be the greatest part, the oxygenous next,
and the carbonic acid will be the least.             For, the previous
impregnation being such as is due to atmospheres of the
 following relative forces nearly,
            Azotic      - - 21 inches of mercury
             Oxygenous -         9    ditto
             Carbonic acid      Of ditto
 consequently,      when   those    forces are removed, the resili
 ency of the azotic gas will be the greatest, and that of the
 carbonic acid the least ; the last will even be so small as not
 to overcome the cohesion      of    the   water without violent agi
 tation.
        Remarks on the Authority        of  the preceding Facts:
    In order   to give the chain     of facts as distinct as possible,
 I  have not mentioned by      whom, or in what manner, they
 were ascertained.
    The fact mentioned in the first article has been long
 khown ; a doubt, however, remained respecting the quan
 tity of air still left in water after ebullition and the operation
 of the- air pump.        The subsequent articles will, I appre
 hend, have placed this in a clearer point of view.
     In determining the quantity of gaies absorbed,            I had the
 result   of Mr. William Henry-s experience on the subject
 before me, an account       of which has been published in the
  Philosophical    Transactions     for   1803.     By   the  reciprocal
 communications       since, we have been enabled           to bring tlie
                                  fi  9                           result*

20                       On the Absorption        of   Gases
results of our experiments to a near agreement, as the quan
tities he has given in his appendix to that paper nearly ac
cord with those I have stated in the second article.   In my
experiments with the less absorbable gases, or those of the
2d, 3d, and 4th classes, I used a phial holding 2700 grains
of water, having a very accurately ground stopper; in those
with the more        absorbable     of    the first class        I   used an eudio
meter tube  properly graduated, and of aperture so as to be
covered with the end of a finger.  This was filled with the
gas, and a small portion expelled by introducing    a solid
body under water : the quantity being noticed by the
quantity of water that entered on withdrawing the solid
body, the finger was applied -to the end, and the water
within agitated : then, removing the finger for a mo
ment under  water, an additional quantity of water entered,
and the agitation was repeated till no more water would
enter, when the quantity and quality of the residuary gas
were examined.  In fact, water could never be made to take
its bulk of any gas by this procedure ; but if it took 9-10ths,
or any other part, and the residuary gas was 9-10ths pure,
then it was inferred that water would take its hulk of that
gas.     The principle      was     the same in using the phial ; only
a   small quantity of       the gas was admitted,    and the agitation
was longer.
  There are two very important facts contained in the se
cond article. The first           is,
                         that the quantity of gas absorbed
is   as the   density or pressure.            This was discovered             by   Mr.
William Henry, before either              he or I   had formed any theory
on the subject.
  The other       that the density of the gas in the water has
                   is,
a special relation to that out of the water, the distance of
the particles within being always some multiple of that
without. Thus, in the case of carbonic acid, 8cc. the di
stance within and without        the same, or the gas within
                                         is
the water    of the same density as without; in olefiant gas
              is
the distance of the particles in the water  twice that with
out; in oxygenous gas, &c. the distance                  is is
                                          just three                           times
as great within as without; and in azotic, &c.                           it   is   four
times.  This fact was the result of my own inquiry.                                The
                                                                              former

                        ly Water and        other    Liquids.                 21
former     of   these,     I  think,    decides     the effect to be mecha
nical   ;   and the latter seems             to point to the principle on
which the equilibrium is adjusted.
    The facts noticed in the 4th, 5th,                   and 6th articles were
investigated,       a  priori,    from   the    mechanical     hypothesis, and
the notion of the distinct agency of elastic fluids when mixed
together.         The results       were    found entirely to agree with
both, or      as  nearly     as could be expected from experiments
of such nature.
    The   facts mentioned in the 7th article are              of great import
ance in a theoretic view ; for,             if  the quantity   of .gas absorbed
depend upon mechanical principles,                    it cannot be affected by
temperature       in  confined      air,  as   the  mechanical     effect of the
external and internal air is alike increased by heat, and the
density not at all affected in those circumstances.                       I have
tried the experiments in a considerable variety of tempera
ture without perceiving any deviation from the principle. It
deserves further attention.
    If water     be,   as pointed out by this essay, a mere recep
tacle   of  gases,    it cannot affect their affinities: hence what
is observed      in the 8th article is too obvious to need explana.
tion.   -
          And      if we find the absorption of gases to arise not
from a chemical but               a mechanical cause, it may be ex
pected     that all liquids having an equal fluidity with water
will absorb like portions of gas. In several liquids I have
tried, no perceptible difference has been found ; but this de
 serves further investigation.
    After what        has     been observed,         it seems   unnecessary to
add any explanation            of  the 10th and following articles.
        Theory      of tlie Absorption of         Gases   ly Water,     &c. •
    From     the facts developed           in the preceding articles, the
following theory of the absorption of gases by water seems
 deduciblc :
     1. All gases that enter into water and other liquids by
 means of pressure, and are wholly disengaged again by the
 removal of that pressure, are mechanically mixed with the
 liquid, and not chemically combined with it.
    2. Gases so mixed with water, &c. retain their elasticity
                                         B3                                   or

    2*                          On the Absorption            of   Gases
    or    rtepulsive power amongst their own particles,                      just the     same
    in the water as out of               it,
                                  the intervening water having no
    other influence in this respect than    mere vacuum.     a
       3. Each gas   retained in water
                          is                             by
                                           the pressure of gas of its
    own kind incumbent on its surface abstractedly considered,
    no other gas with which   may be mixed having any per
                                         it
    manent influence in this respect.
     4. When water has absorbed          its bulk of carbonic acid
    gas,    &c.              not
                  the gas does     press on the water at all, but
    presses on the containing vessel just as     no water were in. if
    When    water has absorbed   its proper quantity of oxygenous
                      T'f 0f 'ls bulk, the exterior gas presses on
    gas, &c. that         is,
    the surface of the water with               ffi of its        force, and on the in
    ternal gas with        -iiy    of its force, which force              presses upon the
    containing       vessel        and not on the water.                  With azotic      and
    hydrogenous gas the proportions are £-$- and ^tf respectively.
,   When water contains no gas, its surface must support the
    whole pressure of any gas admitted to  till the gas has, in   it,
    part, forced its way into the water.
      5. A particle of gas pressing on the surface of water                                 is
    analogous to   single shot pressing upon the summit of
                      a                                                                     a
    square pile of them.    As the shot distributes its pressure
    equally amongst all the individuals forming the lowest stra
    tum of the pile, so the particle of gas distributes its pressure
    equally amongst every successive horizontal stratum of par
    ticles of water downwards till               it   reaches the sphere            of influ
    ence     of another particle of   gas.   For instance, let any gas
    press with    a   given force on the surface of water, and let the
    distance    of   the particles of gas from each other be to those
    of water    as 10 to          1; then each particle            of     gas must divide
    its force equally amongst 100 particles of water, as follows: —
    It exerts its immediate force upon particles of water those
                                                         4                          ;
4     press upon 9, the   upon      9and so on according to the
                                           1    6,
    order of square numbers, till 10O particles of water have the
    force distributed amongst them and in the same stratum
                                                     ;
    each square      of   100, having its incumbent particle                   of   gas, the
    water below this stratum               is   uniformly pressed      the gas,by
    and    consequently           has not its equilibrium    disturbed     that      by
    pressure.
                                                                                     When

                     by Water and oilier       Liquids.                  23
    When water has absorbed .^ of its bulk of any gas, the
stratum of gas on the surface of the water presses with $f of
its force on the water, in the manner pointed out in the last
article, and with Jy of its force on the uppermost stratum
of gas in the water : the distance of the two strata of gas
must be nearly 27 times the distance of the particles in the
incumbent atmosphere, and 9 times the distance of the par
ticles in the water. . This comparatively great distance of the
inner and outer atmosphere arises from the great repulsive
power of the latter, on account of its superior density, or its
presenting 9 particles of surface to the other 1. When ^
is absorbed, the distance of the atmospheres becomes 64
times the distance of two particles in the outer, or 16 times
that of the inner.       The annexed views of perpendicular and
horizontal strata of gas in and out of water, will sufficiently
illustrate these positions.
    7. An equilibrium between the outer and inner atmo
spheres      can be established      in no other circumstance than
that   of  the distance   of the particles of one atmosphere being
 the same or some        multiple of that of the other ; and it is
 probable the multiple cannot be more than 4.                    For in this
case the distance of the inner and outer atmospheres is such
as to make the perpendicular            force of each particle of the
former on those particles of the latter that are immediately
 subject to its influence, physically speaking, equal ; and
 the same may be observed of the small lateral force.
     8. The greatest difficulty attending the mechanical hypo
 thesis, arises from different gases observing different laws.
 Why does water not admit hs bulk of every kind of gas
 alike  ? — This question I      have duly .considered        : and though
 I  am not yet able to satisfy myself completely,               I am nearly
 persuaded      that the circumstance        depends      upon   the weight
 and number of the ultimate particles of the several gases;
 those whose particles are lightest and            single being least ab
 sorbable,    and the others more,         according as they increase
 in weight and complexity *.            An inquiry into the relative
 weights of the ultimate particles of bodies, is a subject, as
         •
           Subiequent experience renders this conjecture less probable.
                                    B4                                   far

24      Absorption   of   Gases  ly Waler and           other Liquids.
far  as I know, entirely new : I have lately been prosecuting
this inquiry with remarkable success.                The principle cannot
be entered upon in this paper ; but             I   shall just subjoin the
results,- as far as they appear to be ascertained by my expe
riments.
Tulle of     the relative Weights        of   the ultimate      Particles of
                     Gaseous and other Bodies.
       Hydrogen             -          -                            1
       Azote            -           -             -                 4-2
       Carbon             -                                         4-3
       Ammonia              -.         -             -        -     5-2
       Oxygen            -           -                              5-5
       Water            -           -             -                 6-5
       Phosphorus              -         -                           7-2
       Phosphuretted hydrogen                    -            -     8- 2
       Nitrous  gas            -         -                          Q-3
                         ....
       Ether          -             -             -           -     9-6
       Gaseous oxide of carbon                    -           -     9- 8
                                  -
                                  ...
       Nitrous oxide                            -                  13- 7
       Sulphur           -           -            -           -    14-4
       Nitric acid           -                        -            15*2
       Sulphuretted hydrogen                -                      15-4
       Carbonic acid              -             -                  I5-3
       Alcohol                                                     15-1
       Sulphureous- acid            -              -          -    19-9
       Sulphuric   acid                                            25-4
       Carburetted hydrogen from stagnant water                      6-3
       Olefiant gas            -          -           -       -     5-3
    In Plate I. fig. 1 . the lower globes are to represent par
ticles of water : the top globe represents a particle of air
resting on four particles of water. Fig. 3. Incumbent stra
tum    of atmosphere —the particles marked with a dot or point.
A stratum of air in the water—the particles marked with a
small cross.     Two representations          are given     : in one (azotic
and hydrogenous gas), the distance of particles 4 to 1 ; in
the other (oxygenous, nitrous, and carburetted hydrogenous
gas), distance of particles 3 to 1.
    Plate II. fig. 1. Profile view of air in water, azotic and
hydrogenous gas, ^ density : oxygenous, nitrous,                    and car-
buretted hydrogenous gas, -iV density.
                                                                     IV. An

                                   C
IV. An       Experimental Inquiry into the Nature of Gravelly
     and Caladous Concretions            in the Human Sulject; and
     the   Effects    of Alkaline and Acid Substances on them,
     in and    out    of the Body.        By THOMAS EG AN, M.D.
     M.R.LA.
                    [Continued from our last volume, p. 307.]
                                   PART    II.
  J. HE    bad effects    of all   acid  and acescent substances      being
 generally felt and          acknowledged,      we cannot be surprised
 that sufferers from         these maladies should naturally expect
 an alleviation of their complaints from substances of a very
 opposite nature ; or that, perhaps, in the general anxiety of
 mankind       to discover a solvent         of  these   concretions,    the
 active agency of alkaline matters could not be overlooked.
 We acc6rdingly find that, from the remotest aatiquity up
 to this day, they were, and still are, though under various
 modifications,        chiefly resorted to. Our antient physicians
 prescribed waters with mineral alkaline impregnation, such
 as Seltzer, Carlsbad, and others ; and, in latter times, we
  find    our own countrymen more particularly engaged in
  these pursuits.         Lime water, recommended by White, (to
 whose numerous and interesting experiments                   I  must beg-
 leave to refer;) lime, and pure alkaline matter, forming the
  bases   of the   celebrated    remedies    of madam Stephens, Hart
  ley,   and others.        And, in our own days, the caustic lixi
  vium,     again forgot,      to make     room for the more modern
  and    fashionable       introduction     of both     our alkaline    sub-
  and super-carbonates;           the vegetable,    as in Faulknor-s    me-
  phitic alkaline water, or in the crystallized carbonate of
   potash ; the mineral, in a desiccated state, as recommended
  by my learned and indefatigable friend, Dr. Beddoes ; or
   in that of    the well      known    soda waters, first introduced      in
   Geneva and Paris.
      Now, in whatever of           the above    forms these saline mat
   ters are employed,         their decided good effects are universally
   experienced     and acknowledged.            The aqua mephitica alka-
   lina  I  consider the most valuable gift          bestowed   upon man
                                                                        kind

  26         On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions,
 kind by our modern chemistry ; and to Beddoes-s desiccated
 soda pills, my colleagues must join with me in acknow
 ledging our greatest obligations. But how account for these
 good effects ? or what can their modus operandi be ? Hit
 labor, hoc opus.        Carbonates, we have always been given
 to   understand,     exerted    no solvent power on gravelly or
 calculous matter    ;   and this continues    to be the opinion     of
 philosophers,   as  well as medical chemists, to this day. We
 find Fourcroy,     in his late elaborate work on this subject,
 still continuing to assert, (in mentioning the action of va
 rious matters upon uric acid,)           " les carbonates alkalines
n-ont aucune action sur lui."           Nor does the difficulty di
minish with      respect    to the pure alkalies ; for, in the sto
mach and primce vice, they must return again, to either a
carbonated or saponaceous state.              My ingenious friend,
and master in chemistry,           Mr. William Higgins, (in the
work already quoted,) emphatically exclaims, " Why not
at once give soap      ?  why not turn our attention      to the  mild
mineral alkali ?"        With  regard to the common alkaline car
bonates in use, it may be observed that th% saturation is
not complete ; and that the uncombined portion of alkaline
matter may still exert its specific powers observable by its
detergent quality, as has been so long since well explained
by   Mr. Kirwan.        This explanation, however, could not ex
tend to the potassa carbonala, or crystallized          vegetable   al
kali, lately introduced,       and with equal success.      May   I be
permitted (notwithstanding         its use as a  test, and non-deli
quescence,) to entertain some doubt of its complete satura
tion ? for that, prepared with the most scrupulous care, still
retains its alkaline taste, and acts with energy on the vege
table blues.      The carbonic may probably be too weak an
acid to entirely annul its alkaline property in any propor
tion that we    can     possibly unite them in the solid state.        I
am informed by Mr. Kirwan, however, that this can be ef
fected ; but the saturation is temporary, and continues only
during its most recent state.         This we now accomplish, by
mechanical means, in the fluid one of our soda and other
mineral waters; where, indeed, the alkali may be consi
dered as in the super-carbonated state.           Now, the success
                                                            attendant

             On Gravelly and Calculous Concrttions,                     27
attendant also upon their exhibition, completely does away
my former hypothesis; and we are left to conclude, that
either the opinion of their want of action upon gravelly and
calculous matter is unfounded, or that the animal (economy
may be possessed (among the multiplicity of its wonders)
of some unknown chemical agency, whereby it may, m
their course through the circulation, disengage their car
bonic acid gas.
  This would not appear more extraordinary than the for
mation of the different and most opposite secretions, such
as bile and     milk, from one      and the same fluid      ;    nor than
what we every day observe to pass in the function* of the
vegetable department of the organized kingdom.      The $al-
sola kali, s&licomia, and other maritime plants, afforded to
Chaptal-s analysis, in their early state of growth, muriate
of soda ; when the plant was mure advanced, this salt, with,
this excess of alkali ; but in a full state of maturity, the
same    quite   disengaged,   and      unconihiiu-d  with muriatic
acid.    Here, then, we     have one    of our most refractory salts,
and that resists the action of our greatest fires, completely
decomposed by the vegetative powers of an humble plant.
In this state of uncertainty I determined upon a course of
some experiments which might throw some light on thi»
subject ; and go to explain how, or upon what                   principle,
alkaline earths or carbonates become remedies                   in   those
complaints.    And here, again, I must bring to our recol
lection, that whatever retains the uric acid in a state of so
lution whilst in  the body, must prevent the formation of
gravel or calculous matter of that kind.
   And to begin with lime water, so generally prescribed
since the time of White.      In this, the quantity of pure
earth   in solution(being only one grain in 700 of water) ia
so minute,  and it    is,
                       withal, so readily decomposed, that
we could not,  priori, expect much from its agency.
                a
  On conversing, however, with my friend Dr. Harvey on
this subject, (of whose professional acumen       unneces
                                                      it   is
sary to make mention here,) he observed, with that strength
of reasoning peculiarly his own " Whatever may be the re
                                    :
sult of your future inquiries, can you, for moment, ima
                                                  a
                                                                      gine

 23            On Gravelly and Cattulous Concretions.
 gine that physicians of the first eminence, and of all na
 tions, would still consent to tread in the path of empiricism
 by persevering in the use of this remedy, if they were not
 retained in it by the irresistible evidence of a successful
 practice and observation ? or that the late Dr. Smyth, a
 gentleman of great discernment, and extensive knowledge,
 would,     so generally and promiscuously,        prescribe lime water
in gout and gravel, if he were not satisfied of its efficacy,
as well as of the great similarity of these complaints ?"
                             Experiment     I.
    To four ounces of healthy urine             was   added    one ounce
of lime water.        A  similar quantity of urine was set aside
as   a standard, both      in close vessels ; temperature varying
frem     60 to 75 degrees, being in August 1799.                   In the
first, no sign of the slightest separation, or crystallization
of uric acid, after three, five, or seven days. Some ob
servable     in the   standard     after the third day,       which    in
creased in quantity to the      fifth.
                             Experiment     II.
    To the    same quantity     of urine was      added   half   an ounce
only of lime water, with the            same    appearances     as before.
No sign of uric acid after       several days.     The   standard   depo
sited  a  few crystals on the third morning.
                           Experiment      III.
    To   the same    quantity    of urine   were added two drachms
only of lime water, which, though insufficient              to neutralize
the disengaged      phosphoric acid, yet seemed as effectually to
prevent     the separation    of uric acid as the greater quantities
employed in the former experiments.
                           Experiment      IV.
    To three ounces of      the urine  of a child, six   years old, still
warm,      and   subject to deposit gravel upon cooling, were
added two drachms of lime water, which effectually pre
vented all separation    of this matter, whilst the standard         pre
cipitated copiously this saline substance         after three hours.
                                                             Experiment

             On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.                   29
                             Experiment    V.
  To    three ounces   of the   kind of urine as in the pre
                                 same
ceding, was added one drachm of lime water : the result the
same as in the former.   Some precipitation in the standard,
as in the preceding experiment.
   When we consider the small proportion of lime kept in
solution in water, and that the lime water used in my ex
periments was far from being recent, we must be astonished
at the minute quantity that proves sufficient to keep the uric
acid in solution : but this wonder ceases when we recollect
that the proportion of it in the above quantities of urine is
extremely small, and that it is scarcely acid ; as we may
learn from the controversy that took place between two such
able chemists as Pearson and Fonrcroy on this subject.
Finding, then, our common lime water exerting such powers
in preventing the separation or crystallization of this sub
stance, it occurred to me, that much more might be ex
pected from barytic lime water, as containing a larger pro
portion of saline matter in solution ; and that, though, from
its poisonous effects in the carbonated state, the internal ex
hibition would    be hazardous,      yet it might prove an useful
remedy when injected into the        bladder.   But how uncertain
are our apparently best founded theories when not deduced
from experiment    !
                             Experiment    VI,
  To three ounces of urine was             added one drachm    of ba
rytic lime water, which immediately seemed to decompose
the whole, render it turbid, and give it the appearance of
the urina jumentosa ; for reasons easily and satisfactorily
explained by Fourcroy, to whom I must refer.          After two
days I was surprised  to  find some   small crystalline matter
adhering to the sides of the glass ; and, upon examining the
copious precipitate from this re-agent, I found jt blended
with    as much  crystallized uric acid as appeared in the stan
dard.    A   repetition of this experiment, both since and at
that time, afforded    the    same   results.    Now   the strength   of
barytic lime water     is,
                       to that of the common, nearly as 13
to
 l ;   the former keeping in solution, at the temperature 60
                                                              degrees,

  Ad          On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.
 degrees, 13 grains to the ounce.        Has the barytic, with all
 its superior energy, less affinity for the uric acid than the
calcareous earth ? or does a superior affinity, to some other
ingredients of the urinary compound, supersede its union to
this ?
    I regret that the small quantity of stronthian lime water,
which    I possessed, did not permit me to extend my inquiries
with it.
    Finding, then, that our alkaline earth of lime, in the
weakest possible state of solution, and in the smallest pro
portion, effectually prevents the crystallization, or keeps in
solution the lithic acid of urine : if we only suppose that
it reaches the kidneys and bladder in the smallest quantity,
it must produce similar effects there, obviate the further
formation of gravelly matter, or further accumulation of
pre-existing calculous concretions of this kind.
    Let us now proceed to inquire into the effects of the pure
and carbonated alkalies themselves.       The action of the former
being well known and acknowledged, I shall content myself
with one experiment, and pass on to the latter.
                         Experiment     VII.
    To four  ounces   of  the urine   of  a  child often depositing .
gravel, on cooling,     were added ten drops of the aqua kali
puri of the shops.      After seven days no sign of separation:
some observable in the standard after some hours.
                         Experiment     VIII.
    To four ounces of urine were added three grains only of
crystallized carbonate of potash, the purity of which was
ascertained    by Dr. Perceval and myself, and containing,
according to Mr. Kirwan, 1.23 grains of alkali.           After se
veral days no appearance        of  crystallized matter : some in
the standard after forty-eight     hours.
                          Experiment     IX.
    To  the same quantity    of urine  were added two grains only
of  the same,   with the like result.
    From the pure arid carbonated, let us now proceed to the
Super-carbonated and sub-carbonated states.
         4                                              Experiment

            On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.               3 1
                          Experiment     X.
   To  three ounces   of urine, in a well closed phial, was added
half an ounce of     the aqua mephitica alkalina,      prepared ac
cording to Dr. Faulkner-s proportions.          No crystallized ap
pearance after seven days.        This   result  we might well ex
pect, from the relative large proportion of its alkaline salt ;
having already seen equally good effects, from half an ounce
only of Kinsley-s soda water, containing a mere fraction of
alkaline matter.
                          Experiment     XI.
   To  three ounces    of urine were added two grains of the
common salt of tartar of the shops, containing, according
to Mr. Kirwan, 0-8C of alkali.        The same results as in the
former experiments, even after six days.
                         Experiment    XII.
   Having no pure mineral alkali,       three   grains of the com
mon crystallized soda     of the shops, containing, according to
Mr. Kirwan,     O-64  of alkali, were added to four ounces of
urine.     The result as in the former; which was equally pro
duced by two grains only; and perhaps would have been
equally so by one.
   Wishing to be more fully convinced that the very large
proportion of disengaged carbonic acid gas in our soda wa
ters did not counteract the usual alkaline effects :
                        Experiment     XIII.
   To four ounces of    the urine  of the  same   child, which was
generally surcharged with gravelly matter, I added half an
ounce of Kinsley-s soda water in its full state of efferves
cence  :  the phial well corked, and removed into a cold cellar,
temperature 42 degrees.        After four days, nay, a week, no
thing  but  the usual  calcareous  sediment, without an atom of
crystallized, or otherwise precipitated uric acid.
   From the above experiments, then, we learn, that pure
lime in the state of lime water, the pure alkalies, the sub-
carbonated, carbonated, and super-carbonated, all prevent
the separation of the uric acid, by uniting probably with,
                                                                and

    32             ,    0« Gravelly and Calculous          Concretions.
    and retaining it in solution. That they should still exert
    their power in the super-carbonated soda water, is rather
    singular ; and we must suppose that, in the temperature of
    the human body,                   this superabundant gas     (which, for the
    greater part, is only retained              by compression) would be dis
    engaged,           and leave the alkali to exert     its usual properties      ;
    and so,        I
             would presume, it happens.
         A   half pint of
                     soda water was poured into a large glass,
    and exposed to the influence of the atmosphere in a tempe
    rature of from                  After two days it continued
                              CO to 75 degrees.
    to turn litmus red, and only ceased to do so at the end of
    three. But in Experiment X. we find it in its full gaseous
    state, still possessing its alkaline influence on the uric acid ;
    which      I
             would be disposed to attribute to its very weak union
    to the carbonic acid in the fully carbonated and super-car
    bonated states, as well as to the very weak degree of acidity
    of  the uric acid itself, rendering the most minute portion of
    all alkaline matter sufficient to its saturation. However this
    may be, it is obvious that the extraordinary quantity of gas
    with which these waters are surcharged, is undoubtedly su
    perfluous, and may probably prove dangerous.         In gouty
    habits (so subject to these complaints) there is always danger-
    of their inducing spasmodic affections of the stomach. This
    has frequently occurred j and     to preventif,             it,
                                                    we are obliged
    to add spirituous tinctures, and brandy, why not as well                    omit
    this super-saturation at once, and content ourselves with
    that pleasing degree of   which exceeds but little that of
                                          it
"
    saturation         ?
         Nor       have      the predisposed to apoplexy less to apprehend.
    And in         these cases we find our own      physicians, as well as
    those     of         kingdom, preferring carbonated potash,
                       the   sister
    or desiccated soda.   But, recollecting that    am acting, on
                                                               I
    this occasion, the part only of the experimenter,    shall now    I
    proceed to consider what the action of these saline substances
    may be on the uric acid, in its concrete or calculous state, as
    well as on    few others of these concretions, which, though
                       a
    of   a   different nature, are          of frequent occurrence,       and   easy
    .solubility.           The nature of       those   employed in the following
                                                                      experiments

              On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.                  33
experiments was always previously ascertained and specifiedj
they were also carefully weighed and dried, both before and
after immersion in their several menstrua.
    Dr. Percival, of Manchester,         as well as others, having
experienced     the solvent power    of the plain mephitic, or car
bonated water, on urinary calculi, it was thought proper to
 repeat his experiments.
                            Experiment       T.
   A   fragment of a calculus, weighing twenty-three grains,
and of the uric acid kind, was suspended by a thread, for
forty-eight hours, in Nooth-s apparatus, already nearly filled
with highly impregnated aerated water, and still exposed to
a stream      of carbonic acid     gas :    temperature 58 degrees.
When taken out,         and dried,   weighed,      as before, twenty-
thr£c grains.
                           Experiment       II.
   A    fragment of    a  calculus,  of   the   same   kind, weighing
forty grains and three quarters, was suspended, as before, in
Nooth-s apparatus, for forty-eight hours : temperature vary
ing from forty to fifty-five degrees.            On being taken out,
and dried, was found to have sustained no loss.
                           Experiment      III.
   An entire calculus,       of a rough and        sandy   appearance,
chiefly of the uric    acid  kind, but with some extremely mi
nute intermixed particles of the annnoniacal magnesian phos
phate, weighing fifty-two grains, was suspended, as before,
for forty-eight hours, in Nooth-s apparatus                After being
taken out, and dried, was found to weigh fifty-one grains
and a quarter ; so that there was here a loss of three quar
ters of a grain : undoubtedly of the ammoniacal magnesian
phosphate.
                          Experiment     IV.
   Wishing     to see whether even increased      temperature would
add to the solvent power        of carbonic      acid, a fragment of
calculus, of   the uric acid  kind, weighing twenty-two grains,
was   immersed,     as  before, for forty-eight       hours,  in three
ounces    and a  half of highly impregnated carbonated water,
   Vol.   24. No. 93. Feb. 1806.          C                          in

  34          On Gravelly and Calculvus Concretions.
  in a well closed phial, and laid on a sand heat which did not
  exceed    the  temperature     of  100 degrees.      After beinj* taken
  out, and dried, the weight was found,          as  before, twenty-two
  grains.
     From these experiments, then, we may conclude, that cal
  culi of the uric acid kind are insoluble in carbonated water;
  and that    Dr. Percival, whose character         as a philosopher, as
 well   as   a physician,     deservedly  stands   so high,    must have
 operated     upon concretions of a different kind ; more espe
 cially  as  in his experiments there was a loss of several grains
 in only a few ounces of mephitic water, whilst none appeared
 in ours, though in several pounds of that fluid. He must
 have then operated       upon some of a different and highly so
 luble kind.
                              Experiment V.
     One-half of     a  calculus, of the ammoniacal           magnesian
 kind, weighing      100*5 grains,      was suspended, as usual, for
 forty-eight     hours,    in Nooth-s apparatus : temperature 50
 degrees.      Upon being taken out, and dried, was found to
 weigh 92-63 grains ; so that its loss amounted to 7-87, or
 rather more than seven grains three quarters. And here we
 have an explanation of the result of Dr. Percival-s experi
ments, by supposing that the calculi he employed must have
been of this species ; the extreme solubility of which, in so
weak and innocent         a  menstruum,     should excite the earnest
hope of our young gentlemen, in the surgical department,
of effecting its solution by injections of carbonated water
into the bladder.       To such safe trials they must be encou
raged by the pleasing consideratiori          that   this kind forms a
large   proportion     of   the human     urinary calculi.      On  these
occasions the water          should not be too highly impregnated,
lest the sudden     expansion of the ras under the human tem
perature might excite the bladder to reject it too quickly.
This inconvenience, however, must be in part obviated by
the necessity of previously warming the injection to about
the temperature of 80 degrees ; a precaution never to he
omitted.       But to return to the alkaline earths and salts:—
                             Experiment VI.
    One-half of    a uric acid calculus was suspended,         for forty-
                                                                    eight

               On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.               33
eight hours, in four ounces of lime water : temperature as
before. After being dried, was found to have lost seven
grains three quarters ; and the surface to be covered with a
granular efflorescence, which, in drying, detaches itself. The           <
calculus was so much softened as to leave little doubt of
it* entire destruction by a few more immersions.   It was
again suspended for a month, in the same quantity of lime
water, in the temperature of the atmosphere only, without
any renewal of the menstruum ; when it was found to have
lost twenty-four grains. Now, if the lime water had been
frequently renewed, and its energy assisted .by the standard
heat     of  human body, no doubt but it would have been
              the
entirely broken down in a much shorter time. We find,
then, lime water not only preventing the separation of uric
acid from urine, but acting powerfully upon it in its most
compact form.    How well founded, then, were the experi
ments of Whyte, as well as the opinion of Dr. Smyth ; and
how little deserving the latter the obloquy of his contempo
raries for his predilection to it !  Now this result, corre
sponding also with Scheele-s, points it out to us as one of
our most safe and active agents, when injected into the blad
der with the necessary precautions.  And we must feel sur
prised that no attempts       of that kind    have been made    since
the time of Whyte.
                            Experiment    VII.
     A   fragrrtent   of calculus, of        kind, weighing
                                        the uric acid
                                                                         -
seventy-nine grains and a quarter, was suspended, for forty-
eight hours, in a mixture consisting of four ounces of di
stilled water atid twenty-five drops of the weak aqua kali
pari of the shops, which merely gave it an alkaline taste.
It   was then placed on a sand heat ; temperature varying oc
casionally from 60 to 100 degrees.   After being taken out,
and dried, it weighed seventy-four grains and three quarters;
so that the loss amounted to four grains and a half.    This
weak lixivium, it appears, then, operated upon            it,
                                                    acquired
ayellow colour,    sweet taste, and precipitated, with
                       a                                 few    a
drops     of muriatic acid,   a   white sediment, easily recognizable
                                    C2                             by

 36          On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.
 by the small,     silky, needle-shaped, crystalline       appearance
 peculiar to the uric acid.
                        Experiment      VIII.
    This   same fragment    of calculus,    after being well washed,
 and dried, was again immersed,          for forty-eight hours, in a
lixivium consisting of folly twenty drops of aqua kali purl
 to four ounces of distilled water, and under the same cir
cumstances.        Upon being taken out, and dried, it was
found to have lost four grains and a quarter.           The solution
was of a yellowish green colour, lost all alkaline taste, and
precipitated,   as  before, with either the acetous or muriatic
acid.
                          Experiment       IX.
   A    fragment of calculus,       of   the   same  kind,   weighing
eighty-one grains, was suspended, as before, for forty-eight
hours, in a mixture consisting only of fifteen drops of the
same alkali to four ounces of distilled water, which scarcely
imparted an alkaline taste. After being taken out, and dried,
it was found to have lost one grain and three quarters ; the
specimen consisting chiefly of the external laminae,             much
more slowly acted upon.
                          Experiment       X.
   This    same fragment,     washed     and dried, was    agaim  im
mersed, for forty-eie;ht hours, in a similar lixivium, and
onder the like circumstances.          The loss now amounted to
nearly fmir grains ; and from this we learn how considerably
the energy of the menstruum is increased by each succeeding
immersion     ; so much so, indeed,       that a few repetitions en
able it to disunite the   laminx,     and    cause them to crumble
into  a  pulverulent state, easily voidable with the urine.        To
the happy result, therefore,      of this experiment let me ear
nestly solicit the attention of our young practitioners.
                           [To bo voiuinurd.1
                                                               V-The

                                  [    37      ]
V. The Syphon applied           to the Worm Tub as a -Refrigerator ;
   or,   A   Plan    for    conveying     Writer in antl Quantity to a
   Worm      Till of      the largest Dimensions, if perfectly Air
   tight.    By ALEXANDER JOHNSTON, Engineer*.
A. FIG.      2. Plate II-.    The   feed pipe      of cold water.
   B. The hot water, or          waste pipe, the end            of which must
be about two feet lower than the feed pipe,                    to   make it act
with full effect.
   When you commence work, you must shut the cocks,
and fill the tub through a hole at top, and, of course, both
pipes, and, when full, stop the hole at top, and open the
cock-s together; the water will then commence running, and
continue    as  long   as the  supply holds good,           as  it acts in every
respect on the principle         of a syphon.
   By this    means pumps, horse            mills,   and other machinery,
arc rendered unnecessary for that purpose.
   The application of this improvement is simple, and exe
cuted at a very little expense.             The saving, I think, may be
calculated at upwards of one hundred horses per annum, for
the city of Dublin alone.
   I have executed one for Nicholas Roe, csq. Marybone-
lane.
                                              ALEXANDER JOHNSTON.
  Dublin, July6,    1803.
        VI.   Description      of   a    Cometarium invented            ly
                           Ez. WALKER,            Esq.
                              To  Mr. Tilloch.
       SIR,                                               Lynn, Ian.   21, 1806.
1 HAVE lately constructed           a  cometarium,         which produces        a
more beautiful effect than any instrument of the kind that I
am acquainted with.            It is founded on a property of the
convex lens, that I do not remember to have seen taken
notice of by any writer on optics ; and thinking that it may
              •
                 From Transactions   of Ike  Dublin Society, Tot iii.
                                     C £                                   afford

    38                   Description    of a Cometarium.
    afford amusement        to some of your readers, I have taken the
    liberty to trouble you with a description of it.
       The first part of my instrument that I shall describe con
    sists  of  a  mahogany board, 14 inches in length and 10 in
   breadth, fixed to a stand in a perpendicular direction, in the
   following manner         :
       A  brass pin,     sufficiently strong to bear the weight of the
   instrument,      is   screwed    into the side of a stand of a u-ie-
   scope    ; the other end of the pin is tapped, and has a button
   screw that turns upon it. This pin goes through a hole
   near the bottom of the board, and by means of the button,
   screw and brass washers the board is made fast to the stand.
   Near the top of the board a hole 6 inches wide and 3 inches
  high is cut through it ; the top of the hole being 3 inches
  from the top of the board.
       2dly. A double convex lens,            4 inches  in diameter  and 24
  inches focal distance, set in           a piece of mahogany 6 inches
  square, is mounted          in  a square frame 6 inches within.       The
  lens turns round within this frame upon two pins, like a
  looking-glass        that is made to stand upon a table. This
  frame is made fast to the board with screws around the hole
  above mentioned, in such a manner that one part of the lens
  may be on one side of the board, and the other part on the
  other side.       That side of the board on which the frame is
 fixed,     I shall, for the sake of distinction,        call the back part
 of the instrument.
      About 2£ inches below the centre of this lens, another
 lens of half an inch in diameter, and 36 inches focal distance,
 is placed on the back part of the instrument, against a hole
made through the mahogany board.                    As this lens requires
 adjustment,       it is  set in  a small   piece of wood that slides in a
dove-tail frame fixed to the back part of the instrument ;
and     a lens of l-l- inch diameter, and 40 inches focal distance,
is fixed in     a hole near the bottom of the board.
                  Directions     for  using (he Instrument.
      Having    set the instrument         upon   a  table, with its back
turned towards         a  white wall, at the distance of 23 inches,
f-irn that part      of  the great lens that is behind the instrument
                                                                      until

               Description        of a Property of        Caoutchovc.                        3<>
until it makes an angle of about 50° will) the top part of the
frame in which it turns. Then place a lighted candle before
the cometarium, at the distance of 1 8 feet, and the light
which passes through the great lens forms a beautiful repre
sentation of the tail of a comet upon the wall ; the light
which     passes through the small lens represents                        its head, and
that light which falls upon the other lens is converged to a
circular spot, which represents the sun.
  When the instrument is turned round by hand on the pin
which supports          it,
                     the comet revolves round the sun, the
head and tail of the comet always keeping in the same posi
tion, with respect to the sun, in every part of its orbit.
   And as no light    suffered to pass through the instrument
                             is
except that which goes   through the glasses, and no light
being in the room except one candle, the luminous pictures
are seen, upon the dark shadow made by the opaque parts of
the instrument,  exceedingly clear and well deflned. The
head and that part of the tail which joins to    are very bril       it
liant ;but this brilliancy of the tail gradually decreases to
wards its end,      as represented          in Plate     III.
                              I    am, sir, your humble servant,
                                                                    Ez. WALKER.
VII. A    Description             of
                            Property
                                   a    Caoutchouc, or Indian
                                                    of
   Rubber; with some Reflections on the Cause       the Elas              of
   ticity   this Substance-.
              of               In a Letter to Dr. HOLME*.
                                                         Middlcshaw,        near Kendal,
      SIR,                                                         Nov.   16,   1802.
JL   HE substance         called caoutchouc,             or Indian rubber, pos
sesses  singular property, which,
          a                                         1    believe, has never been
taken notice of   print, at.least
                        in                         by   any   English writer            :   the
present       letter contains my experiments and reflections on the
subject   ;    and should they appear to deserve                     |he attention           of
your philosophical            friends,    I   am certain you              will       take   the
trouble of communicating the paper                            to   the    Literary          and
Philosophical Society of Manchester.
               • From   Manchester     Transactions, second series, vol.        i.
                                            C  4                                            Ths

40               Description            of a Property of                Caoutchouc.
  The property I am about to describe depends on the tem
perature of the caoutchouc which is used in the experi
ment ; for heat increases the pliancy of the substance, and
cold, on the contrary, renders it more rigid ; so that when
a slip of this resin has been sufficiently warmed, it may be
extended to more than twice its natural length, by a moderate
force applied to its extremities ; after which i t will recover its
original dimensions in a moment, provided one of the ends of
it be let go      as   soon     as   it has been stretched.                   This disposition
of   the substancemay be produced by a                                  degree of temperature
less than the heat of the blood ; it is therefore necessary to
prepare a slip of            it,
                        steeping   by
                                   for few minutes in warm
                                                       it           a
water, or         by
              holding    somewhat longer in the fist either of
                                      it                                              :
these precautions makes the resin pliant, and fits      for the                       it
experiment, which    performed in the following manner:
                                   is
 I  made   piece of caoutchouc
                 a              little heavier than an equal
                                                           a
bulk of water, the temperature of which was 45 degrees                                        :
the vessel containing the resin and water was then placed on
the fire; and when the contents of       were heated to 130         it
degrees,     the caoutchouc floated on the surface.
                                         Experiment             I.
     Hold    o.ne      end      of
                           slip, thus prepared, between the
                                        the
thumb and fore-finger of each hand, bring the middle of the
piece into slight contact with the edges of the lips, taking
care to keep           it   straight          at the       time, but not to stretch          it
much beyond its natural length                             :   after taking these prepara
tory steps, extend the slip suddenly, and you will immedi
ately perceive    sensation of warmth in that part of the
                        a
mouth which              arising from an augmentation of
                        touches            it,
temperature in the  caoutchouc     for this resin evidently;
grows warmer the further       extended, and the edges of
                                                 it   is
the lips possess high degree of sensibility, which enables
                            a
them to discover these changes with greater facility than
other parts ofer the body.    The increase of temperature,
which     perceived upon extending
            is                         piece of caoutchouc,         a
may be destroyed   in an instant,    permitting the slip to    by
contract again    which ;  will do quickly it   virtue of its                 by
own spring,            as   oft      as the      stretching force ceases to act as
                                                                                           ?qon

            Description   of a Properly of Caoutchouc.       41
soon  as it has been fully exerted.   Perhaps it will be said,
lhat the preceding experiment is conducted in a negligent
manner ; that a person who wishes for accuracy will not
trust his own sense of feeling in inquiries of this description,
but will contrive to employ a thermometer in the business.
Should the objection be started, the answer to it is obvious ;
for the experiment in its present state demonstrates the
reality of a singular fact, by convincing that sense, which
is the only direct judge in the case, that the temperature of
a piece of caoutchouc may be changed by compelling it to
change its dimensions.    The use of a thermometer deter
mines the relative magnitudes of these variations, by refer
ring the question of temperature to the eye : experiments of
this sort are therefore of a mathematical nature, and afford a
kind of knowledge with which we have nothing to do at
present; for we are not inquiring after proportions, but en
deavouring to establish the certainty of a fact, which may
Assist in discovering the reason of the uncommon elasticity
Observable in caoutchouc.     My essay or letter appears to be
running into    long digression ; the subject must therefore
                   a
be resumed, and it  will not be improper to premise the fol
lowing simple experiment, in the present state of the inquiry,
because it seems capable of affording no inconsiderable de»
gree   of insight into    the   plan which nature pursues in pro
ducing the phenomenon           in question.
                           Experiment    II.
   If one end of a slip of caoutchouc be fastened to a rod of
metal or wood, and a weight be fixed to the other extremity,
in order to keep it in a vertical position, the thong will be
found to     become shorter with heat and longer with cold.
The    processes of heating, cooling, and measuring bodies are
so well known, that I need not enter into the minuter parts
of the experiment ; it will be proper however to add, that
an increase of temperature diminishes the specific gravity of
the Indian rubber, and a loss of heat occasions a contrary
effect in   it,
              as   I  have proved experimentally.   The know
ledge  of the  latter  fact leads me to conclude, apparently on
reasonable grounds, that the pores or interstices of caout
                                                           chouc

42               Description      of a Properly of Caoutchouc.
chouc are enlarged by heat and diminished by cold ; conse-
quently when a slip of this substance which remains extended
by a weight, or the application of force, happens to contract
from an accession            of   temperature,   the capacity   of its pores,
taken separately or collectively, is augmented by the change
that takes place in the figure of the thong.   Now if the ex
istence of caloric be admitted, it will follow from the pre
ceding arguments, that the phenomenon under consideration
is occasioned by the alternate absorption and emission of the
calorific fluid, in the same manner that ropes, the blades of
fuci,   as well as many more bodies, are obliged to contract
and extend themselves,                 by the    alternate absorption        and
emission             You will perceive by the tenour of the
                of water.
foregoing observations, that my theory of this case of elas-<
ticity is perfectly mechanical ; in fact, the explanation of it
depends upon the mutual attraction of caloric and caout
chouc      ;    the former of which penetrates            the    latter,     and,
pervades        every part of it with the greatest        ease and       expedi
tion, by which the resin is compelled to accommodate its
pores to that portion of the calorific fluid which is due to its
whole mass, at any particular degree of temperature.         In
order to apply the last remark to the phaenomenon under
consideration, I may observe, that if a force be exerted on a
piece   of caoutchouc         to alter   the dimensions    of its     pores, the,
mutual attraction mentioned above will resist the effort. But
the ease with which this substance may be made to change
its figure, and the retractile power which it possesses on
these occasions, show that its constituent particles move
freely amongst themselves : but where there is motion there
is void space ; consequently caoutchouc abounds with innu
merable pores or interstices, the magnitudes of which are
variable, because the specific gravity of the resin becomes
less with heat and greater with cold. Now if the dimensions
of   the       pores   in     of caoutchouc can be lessened,
                            a piece
without taking away part of the matter of heat which it
contains at the time, this new arrangement in the internal
structure of the slip will lessen its capacity for the matter of
iieat, and consequently augment its temperature. But the
 warmth of such a slip is increased by stretching     according it,
                1
                                                                              t«

             Description     of a Property of    Caoutchouc.        43
to the first experiment : the pores of it are therefore dimi
nished ; and the effort which it exerts at the time arises from
the mutual attraction        of the caoutchouc and caloric, which
attraction causes an endeavour to enlarge the interstices of
 the former for the reception of the latter : hence it happens
that the thong contracts longitudinally,             according to the
second experiment, and the redundant caloric is absorbed in
the course    of this operation, which again reduces          the tem
perature. The preceding explanation agrees very well with
the phenomenon, as it is stated in the beginning of this
letter ; and the theory receives additional confirmation from
 the following facts.
                             Experiment     III.
    If a thong of caoutchouc be stretched, in water warmer
than itself, it retains its elasticity unimpaired ; on, the con
trary, if the experiment be made in water colder than itself,
it loses part    of  its retractile power,    being unable to recover
its former figure ; but let the thong be placed in hot water,
while it remains extended for want of spring, and the heat
will immediately make it contract briskly.               The foregoing
circumstances may be considered as proving, that the elasti
city of caoutchouc is not a constitutional quality of the
substance, but a contingent effect, arising from the loss of
equilibrium between the portion of caloric, which the resin
happens to contain at any moment, and its capacity to re
ceive that fluid at the same instant.           The object of the pre
sent  letter  is  to   demonstrate, that the faculty of this body
to absorb the calorific principle may be lessened, by forcibly
diminishing the magnitudes of its pores, and this essential
point of the theory may be confirmed by experiment ; for
the specific gravity      of  a slip  of caoutchouc   is increased, by
peeping it   extended while       it is weighed in water.
                                                        JOHN GOUGH.
                                                        VIII.  Remarks

     VIII.  Remarks on Urine, and the Prognostics which are
            derivedfrom.it.       By Dr. COLLBNBUCH*.
   -L HE superstitious ideas and erroneous opinions of the mul
  titude, and even of many persons otherwise well informed,
  but ignorant of medicine, have made me think that it would
  be more useful to explain to that part        of the public who      are
  strangers to the healing art, the phaenomena which are pro
  duced, whether in a state of health or sickness, than to make
  known empirical rules and modes of treatment, which are
  more dangerous than useful.
     This object has been already partly fulfilled in different
  physiological and anatomical treatises, destined for those
  who are not physicians ; but let me only say a few words on
  a subject on which too many persons have false ideas, viz.
  on urine, and the prognostics derived from it.
     The kidneys are destined to secrete from the blood the
 fluid known by the name of urine, and which cannot re
 main in the blood without prejudice to the health.                  The
 constituent parts of this fluid are different according to the
 age  of the individual,   the season   of the year, food, drink, and
 other circumstances     ;  but in general the urine contains what
 is called salt of urine, a little common salt, some calcareous
 earth, and mucus.       These substances, according to circum
 stances, are dissolved in more or less water.      The colour, smell,
 and taste  of urine vary according to        the proportion    of these
 ingredients to the quantity of water. Thus, if suitable quan
 tities of salt, lime, &c., are dissolved in a proportionate
 quantity of water, the result will be urine of a citron-yellow,
and which has a particular smell and taste,            such as is found
in the urine    of a person in a state     of health  ; but if the pro
portion of    water is too great     relatively to   other  substances,
the colour of the urine becomes clearer, and the smell and
taste weaker.      Supposing a contrary mixture, i.e, if these
.-iubstances be dissolved in a smaller quantity of water, the
urine takes a darker colour, a stronger taste and smell, and it
will become more yellow, and of a deep or clear red. If
it contains other substances,       for example,    a  quantity of bile,
         •                 • From
                                  the German.                         its

                         Remarks on Urine.                                     4i
its colour will become        of a   saffron -yellow ;    if the   bile is cor
rupted it will become green, and black if there be any mix
ture of blood in the urine, as, for instance, in putrid fevers.
   Thus it is from the appearance of the urine we are enabled
to judge of the nature of the forces of the body, and of the
different combinations of its constituent parts ; and on that
account we have recourse to that fluid for the purpose of de
termining the state of the forces and humours of a patient.
   1. Let us judge if these forces are active or not.    We
caliybrcei those qualities 6Y the body by which it performs its
functions in the order and manner that are convenient.
These forces may be more or less active. If we wish to give
action to a force which is rather inert, we excite it by irrita
tion.     For example, when we fed              a   tickling in    the soles   of
the feet, the toes and        the foot immediately contract            :   since
the skin or the fibres        have this power         of contracting them
selves by the influence         of irritation,       it thence results, that
the veins, which every where traverse the body, shrink, and
consequently can only conduct a smaller quantity of the
blood —merely the aqueous particles ; and if a similar con
traction takes place in the region of the kidneys, they will
receive only the aqueous parts of the blood, and will secrete
a clear   urine like water.          This is what     takes place in fevers
when   shivering fits are experienced. But this quality of
urine, which in this case announces an augmentation of
forces, may, under other circumstances, announce a weak
ness and relaxation      of     particularly in the kidneys,
                              the body,
which then make their secretions less perfectly. Such urine
may indicate great danger, and even death.         If it comes
from persons attacked by inflammatory fevers, it announces
that the blood is so thick, viscous, or near being coagulated,
that drinks cannot mix with            it,   and ate voided almost with
out alteration.     I   mean    to state hereafter the consequences
which result from this difference in prognostics         means       by
of urine.
   2. The urine makes us acquainted with the nature of the
constituent parts of the body, and of their relative quantities*
It   enables   us to judge also       if   those parts be strongly united
together, or   if   they are very soluble, and tend to corruption.
                                                                               In

    46                                    Remarks on Urine*
    In   the latter case the urine                will    be   of   a deeper brown colour,
    and often black,                and its smell will be            as fcetid as   the urine
    of a   person in good health which has been allowed to stand
    3 long time, especiallyin a warm exposure. If the urine,
                                           if
    then, at the moment of evacuation, has already acquired a
              and if- the colour of it is dark bjown, it may
    foetid smell,
 be safely concluded that the humours of the body are ex
 tremely soluble, and have a tendency to putrefaction.
   If, by accident, any one of the constituent parts of the
 humours is augmented ; if the secretion of a part of them,
 which, being hurtful or                    useless to the body, ought to be se
 parated from
                            it,    is   arrested,— for example, the secretion of
 sweat     ;      or   if   the humours destined         for other functions (bile
 for instance) enter into the blood,   follows necessarily thatit
 the quantity  of the constituent parts of the blood, and of
course of the urine also, will be changed and thus the urine          :
will take other colours and other qualities.
  Thus when perspiration          suppressed, at least
                                                     is  the                          if
matter which should be exuded does not recoil into another
channel,           the consequence               will     be an abundant discharge           of
clear and limpid urine.
   If bile be mixed with the blood, supposing the bile to be
in  ffood state the urine will become saffron yellow
     a                                                                                  :   if
                                                                                             it
be corrupted, the urine will become green or black.
     If the       urine     is    turbid, or    of   a    clear brown,    it   indicates that
the functions               of    the body are disturbed,              and   that secretion
can nut be made in the proper manner.                                 This urine,    because
it   has      a    resemblance to those of certain animals,                         is   called
urina jumentosa.
   The urine of itself never proves any thing positively other                      :
circumstances of the malady must confirm the presumptions
which         the appearance               of   the urine had enabled us to form             ;
and      it   iswrong to examine first the urine, and the
                   very
other symptoms of the disease afterwards.    If the physician
takes the uncertain signs of the urine as certain prognostics
of   the disorder, the patient  may, in his turn, regard that as
a   certain sign of the ignorance of his physician.
     To prove what       advance, I shall only cite an example.
                                                   I
Black urine indicates corrupted bile; or with one who has
                                                                                    strained

              Dr. Thornton     on Pneumatic Medicine.                  47
strained himself,     or met with bruises      or violent treatment,
it indicates the absorption of       coagulated    blood.        In putrid
fevers it announces the dissolution       of humours       ;  it  may also
indicate the suppression of htemorrhoides, or the courses :
and in women in childbed, the suppression of the lochia.
    But supposing that a man who has been severely beaten
in some scuffle, or trampled under foot, attempts to heal
himself by domestic medicines alone, but still feels a con
tinuance of pains in his back and body ; and that, after
bathing the parts with wine, or using some similar remedy,
 he finds to his great surprise, at the end of three or four
 days, that his urine is black, — immediately he sends it to
 his physician and asks what is his disorder, — as if the phy
 sician could know it by divination.         If the physician is not
 aware   of  the real cause   of the disorder,    he never     will divine
 that the patient has received blows, that hi»back is marked
 with black and yellow spots, and that his body contains co
 agulated   blood, of which a part, however, escapes into the
 urine.
     He will more likely say, if putrid fevers are then raging,
 that the patient labours under that species of fever, and that
 he will die soon ; or, perhaps, he will name some of the dis
 orders above mentioned as giving this blackness to the urine,
 according as he finds more or less resemblance in the ap
 pearance    of that fluid  to the indications      which      we usually
 expect from it    of various disorders.
  IX.   Twenty -sixth Communication from. Dr. THORNTON,
                  relative to Pneumatic Medicine.
                            To  Mr. Tilloch.
                                         No. 1, Hinde-strcet, Manchester-
        DEAR SIR,                             square, Feb. 18, 1806.
  AIAVINO      saved the life   of a first cousin,     sir  John Braith-
  waite, (who by mistake took a two ounce phial of laudanum
  for another draught,) by means of acids and the inhalation of
  vital air, I had confidence in this practice, and a few days
  back tried it in a very decided case.
                                                                    A gen-

  48           Dr. Tftornton   on Pneumatic Medicine*
    A  gentleman in the vigour of life meeting with a great
 disappointment, had not the resolution to bear up against
 the shock, and he formed the horrid plan of self-murder.
 The pistol disappointing        him  in going off,    he took    two
 ounces    of laudanum, which he had -procured in smaller
 portions at different shops. The apothecary in the neigh
 bourhood, Mr. Goodehild of Park-street, was sent for, who
 got down a scruple of vitriolated zinc, one of the quickest
 and most powerful     of our emetics.    Not finding this    to act,
 he gave the same dose,       and repeated  it until  a drachm was
 taken, with a scruple      of tartar emetic l but such was the
 torpor   of  the stomach,     that, as in the case of sir John
 Braithwaite, no emetic effect was produced.         In this state I
 was sent for, and I found the patient, a gentleman in the
 army, of noble birth, convulsed l his eyes swimming in
death ; cold clammy sweats came on ; the pulse scarcely
 perceptible, intermittent,       and hardly beating after each
convulsion, the head hung pendent upon the shoulder. As
soon as I entered the house I ordered vinegar to be brought
up, and lemon juice to be procured ; and diluting the vine
gar with a little water, pressing down the tongue, I poured
the vinegar into the cesophagus, and afterwards I got down
more than three lemons mixed with a little water. The
effect  of the acid was instantly perceptible; the eyes opened ;
the senses returned    ; the  convulsion for the time ceased    3 and
the   stomach having imbibed the oxygen from the acid,
which is according to Girtanner the irritable principle, or, as
must be allowed, the sine qua non of irritability, it became
sensible to the emetic, and the stomach disgorged its con
tents. More acid being got down, and plentiful dilution,
what was thrown       up was free from all acidity, and reason
resumed its empire ; but still a sense of great drowsiness
prevailed, \vith occasional spasm*. The vital air was now
procured, which Mr. Ince of York Buildings administered l
and the gentleman, after inhaling a gallon diluted with
twice    that   quantity of atmospheric, expressed himself
   greatly revived." — This being repeated gave the muscles
.<
their tone, the spasms recurred with diminished violence,
and the patient    " felt less languor."   To   be brief: he passed
                                                          a restless

                                  On a new Black Dye:                                            49
         night, slept towards morning ; awoke with head
a restless
ache; took  his breakfast of coffee in bed ; got up to dinner,
and was as well as ever the following day.
                 Observations         on this Case by         Dr. Thornton.
   } . Opium deprives   the svstem of its oxygen ; that                                    is,   it
renders the fibres less attractive of that principle and hence                :
oxygenated metals, presenting less affinity to the fibres of
the stomach, are not decomposed, and fail of counteract
ing      the fatal     effects        of opium.         The     vegetable      acids       easily
give out their oxygen;                      that     is, the elective attraction                 is
greater here, and they, therefore, at once counteract the ef
fects of laudanum.
   2.  have had two cases where this poison has been taken
          I
into the stomach, and tried acids with the same marked
benefit and the bad effect of the laudanum was soon re
            J
moved, especially when the vital air has been inhaled.
  3.    am called
         I          Dr. Rowley " vital air and gas mad
                                 by                                                              ;"
but stand not alone, as Dr. Beddoes assures me, in     letter                          a
last week received,
                                  "
                       that he continues to order the different
airs in various diseases, df which practice he entertains the
same favourable opinion as ever." — Dr. Rowley calls my re
futation         of his    cases      *   personal     scurrility and abuse            — can
                                                                                       :
any thing be more so than hranding regular physicians                                       with
the appellation of madness                  ?
                                                   I    remain, sir,
                                          Your obedient humble servant,
                                                 Robert John Thornton'.
X.        On a new Black Dye to                be applied to all Kinds of Linens
           and Stuffs.  By Air.                Hermbstaedt, Berlin^.
 X he black colours which                      are commonly              applied to linen
and cotton stuffs are composed                        of iron     and vinegar. Their
base      is    always oxide of iron, which                is   mixed with decoctions
     •
         My    new work,   in-   answer to Dr. Rowley,        is    entitled Vaccina; Vindicia,
or   A   Vindication   of the Cow-pock.
f        From Biblioth. Phys. Economise,           an xiv. no. 2.
Vol.      24.   No. 93. Feb.           1806.          D                                          of

   50                        On a new Black Dye.
   of wood of different kinds. All these colours incline either
   to red or blue, and they resist but feebly the action of the
   air, of water, and of acids. The tincture which I have
   composed, and which I use dailv in dyeing all kinds of
   cotton, silk, or wool stuffs to an unalterable black, embraces
  an intimate union         of  the  oxide of iron with that of copper
   and the pyro-ligneous acid.
                 Preparation      of the Pyro-ligneom Acid.
.
  ' Take    a   tubulated retort made of plate iron, or of cast iron,
  which is better, place it in a furnace in such a manner that
   the neck be perfectly free, and the bottom receive directly
  the heat of the fire. It must be luted carefully, and there
  must be introduced into the retort some chestnut wood cut
  into small bits. The distillation then commences with a
  very moderate fire, which is progressively increased till no
  more liquid passes into the receiver. The acid which is
  found in the receiver, mixed with a kind of oil, may be se
   parated from it by a filter of gray paper: the wood will be
  reduced    to charcoal      in the retort.
                     Preparation     of the Oxide of Iron.
      Dissolve 4 pounds of vitriol (sulphate) of iron, very pure,
  in  24 pounds of rain water.              Dissolve in like manner 4
  pounds of potash in •! 2 pounds of filtered water. These two
  solutions,     whe\i well mixed, will appear at the beginning of
  a deep   green; but in a little time the surface exposed to the
  air will take     a   dark red colour; then pour the whole or} a
  filter of linen     :  the oxide which will remain after the water
  has   passed ought to be washed          in  a great deal   of water,  to
  free it from all adhering salt.          Leave this oxide exposed on
  a plate to the action or the atmosphere, which            will reduce it
  to a state   of  red oxide.
                  Preparation       of the Oxide of  Copper..
      To  prepare       this oxide, take a pound of blue vitriol of
  Cyprus (sulphate of copper), which dissolve in 12 pounds
  of rain water : make it boil, and mix with it a poimd of
  water saturated with potash, and you will obtain a green
  precipitate, which must be well washed after being filtered.
                                                               Preparation

               On the Respiration       of Atmospheric Air.          51
              Preparation   of  the    Mordant     for Black.
    Take three parts of the oxide of iron and one part of the
oxide of copper : triturate them in a marble mortar, and pour
on them the necessary quantity of pyro-ligneous acid to dis
solve them.       Filter the whole to separate the thick parts,
and the mordant is made.
          Application of this Mordant in dyeing Blach.
    Steep the stuffs intended to be dyed in this mordant         thick-
piled at pleasure.      Afterwards proceed to the dyeing in the
ordinary    deceptions   made with different dye-woods. The co
lour obtained will be a very beautiful black, and almost un
changeable     by all chemical agents.         If the black is meant to
serve for printing stuffs or cloths, it is thickened very much,
and by mixing it with different tinctures of dye-wood, it will
form a black equally beautiful and lasting.
XI.     New    Experiments on the Respiration of Atmospheric
    Air,   chiefly with respect to the Absorption of Azote and
    tlio Respiration of Gaseous Oxide of Azote. By Pro
   fessor PFAFF,      of Kiel*.
 J. HE    great discoveries in pneumatic chemistry, and the ap
 plications, as ingenious as useful, which have been made of
those discoveries to explain the phaenomena of the ceconomy
 of organized beings (above all, of animal ceconomy), and the
 careful researches    of the most distinguished naturalists,      have
 contributed much to clearing up the doctrine of the chemical
 effects of respiration .     There has been a general agreement
 among physiologists on some of the most essential points of
 this theory, as well as upon the production of carbonic acid,
 the employment of oxygen gas, and the production of ani
 mal heat which depends on it.              But, notwithstanding the
 zeal   of naturalists, there   are still some points which are not
 sufficiently clear ; and (he want of agreement in the results
 of experiments on those points proves that it was necessary
                   * from the Arma.lt!. de Chimie, No. 164.
                                                                      to

 59           On the Respiration of Atmospheric              Air.
 to make new efforts to remove those errors, and to discover
  also their sources.         The    researches   of  the celebrated     Davy
 have happily succeeded            for this end   ; and   his  "   Researches
  Chemical     and      Philosophical,       chiefly concerning Nitrous
 Oxide, &c. &c." form, in this point of view, a new epoch
 in the chemical doctrine of respiration. The celebrated edi
 tors of the Bibliotheque Britannique               have   shown that they
 appreciated     the value     of  these researches by giving an extract
 from them, very minute and instructive, in their excellent
journal *; and the manner in which Berthollet has given us
 another extract in the Annates de Chimie ought to fix the
 attention of all chemists on the work of M,r. Davy.                      The
 differences that were found in the results of preceding ex
 periments on the quantity of carbonic acid prpduced in the
 act   of respiration,       were    less important,     and might depend
 entirely on the difference of vital powers in different indi
 viduals who have been made subjects of these experiments;
 and in this     point of view, a revision of these experiments
 was of less consequence. But the part which azotic gas
 performs in the act of respiration had been too little appre
 ciated by chemists.           It  had been common to attribute to          it
 a  purely passive part.          Goodwyn alone believed that he had
 observed a very considerable absorption of azotic gas ; but
 his experiments had not been made with all due exactness,
and were too much            in contradiction with      the experiments    of
Lavoisier,     Seguin, Abernethy, Fothergill, Menzies, &c, to
command attention.               The experiments made on the slow
combustion of phosphorus, which did npt succeed in pure
oxygen gas, and which is so much favoured by the concur
rence   of the azotic gas of the atmospheric air, might serve
to guide us in determining the service which this great quan
tity of azote renders in respiration.             Arid a notice, unfortu
nately too short, of the results of the last experiments of
the immortal Lavoisier upon respiration, supports this view
of the subject. According to his results, a greater quantity
of oxygen gas was decomposed in the same time by the re
spiration of the atmospheric air than by the respiration of
      * ride torn. xi j. xx. ni. is the department of Arts and Sciences.
                                                                      oxygen

              On the Respiration      of Atmospheric Air.              S3
oxygen gas.        But hitherto we had only had probabilities, or
results of which the solidity could not be properly ascer
tained. It is to Davy that we owe an exact and well founded
knowledge      of   the active   part which azotic gas performs in
the act of respiration.        But the more that these results were
new and interesting, the more they deserved to be confirmed
by the agreement of the experiments of other chemists; and
it was from this view that I undertook, last winter, a series
of experiments on the respiration of atmospheric air, and
the respiration       of  the gaseous oxide     of azote, of which      I
submitted the principal results to the National Institute.
Experiments        on    the  Respiration  of Atmospheric Air and
                             of Oxygen    Gas.
    These experiments have been undertaken in the acade
mical laboratory of the university of Kiel, (which is provided
with all the exact apparatus of modern chemistry ,) for the
most part in common with my scholars, and particularly
with one     of them of the name of Dierks, who made himself
most frequently tlie subject of experiments.
    That I might determine with exactness the changes which
the atmospheric air undergoes by respiration, and be able
to decide the absorption        of azotic  easi  it was necessary to set
out,   as  from   a  solid foundation,    with the diminution which
a determined volume           of atmospheric air     experiences  by re
spiration.      It  is therefore the first point to be determined by
exact experiments.
    1.  There were respired 170 cubic inches of air (Paris mea
 sure) from one of the great reservoirs of a gasometer con
 structed at Paris (after the model of that of Charles, upon
 water covered with oil, to hinder the absorption of carbonic
 acid gas produced by respiration),         once in the space    of from
 10 to 12 seconds.          The diminution was 4- 72 cubic inches,
  =  rfo  of the   primitive volume.      This experiment, repeated
 tiventy times in the same manner, afforded the same result.
    2. 144 cubic inches were respired in the space of from
 10 to 12 seconds; the diminution was 4 inches, = -fa of
 the whole volume.
    3. The same volume was respired twice during 82 seconds.
The diminution amounted to 8 cubic inches, = -ii7 of the
                                    D  3-                      primitive

54            On the Respiration     of Atmospheric Air.
primitive volume.          The  same volume, having been respired
three times during 30 seconds, the diminution             amounted to
 12  cubic inches, = fa of the primitive volume.
    4. Sixty cubic inches were respired three times during
 25 seconds: the diminution was 6 cubic inches, = .fa of the
primitive volume.
    5.  1 70  cubic inches were respired four times during one
minute    :  the diminution     amounted to 20 cubic inches. This
experiment was repeated several times. The diminution was
almost always the same, 18, 19, 21, or 20 cubic inches,
    6. 168 cubic inches being respired during 50 seconds, at
four great and four small respirations, were diminished by
 14, = .yij. of their primitive volume.
    7. 430 cubic inches underwent, at twelve respirations in
90 seconds, a diminution of 24, = .fa.
    These results agree very well with those obtained by Mr.
Davy on the diminution of air by respiration.              Davy found
the diminution by a single respiration = fa.                By respira
tion continued for       a minute, the diminution was =         fa.
   The   greatness    of  the diminution    does not depend    alone on
the time during which a given volume            of air is respired, but
principally on the        greatness of the volume itself: and this
diminution ought to be relatively as much less as the volume
of air that is inhaled is greater. There is undoubtedly a very
essential error in the conclusions of Abernethy, inasmuch as
he assigned to the expired air a greater volume than to that
which was inhaled.           And the calculations of Goodwyn rest
upon very     untenable     grounds, since he supposes the volumes
of both to be equal.
   To determine comparatively the diminution of oxygen gas
by respiration, 170 cubic inches of oxygen gas, drawn from
manganese, were respired in the same manner, and under the
same circumstances, as the above (vide 5.) 170 cubic inches
of atmospheric air. The diminution amounted to 30 cubic
inches; in      the other experiments to 33, 29, 31          : thus, by
a mean term, to       fa of   the primitive volume.
   This diminution,         being established in a precise manner,
served as a    basis for determining the absorption of azotic gas.
   8.  Eighty cubic inches        were   respired  once, and slowly,
                                                                 during

                On the Respiration     of Atmospheric Air.             5i
during      a  space   of from    10 to 12 seconds;      and the middle
quantity of the expired air was received over mercury.                 Tn
this respired air the constituent parts in a hundred were 4-16
of carbonic acid gas ; 16-55 of oxygen gas absorbed by slow
combustion         of phosphorus;     and 79-19    of azotic   gas.  An
eudiometrical experiment, made at the same time, gave the
following proportion in the atmospheric air: 1 carbonic
acid, 21 oxygen gas, 78 azotic gas.             The total diminution
ok the     air was, according to the preceding experiments (1.)
==
     7iV-     We find, therefore, the true quantity of azotic gas
by the following proportion: 36 : 35 = 79- 19 : x = 76-90.
   By subtracting these 76-99 from 78, the primitive quan
tity of azotic gas, we have a deficiency of 1-01 ; the volume
of air before respiration being supposed to be divided into 100
parts.       As the quantity of air inspired was = 80 cubic
inches, the absolute diminution of azotic gas by a single
respiration is found by this proportion,           100  : 80  = 1-Ol  : x
 = 0-808 cubic inch.
    9.    In another experiment        60 cubic* inches were respired
once in the space of from 10 to 12 seconds, and the latter
portion of expired air was received over mercury.               The pro
 portion of constituent parts in 100 were, 4-68 of carbonic
acid    gas,    17-68   of oxygen    gas,   77•74  of azotic   gas.  An
eudiometrical        experiment made at the same time, gave, in
 100 parts,      1  carbonic acid, 22 oxygen gas, 77 azotic gas.
To find      the true quantity of azotic gas it is necessary to di
minish the 77-74 of azotic gaaby-yVi which gives, by pro
portion,      36:35 = 77-J4:x. This quantity = 75-58, sub
tracting     the  quantity of azotic gas before respiration, leaves
a loss of 1-42, supposing the volume of air to be divided
into 100 parts.         The  true diminution     is therefore found by
the follosving        proportion,   100   :  60 =   1-42   : x = 0-852
cubic inch.
    10. Thirty cubic inches were respired, in the same man
 ner, three times during 16 seconds. The air which was ex-
spired contained, in 100 parts, 5 of carbonic acid gas, 14-5
of oxygen gas, 80-5 of azotic gas. The atmospheric air
contained, according to an eudiometrical experiment made
at the same time,        l of carbonic acid gas      S0-975 of oxygen
                                    D  4                            gas,

  56           On the Respiration of Atmospheric         Air.
  gas,  S0.025 azotic gas.        We have, then, hy the following
  proportion,     12  :  11   =  80.5 : 73.79; the diminution          =
  4.235.     And in cubic inches by proportion, 100 : 30 =
  4.235 : x = 1.2705.
     These experiments, which were frequently repeated, and
  always gave the same result, establish, therefore, completely
  the absorption of azotic gas in the act of respiration, and
  the active part which this gas performs.           We understand,    at
  the same time, more easily why the azotic gas, comparatively
 with other mephitic gases,        is so little adverse and pernicious
  to our lungs.       According     to the experiments      of Lavoisier
 and Seguin, animals supported life very well           in a mixture  of
  15 parts   of azotic   gas with   1 of oxvgen; although the same
 animals were suddenly suffocated in a mixture of 40 parts of
 oxygen gas, 45 of azotic gas, and 15 of carbonic acid gas.
 We understand,         at least in some      degree, the extraordinary
 effects  of  the   gaseous   oxide   of   azote.   We understand the
 transformation of chyle, being less annualized, less azotized
 in the. lymphatic part of the blood, to be very much ani
malized and very much azotized by the act of respiration,
 &c.     However,      the quantity of azotic gas absorbed by a
single respiration is not very considerable ; which agrees
perfectly with the experiments of t)avy, who, in nineteen
respirations of a volume of 161 cubic inches, absorbed no
more 'than 5. 1 cubic inches of azotic gas.
    11.  To determine       the quantity     of carbonic acid gas pro
duced by the respiration        of atmospheric air, 60 cubic inches
were respired once during 10 or 12 seconds, and received
over the mercury in the expiration.               Lime water absorbed
4*68 in 100 parts.         This experiment, several times repeated,
gave    the   same    result.   The    latter  portion of expired air,
transmitted frequently through lime water, exhibited a di
minution of 4*9 in 100 parts.
    12. Twenty cubic inches, three times respired succes
sively during 10 seconds, showed no more than .j.fo of car
bonic acid gas.
    13. 1 70 cubic inches were respired four times during 50
seconds, and there was obtained tvV °f carbonic gas.
                                                               14.  170

              On the Respiration of Atmospheric      Aiti          57
    14.   170 cubic inches were     respired  from   a  bladder eight
 times in a minute.      The lime water absorbed .£&.
    This quantity of carbonic acid produced by respiration
 gave a term or' comparison to determine the quantity of de
 composition of oxygen gas in the respiration of the same
 quantities of atmospheric! air and of pure oxygen.         The pre
ceding experiment (7.)       had  denoted   that  the  diminution   of
oxygen gas was more considerable than that of atmospheric
 air.   According to this,    one might expect, with the appear
 ance   of probability, that  the production of carbonic acid gas
 should be .also more considerable; which was confirmed by
direct experiments.
    15. 170 cubic inches of oxygen gas obtained from man
ganese were respired four times during 50 seconds : the di
minution was 30 cubic inches. The quantity of carbonic
acid which was produced amounted to .f^j. The atmo
spheric air, respired in the same manner, and under the same
circumstances (13.), contained only .f^ of carbonic acid.
    1 6. Seventy cubic inches, respired from a bladder in the
space    of 50 seconds,   even gave Tl-$  of carbonic acid.
     Experiments     on the Respiration    of  Gaseous   Oxide  of
                                Azote.
    The   gaseous oxide  of  azote was obtained, according to the
process    of Davy, from crystallized nitrate of ammonia. This
nitrate of ammonia gives products very different in different
temperatures.      I undertook on this subject an important
operation,    which   I submitted to the inspection of the Na
tional Institute.     I have only to remark, by the way, that
we obtain at the commencement oxygenated muriatic gas,
if the nitrate of ammonia is not entirely free from muriatic
acid : that at a temperature which does not go beyond the
820th degree of the centigrade thermometer we obtain the
gaseous oxide of azote in very great quantity, and very pure,
and without a mixture of those white vapours which have
the taste   of mustard  ; but at higher temperatures,      and above
all at a red heat, the gaseous oxide of azote is not disen
gaged, but there are formed nitrous gas and white vapours,
                                                                quite

   58         Experiments       and Remarks on d Substance
  quite uncommon          in the analysis        of which I      am at present
  engaged.
     To prevent all explosion, I constantly mix the nitrate of
  ammonia with very pure sand.               To obtain the gaseous oxide
  of azote very pure, the distillation is performed in a sand
 bath, and the fire is managed with great care.                    When the
  whole succeeds well, the gas is so pure that one may respire
  it immediately. It has an agreeable taste, almost saccharo-
 vinous.     If it  is mixed   with   the white vapours produced by an
 excess   of  heat,   it must  be left a sufficient time to separate itself.
 After two or three hours it may be respired without danger.
 The effects which Davy has observed, and which Pictet has
 described in so interesting a manner in his second letter
  (Bibl. Britanniquc, tome xvii. p. 406.), have been perfectly
 confirmed in my experiments.              Many persons who have re
 spired   this  gas    have been    intoxicated      very quickly, and put
 into a state of ecstasy very extraordinary and very agreeable.
 Others have       resisted   its effects  a  little more     ; and one  indi
vidual was not at all affected by it. This state of intoxication
has always passed without leaving a sensible relaxation.                      I
am still continuing these experiments,                  li is not improbable
that this gas may become            a  very important remedy for me
lancholic persons.          I will not fail to communicate the whole
series   of experiments to       the National       Institute.
XII.     Additional Experiments and Remarks on an artificial
     Substance which possesses the principal characteristic Pro
    perties of Tannin.            By CHARLES HATCHETT, Esq.
     F.R.S.
                   [Continued from our last volume, p. 326."]
                                     §IV.
A MADE       several unsuccessful attempts            to form the artificial
substance     by means      of oxyrauriatic acid         ;  and it therefore
appeared      certain, that although a variety of the tanning
matter could be produced by the action of sulphuric acid
on resinous substances, yet the most effective agent was
                                                                       nitric

                possessing        the Properties             ofTann-ai,                            59
nitric acid, which readily formed it when applied to any sort
of coal.
   But I nevertheless suspected, that possibly this substance,
or something similar to            it,
                            might be produced without abso
lutely converting vegetable bodies into coal for seemed, as         ;         it
I have observed in my former paper, that this only served
to separate the carbon in     great measure from the other
                                            a
elementary principles (excepting oxygen) which were com
bined with   in the original substance, and thus to expose
               it                                                                                   it
more completely to the effects of the nitric acid, as well as
to prevent the formation               of   the various acid products,                   which
are so constantly afforded               by     the organized substances                     when
thus treated.        At first     I    had      some    thoughts of employing
touchwood in this experiment                    :   but not being able immedi
ately to procure any,   occurred to me that indigo might
                                  it
probably answer the purpose    for from some experiments
                                              ;
made      by   myself, as well as from those described                                  by   Berg
man*,    I     well knew that the proportion of carbon                                   in    this
substance    very considerable. The following experiment
               is
was therefore made            :
  1. On one hundred grains of fine indigo which had been
put into  long matrass, one ounce of nitric acid diluted with
           a
an equal quantity of water was poured and as the action of     ;
the acid was almost immediate and extremely violent, an
 other ounce        of water       was added.                When        the effervescence
 had nearly subsided, the vessel was placed in                                 a    sand-bath
 during several days, until the whole of the                                       liquid          was
 evaporated.
    On the residuum, which was of                             a    deep orange           colour,
 three ounces of boiling distilled water                      were poured,              by   which
a   considerable part was dissolved.
     The colour of the solution was                      a most beautiful deep yel
 low,    and    the bitter flavour            of    it   surpassed in intensity that
 of any substance in my recollection                         ;   it     was examined                    by
 the following reagents:
                                                                   ^
    Sulphate of iron produced     slight pale yellow precipitate.
                                                a
    Nitrate of lime only rendered       little turbid alter which
                                                    it   a                     ;
     •
         Analytit   Chcm.ua   Pigmmti IncKci.            Opuscuh       Berg. torn. v.   p.   36.
                                                                                         a     small

do          Experiments and Remarks on a Substance
a small portion     of white powder subsided, which had the
characters    of oxalate of lime.
   Muriate of tin produced ar cdpious white precipitate, which
afterwards changed to a yellowish-brown.
   Acetite of lead formed a very beautiful deep lemon-co
loured precipitate, which possibly may prove useful as a
pigment.
   Ammonia       rendered    the colour much deeper ; after            which
the liquor became turbid, and a large quantity               of fine yellow
spiculated crystals was        deposited,   which     being dissolved in
water did not precipitate lime from its solutions.
   The flavour of these crystals was very bitter, and I suspect
them to be composed of ammonia combined with the bitter
principle first noticed by Welther*.
   Lastly, when dissolved isinglass was added to the yellow
solution of indigo, it immediately became very turbid, and
a bright yellow substance        was gradually deposited, and coated
the sides of the glass jar with a tough elastic film, which
was insoluble in boiling water, and possessed the characters
of gelatine combined with tanning matter.
   By this experiment       I   therefore ascertained,        that a variety
of   the artificial tanning substance       could be formed without
previously converting        the vegetable body into coal ; and I
have since discovered,         that although indigo more readily
yields this substance than most of the other vegetable bodies,
yet in fact, very few of these can be regarded as exceptions,
when subjected to repeated digestion and distillation with
nitric acid.
   2. —A.       In my former paper I have stated, that common
resin, when treated with nitric acid, yielded a pale yellow
solution with water, which did not precipitate gelatine, and
that it was requisite to develop part of the carbon in the
state  of  coal by. sulphuric     acid, before any of the tanning
substance    could be produced       ; but having again made some
of  these experiments,      I  repeated the abstraction        of nitric acid
several times,     and then observed,       that the solution of resin
 in water   acted upon gelatine similar to the solution             of indigo
          * Thomson's
                       System of Chemistry,  2d edit. vol. iv. p. 246.
                                                                       which

                  possessing    the Properties   of Tannin.               6.1
which     has been described, and formed a tough yellow                pre
cipitate, which        svas  insoluble in boiling water.
    With     other reagents the effects were as follosv        :
    Sulphate of iron, after          12  hours, formed a slight yellow
precipitate.
    Nitrate of lime did not produce any effect.
    Muriate of tin, after 12 hours, afforded a pale brown pre
cipitate.
    And     acetite   of lead immediately formed         a very  abundant
precipitate     of  a yellowish white colour.                      »
    I repeated this experiment on common resin, and re
marked, that during each distillation nitrous gas was pro
duced, whilst the strength of the acid which came over was
diminished      :  the    cause therefore     of the change in    the pro
perties    of  the resin     seemed to me very        evident, and   I  was
induced to extend           the experiments     to various resinous and
other substances         ;   but as the process was uniformly the
.-.urn-,  I shall  only    notice  the principal effects.
    B. Stick lac, when separated from the twigs, and treated
as  above described, copiously precipitated gelatine.
    C. Balsam of Peru during the process afforded some
benzoic acid, and gelatine was precipitated by the aqueous
solution.
    D. Benzoin also, after           the sublimation     of some benzoic
acid, yielded a residuum, which with water formed a pale
yellow solution of a very bitter flavour.
    This solution with sulphate of iron            afforded a slight    pale
yellow precipitate.
    With nitrate of lime not any effect was produced.
    The solution with muriate of tin became turbid, and                     a
small quantity of brownish-white precipitate subsided.
    Acetite of lead immediately produced a copious pale yel
low precipitate.
    And solution of isinglass formed            a dense yellow precipi
tate,    which    was   insoluble   in  boiling water.
    E. Balsam of Tolu, like balsam of Peru, and benzoin,
afforded     some     benzoic     acid ; and the residuum being        dis
solved in water was found to precipitate gelatine.
    F. As the results of the experiments on                dragon-s   blood
                                                                       were

<53        Experiments and Remarks on a Substance
were somewhat remarkable,                I  shall here more particularly
relate them.        One hundred grains of pure dragon-s blood,
reduced     to powder, were digested in a long matrass              with one
ounce of strong nitric        acid  ;  the colour immediately changed
to deep yellow, much nitrous gas was evolved, and to abate
the effervescence one ounce of water was added.                      The di
gestion was continued until a deep yellow dry mass re
mained; and the matrass being still kept in the sand-bath, a
brilliant feather-like sublimate             arose,  which weighed rather
more than six grains, and had the aspect, odour, and pror
perties of benzole acid-*.
    The residuum was of a brown colour, and with water
formed a golden yellow-coloured                solution,   which by nitrate
of lime was not affected.
    With sulphate of jron it          afforded    a brownish-yellow        pre
cipitate.
    With muriate of tin the result was similar.
    With acetite of lead a lemon-coloured precipitate was
produced.
    Gold    was precipitated by it         in the metallic  state, whilst the
glass vessel acquired a tinge           of purple :
    And dissolved isinglass produced a deep yellow                   deposit,
 which was insoluble in boiling water.
    A   portion    of  the same dragon-s blood was simply exposed
 to heat in the same matrass, but not any appearance                  of ben-
 zoic acid could be discovered.                I am therefore induced to
 believe, that in the first experiment it was obtained as a pro
 duct, and not       as an educt : a      fact which    as yet has  not been
 suspected.
    G. Gum ammoniac             afforded      a brownish yellow solution,
 the flavour     of which was very bitter and astringent.
    By sulphate of iron, this solution only became of                a  darker
 colour,     but did not form any precipitate.
   * According to these experiments, dragon-s blood ought to be
                                                                       arranged
 with benzo n and the balsams; but as the sample* of this drug are not alwayi
 precisely similar, it would be proper to examine every variety.   That which
 was employed in my experiments, was a porous mass of a dark red, and
 was sent to me by Messrs. AIlen and Howard, of Plough-court, in Lom
 bard street.
                                                                      Nitrate

              possessing the Properties   of Tannin.           (53
   Nitrate  of lime   rendered it turbid,  and  produced a slight
precipitate.
   Muriate of tin formed a copious yellow precipitate.
   Acetite of lead produced a similar effect :
    And gelatine yielded a bright yellow deposit, which was
completely insoluble by boiling water.
    II. Asa fuetida yielded a solution which also precipitated
gelatine like the substances above described.
    I. Solutions of elemi, tacamahac, olibanum,         sandarach,
copaiba, mastich, myrrh, gamboge, and caoutchouc, were
next examined ; but these, although they precipitated the
metallic solutions, did not affect gelatine. It is possible,
however, that they might have produced this effect, had
they been subjected to a greater number          of repetitions of
the process.
    K. Sarcocol, in its natural   state, as well as the gum sepa
rated from    it by water, when treated with nitric acid, did not
 precipitate gelatine; but produced effects on the metallic so
lutions similar to the above-mentioned substances.
    L. Gum arabic afforded oxalic acid, but not any of the
tanning matter.
    M. Tragacanth yielded an abundance of saclactic acid, of
oxalic, and of malic acid, but not the smallest vestige of the
artificial tanning substance.
    N. Manna, when treated with nitric acid in the way above
described, afforded oxalic acid, part of which was sublimed
 in the neck of the vessel.
    The residuum with water formed a brown solution, which
 yielded a pale yellow precipitate with sulphate of iron.
    Muriate of tin produced-a pale brown precipitate.
    Acetite of lead formed one of a brownish-white hue.
    Lime was copiously precipitated from the nitrate of lime
 in the state of oxalate; but not the smallest effect was pro
 duced on solution of isinglass.
    O: Liquorice however afforded a different result ; for al
 though the solution after the process with nitric acid resem-:
 bled in appearance that which was yielded by manna, yet the
 effects were not the same.
                                                          Sulphate

C4         Experiments and Remarks on a Sulstance
    Sulphate of iron, after twelve hours,               produced     a   slight
brown precipitate.
    Muriate of tin had a similar effect.
    Acetite of lead formed a brownish-red deposit.
    Nitrate of lime also occasioned a brown precipitate :
    And solution of isinglass rendered it very turbid, and                 pro
duced a yellowish-brown           precipitate, which was insoluble in
boiling water, and possessed all the other characters of gela
tine combined with the tanning substance.
    P. Guaiacum,         the properties of which        are so singular       in
many respects, afforded results          (when treated with nitric acid
in  the manner which has been described) different from the
resins, although its external and general characters seem to
indicate that it appertains to those bodies.
    Nitric acid acted upon it with great vehemence, and
speedily dissolved it. The residuum which was afterwards
obtained, was also found to be almost totally soluble in
water, and the solution acted on the metallic salts like those
which have already been noticed ; but with gelatine it formed
only a very slight precipitate, which was immediately dis
solved by boiling water ; and the remainder of the solution
being evaporated, yielded a very large quantity of crystal
lized oxalic acid ; so that in this respect guaiacum was
found to resemble the gums, and to be totally unlike the
resins*.
                                    §   V.
    As many       vegetable    substances    when roasted yield by de
coction a liquid which           in appearance much resembles the
artificial tanning matter when dissolved in water, I roasted
some of the common dried peas, horse-beans, barley, and
wheat flour, the decoctions of which however did not afford
any precipitate by solution of isinglass.
   * The properties of guaiacum which have      been described, as well a* those
which were previously known, appear to indicate, that it is a peculiar sub
stance of a nature distinct from the resins, balsams, and even the gum resins.
   So remarkable indeed is this substance, that an accurate series of experi
ment! on the whole of its properties may justly be placed amongst the che
mical desiderata.
              3                                                          Even

               possessing   the Properties   of Tannin.                65
   Even the decoction of coffee did not yield any precipitate
by this method, until several hours had elapsed, and I found
that the precipitate so formed was permanently soluble in
boiling water. But to explain this, we must recollect, it is
extremely probable, that some peculiar nicety is required in
the roasting of such bodies before the tanning substance caa
be developed ; and      this seems to be corroborated by some
experiments which 1 made on the decoction of a sort of
coffee prepared from the chicoree                        endive) root,
                                         (I   suppose
which was given me by Sir Joseph. Banks ;            for although this
decoction     did not afford an immediate precipitate with
solution of gelatine, and although the precipitate w as also
apparently dissolved by boiling water, yet upon cooling, the
same precipitate was reproduced in its original state.              I am
therefore inclined to believe, that the tanmng substance is
really developed in many of the vegetabte bodies by heat, but
that a certain degree of temperature, not very easy to deter
mine, is absolutely requisite for this purpose.
   Before I conclude this section, it may be proper to ob
serve,   that when a small quantity      of nitric     acid   was added
to any    of the above-mentioned decoctions,          and when these
had been subsequently evaporated        to dryness, and afterwards
dissolved in ,distilled water,      tbey were converted into a
tanning substance perfectly similar to that which is produced
by the action of nitric acid on the varieties of coal.
                                §  VI.
   In  the preceding paper, a variety     of   the tanning substance
was slightly    noticed, which     was  formed by the action of
sulphuric acid upon common resiri, clemi, amber, &c. &<i.
and as an instance has occurred of the formation of the
same substance from camphor, accompanied by circum
stances which tend to increase our knowledge            of  the proper
ties of  the latter, I shall  here describe this experiment.
         Experiment on Camphor with sulphuric Acid.
   The  effects produced on camphor         by sulphuric      acid have
been but very superficially examined      ;  for all that has hitherto
been stated    amounts to this, that camphor is dissolved by
   Vol. 24. No, 93. Feb. 1806.         E                       sulphuric

66          Experiments and Remarks on a Substance
sulphuric acid, that a brown or reddish-brown solution \9
formed, and that the camphor is precipitated unchanged
from this solution by water.      These facts, however, onty
relate to a certain period of the operation; for, if this belong
continued,           other effects are produced, which               I   shall now
describe.
     A. To       one hundred grains      of
                                       camphor put into a
                                              pure
small glass alembic, one ounce of concentrated sulphuric
acid was added.   The camphor immediately became yellow,
and gradually dissolved, during which the acid progressively
changed to brownish-red, and afterwards to browir. At
this period scarcely any sulphureous acid was evolved, but
in about one hour the liquid became blackish-brown ;
much sulphureous acid gas was then produced, and conti
nued to increase during four hours, when the whole appeared
like   a   thick black liquid, at which period not any_ odour or
appearance       of camphor could be perceived, but only that of
the sulphureous acid. After two days, during which time
the alembic had not been heated, there did not appear any
alteration, unless that the production of sulphureous gas
was much diminished.              The alembic        was then placed in a
sand-bath moderately warm, by whieh more of the sul
phureous gas was obtained, but this also soon began to abate.
After      the    lapse   of two other    days,      I   added gradually       six
ounces      of cold water, by which           the liquid       was changed      to
reddish-brown,   considerable coagulum of the same colour
                          a
subsided, the odour of sulphureous gas, which in some
measure     had still prevailed, was immediatelv annulled, and
was    succeeded by one which resembled a mixture of oils of
lavender and peppermint.
   The whole was then subjected to gradual distillation,
during which the water came over strongly impregnated
with the odour above mentioned, accompanied by a yel
lowish oil, which floated on the top of and which, as farit,
as   could be ascertained,        amounted to about three grains.
     B. When          the whole   of the water was come over, there
was again    slight production of sulphureous gas.
                 a                                        then            I
added  two ounces   of water, which  drew off I  distillation,  by
but did not obtain any of the vegetable essential oil which
                                                                              has

                   possessing the Properties     of Tannin*                67
   has been mentioned, nor did the odour           of it return. I there
   fore  continued the distillation until a dry blackish brown
   mass remained ; this was well washed with warm distilled
   water, by which, however, nothing was extracted ; but when
   two ounces of alcohol were digested on it during twenty-
   four hours, a very dark brown tincture was formed.
      The residuum was digested with two other ounces of al
  cohol in like manner, and the process was repeated until the
  alcohol ceased to act.
      The residuum had now the appearance of a compact sort                   .
  of coal in small fragments, it was then well dried, and after
  exposure to a low red heat in a close vessel weighed fifty -
  three grains.
      Ci The different portions of      the solution formed by alcohol
  were added together, and being distilled by means            of a  water-
  bath,   a  blackish brown substance         was obtained,     which had
  the appearance      of a resin or gum with a alight odour        of caro-
  mel, and weighed 49 grains.
      The products therefore which were thus obtained from IOO
  grains   of camphor when        treated with sulphuric      acid, were,
                                                                      Grains.
.     A. An essential oil which        had   an odour somewhat
  resembling      a  mixture    of lavender and peppermint,
  about         -          -         -         -         -         -3>
     B.  A   compact and very hard sort of coal in small
 fragments                 -         -         -         -         -   53
     C. And     a   blackish brown substance        of  a  resinous
 appearance                -         -         -         -         - 49
                                                                     105
     From this statement it appears, that there was an increase
 in the weight amounting to five »rains, which I attribute
partly to oxygen united to the carbon, and partly to a portion
of water so intimately combined with the last product, that
it could not be expelled        from it by heat without subjecting
it to-decomposition.         The    properties of this substance were
as follows :
     1. It  was extremely brittle,       had  somewhat of the odour
                                     E2                                   of

6*8       Substance possessing   the Properties     of Tanmn.
of caromel,     the flavour was    astringent, and it speedily dis
solved in cold water, and formed with it a permanent dark
brown solution.
    2.   This solution yielded very dark brown precipitates by
 the addition   of sulphate of iron, acetite of lead, muriate of
 tin, and nitrate of lime.
    3. Gold was copiously precipitated by it from its solution
 in the metallic state ; and,
    4. By solution of isinglass, the whole was completely pre
 cipitated, so that, after three       or four hours, a colourless
 water only remained.
    The precipitate was nearly black,           and   was   insoluble in
boiling water ; from which property,             as  well   as   from the
 effect produced upon prepared         skin by the solution, it was
 evident that the substance     thus obtained from camphor was
 a variety   of the artificial tanning matter, much           resembling
 that    which    may be obtained         from    resinous    bodies by
 means of sulphuric acid. But it must be observed that this
 sort of tanning substance seems to act less powerfully on
 skin than that which        is prepared     from carbonaceous sub
 stances by    nitric acid,  and the precipitate which         the former
 produces with solution of gelatine is more flocculent and
 less tenacious than that which in like manner is formed by
 the latter.
     It is however remarkable,      that    when   a small quantity of
 nitric acid    was   added to the solution     of the    substance   ob
 tained from camphor, and when, after evaporating it to
 dryncss, the residuum was dissolved in water, a reddish
 brown liquid was formed, which acted in every respect si
 milar to the tanning substance obtained from the varieties
 of coal by nitric acid.
                            [To be continued.]
                                                                XIII.  On

                                       [    69     J
 XIII.    On tlie Oxides of Gold, Tin, and other Metals; with
     Hints for extending their Uses in Dyeing. Communicated
    in a Letter to M. BERTHOLLET ly M. JOHN MICHAEL
    HAUSSMAN *.
 JL BELIEVE that        I  am as well founded as yourself in admit
 ting of intermediate terms of oxidation between                   the minimum
 and maximum of several metallic substances.                         I shall, by-
 and-by, cite an example of the oxide of tin at                   the minimum
 precipitated from its muriatic solution, and redissolved by an
 excess of caustic potash ; the alkaline metallic solution of
 which I have already mentioned in my observations upon
 the Adrianople red, inserted in the Annales de Cliimie^, as
 well as in another memoir upon the coloured oxides of tin,
 given to the public in the Journal de Physique.                        In avoid
 ing   to dilute the muriatic             solution    of tin too much with
 water, and employing a solution of caustic potash very much
 concentrated, a considerable quantity of caloric disengages
 itself during the mixture of these two liquors : one portion
,of the tin precipitates itself in the metallic state, while the
 other remains in solution in a state of intermediate oxida
 tion. This alkaline solution has so strong an affinity for
 oxygen, that it changes into              a gray    colour the yellow oxide
 of gold    fixed upon a piece of cotton by means of ammonia,
 while a similar yellow piece does not change its colour when
 allowed to soak in a pure liquor of caustic potash.                           The
 same change takes place upon plunging a small piece of
 cotton,    which      had     been   saturated      with a solution of gold,
 well squeezed        and dried,        into an alkaline solution of tin.
 The   same effect will follow if we pour into this alkaline so
 lution a solution of gold diluted with water.
    The change of the yellow colour of the oxide of gold by
 the alkaline solution           of tin  is not the only proof         of  the in
 termediate     oxidation      :  this liquor, besides, possesses the pro
 perty   of extracting      the blackish brown colour            of the oxide of
 manganese       fixed upon a piece          of cotton by       an alkaline pre-
                   • From
                            the dnttalts ite Chimie, Wo. 166.
                   f bcc ri'<l   Mag. vol. xii. and vol. xviii.
                                        E   3                             cipitate.

 70                    On the Oxides        of Gold, Tin, (£c.
cipitate.        All    these      changes      will
                                               more rapidly
                                                       take    place
 if,   before
           performing                         re-solution
                                       the precipitation   by  and
the liquor of caustic potash, the muriatic solution of tin                              is
diluted with six or eight parts of water. In this case there
will be no perceptible extrication of caloric,            will         and there
be no precipitation of tin in  metallic state.
                                            a  This solution,
the oxidation of which approaches to the term of minimum,
preserves    general, without any precipitation of oxide, an
                 in
aqueous transparency.     Exposed for     long time to the at
                                                           a
mospheric air,    does not lose the property of changing the
                        it
yellow o;cide of gold into gray, and of extracting the blackish
brown colour of the oxide of manganese fixed upon         piece              a
of cotton.
   The oxide of manganese may present itself under different
degrees of oxidation.      If we impregnate piece of cotton     a
cloth with    transparent solution of sulphate of manganese,
                 a
it will preserve its whiteness in drying upon plunging the :
piece of cotton cloth thus impregnated into          Solution of       a
potash in    state of carbonate or of causticity,
                a                                     will, when       it
washed, be changed into       brown colour
                                        a                      by
                                                the action of the
atmospheric air. This colour      will acquire    very dark hue, a
almost approaching to black, upon being allowed to remain
some time in an alkaline oxymunatic solution.   This oxy
genated alkaline liquor will assume  purple colour, of more
                                                       a                     a
or less transparent intensity, on leaving therein exposed,                              a
longer or shorter time, some brown precipitate of manganese
in place of   piece of cloth coloured with this metallic sub
                  a
stance, which therein dissolves                  itself, being oxidated          by   the
fluid.
     In   general,   proper to attend to particular results in
                       it    is
exposing all the metallic  oxides to the action of this oxyge
nated muriatic alkaline liquor.   This, perhaps, would be tb«
means         of giving      them acid properties, and           of proving   at the
same      time more and more the gradual oxidation of most
metals.      Above all, may be remarked of the white oxide
                                  it
pf        which becomes gradrally more and more coloured
      lead,
by   along .exposure in this oxygenated liquor, in which                           it   is
necessary, nevertheless, to stir   often.       it
     The muriatic           and    uitro-muriatic solutions of tin, Tery

                 On   the Oxides       of Gold, Tin, &fc.                71
much diluted in water, have an aqueous transparency when
they are well made; but when mixed together, a fine colour,
like that of Malaga wine, is produced ; a circumstance which
could never happen, unless the oxygen of the nitro-muriatic
solution united with the muriatic solution of tin.        If, in a
similar mixture, we pour by little and little, stirring it at the
same time, the solution          of gold with           of acid,
                                                  a great excess
and    diluted in 130 to 160 parts of water, the intensity of
the   colour of a similar mixture will increase .more and more,
and latterly present       a very fine purple tincture,      in which all
sorts   of   stuffs may   te   dyed.     By   making the nitro- muriatic
solution predominate, shades of peach flowers and lilies will
be obtained ; and, on the contrary, shades more or less gray
are obtained by making the muriatic solution of tin predo
minate.     Care must be taken, however, not to employ the
latter in too great abundance, because, in powerfully extri
cating the oxygen from the oxide of gold, it will deoxidate it
too much, and precipitate it. The precipitate produced in
this case is not entirely deprived of oxygen, which hinders
it from gilding silver in the cold, like the ashes produced
from the combustion of a piece of cloth impregnated with a
solution of gold.   The longer or shorter preservation of the
golden tincture will depend entirely upon the proportions of
the two different solutions of tin, more or less overcharged
with acids, and the solution of gold, in which the acid
ought   always greatly to predominate.      In exposing the-
purple tincture of gold, of the most perfect transparency, to
a strong heat, it will decompose itself, and precipitate the
colour known by the name of purple of Cassius, the beauty
of which will depend more or less on the nitro-muriatic so
lution of tin employed, which, mixed by itself with solution
of gold, without      the intervention        of muriate of tin,   produces
no change of colour, and preserves itself a long time without
forming any precipitate, if the mixture is not too much di
luted with water.  The purple tincture of gold      properly,is,
nothing else than the purple of Cassius, kept in solution by
means of the oxygen of the nitro-muriatic solution of tin                 ;
and there     every reason to believe that in the purple of
               is
Cassius the oxide of gold   in some measure combined with
                                  is
                                       E4                               the

 72                 On the Oxides                of Gold, Tin, &c.
the oxide of tin, which, giving up to it its oxygen during
its application to porcelain, hinders, in my opinion, the gold
from reducing itself and regaining its metallic lustre. I
cannot subscribe to the opinion of Dr. Richter, of Berlin,
who asserts, in a memoir which I have not read, to have                                         ,
mathematicallv demonstrated    that the gold of a crimson co
 lour on porcelain is in the metallic state.
    The purple tincture of gold might, perhaps, be made use
 of   to advantage            in   the dyeing               of silks, although    the price
might be. high : the colour obtained from it surpasses every
other in solidity, because there is no combustion which can
destroy it. It will be prudent, however, to agitate the stuffs
 a long time        in   the tincture ; and, to obtain shades more or
less deep, it will be necessary to repeat the immersion                              of   the
stuffs more or less often, taking care to squeeze                               them well,
and drying and shaking them between every immersion.
  The gradation of shades through which a mixture of the
nitro-muriatic       and muriatic solutions                     of tin    passes, weakened
by pouring; into     drop it,drop,   solution of gold with
                                            by              a                              a
great excess of acid, and very much diluted with water, in
dicates, as   think,
                I       gradual oxidation.
                                   a         An acetic solu
tion of iron, even,                appears to ascertain           the same; because,
from    awatery green,  acquires       it                    more and more   reddish
                                                                                 a
yellow cast when exposed to the atmospheric air, or in con
tact with oxygen gas.
 I   have made    appear,it     memoir upon the tincture of
                                             in   a
the alkaline mars of Stahl, that the sulphate of ifon may
also hyper.oxygenate itself, and lose the excess of oxygen                                 by
the action of light.               In making            a     mixture of the concen
trated sulphuric acid and the nitric- solution of iron, ob                           I
tained, after the evaporation of the nitric acid, and upon
making the residue attract the humidity of the air,                                  by   al
lowing   it   to rest    a    few months, crystals                   of hyper.oxygenated
sulphate of iron, which    could scarcely distinguish, owing
                                       I
to their whiteness, from sulphate of alumine but the action               ;
of light gradually yellowed the surface       their whiteness         :
                                                     We may
                                                 a by
could be restored, however,       slight washing.       a
in   the same       manner procure     sulphate of iron hyper-oxy
genated,    a   little similar in whiteness,                    by
                                                precipitating the ni
                                                                                     trate

         Partial Fusion of Metal ly            the   Electric Discharge.          73
trate    of iron,     and dissolving this precipitate (sweetened,                and
freed from the greater part             of    the water), by little and little,
with sulphuric            acid, which        ought to be concentrated, in
order to obtain, without evaporation, crystal;, of sulphate of
hyper-oxygenated iron.    This salt possesses an incompara
ble astrm&jency.
     Thf operation of          the transmission         of oxygen    appears to
manifest itself the more upon pieces of linen simply dipped
in acetate of iron, and maddered, since we are obliged, in
order to bleach them completely, to expose them a long time
in the field,   we do not choose to make use of the artificial
                    it-
process of bleaching.  The printed parts of these pieces of
cloth are often weakened, and appear sometimes as   pierced          if
w.-tii   a   sharp instrument, or burned with aconcentrated acid:
such     circumstance could not occur,except from the action
         a
of   the oxygen of the coloured oxide of iron, oxygen being
successively restored to this oxidable body                by   the atmospheric
air.
     Minerals do not          present    the only substances         which ox
idate gradually, and           by   intermediate terms.
    Indigo furnishes          a proof that vegetables (and         I     may add
als<i that animals)           will produce similar results          ;    for so
                                                                             a
lution of any kind of indigo    except, however, the sulphate
                                         (1
of indigo) may, in de oxidating or in recovering oxygen,
pass through all the degrees of the shades of blueish green,
even to that of     very yellow olive, and yet preserve the
                          a
same quantity          of indigo in solution.           The   beauty and soli
dity of      the   blues for dyeing, and of
                                    the blue for pencilling,
depend much on the different degrees of oxidation.
     XIV.      On the partial Fusion   Metah   of           ly
                                                   the Electric
                  Discharge.   By a Correspondent.
                               To   Mr. Tilloch.
     MR,
J.   TAKE     the liberty     of sending you      some further experiments
and observations on the partial fusion                 of thin   plates    of   me
tal, &c. an account of which you was so kind                     as to    insert hi
                                                                                your

74      Partial Fusion of Metal                   ly   the   Electric Discharge.
your Magazine of March 1805, under the title of      A new                                "
Electrical Phenomenon,     communicated by a Correspon
dent."    In these experiments, which were chiefly made
with a shilling, I could not reconcile the idea of a fusion
taking place, the force employed being so very small : there
is,however, no doubt but this        fusion both on the part
                                                    is
                                                    a
of    the piece and the coating               of   the phial.
  Being induced to make these experiments with     greater                            a
degree of accuracy and observation, began  with  piece of                            a
                                                                                                  "
                                                            I
money, as stated in my former paper       there said,        :    it       is                     I
sometimes             small hole in the coating where the
                   observed      a
piece was taken from :"    find that this made at every dis
                                                                   is is
                                     I
charge of  the jar, whether  the shilling interposed or not.
On examining this hole (which                           is   just perceptible                 to the
naked eye) with  microscope, a                     I     observed               the coating cu
riously melted, very minute globules of the melted metal
being scattered around    in every direction.
                                     it       Sometimes,
when the jar            is   charged very highly, and the piece inter
posed,        several   of    these holes are made, in each of which
there   the same appearance.
         is                      small white spot, encom
                                                   A
passed with    browna ring,  likewise observed on the shil
                                             is
ling, which bears evident marks of fusion, though in less                                     a
degree than the          tinfoil of     the   jar.
     On passing         twelve successive              discharges               through   a    shil
ling,   the surface became quite brown for about half an inch
in length and two lines in breadth.                                This colour was not
permanent, but easily rubbed                   off with          the finger. The white
spots, however, made at every discharge remained, and seemed
to be indented on the surface.         somewhat remarkable,
                                                       It   is
that    all these experiments the effect on that side of the
        in
piece which was next the coating of the jar was scarcely
                                                                                                  vi
sible, though the tinfoil was melted as before. This favours
rather,   I     think,           single electric fluid. In cop
                             the idea   of    a
per, this effect seems to partake more of calcination or ox        a
idation   as the part where the discharge was made through
          ;
was always white, though still encompassed with the browu
ring.
   From        a    number of trials           it      appears        that this effect            is
scarcely,      if   at all, visible on thin plates                 of iron.          Though       I
               4

                                                               -
                        On the Reproduction       of Buds.                  IS
have     subjected       them     to a greater    force of electricity, yet
I could never discover on them any                marks    of fusion, or that
the metal was stained brown, as in the other experiments.
     It is very surprising that so small a quantity of accumu
lated     electricity should operate so powerfully on a plate of
metal, when it requires a very large battery to melt a small
wire! Many electricians have turned their thoughts to the
melting of wires, &c. by the electric battery, amongst whom
J   would notice Mr. A. Brooks, late of Norwich, who seems
to have treated this subject \yith great perspicuity and exact
 ness ; but very few           of them thought of making the discharge
 through plates           of   metal; which seems to open a wide field
 for observation and experiment.
     The insertion of the above in your publication will greatly
                      -
 oblige, sir,
                             Your obedient humble servant,
                                                                          C. R.
 XV.      On tlie Reproduction         of Buds.      By THOMAS ANDREW
      KNIGHT, £s'7.            F.R.S. In a Letter          to the Right Hem,
      StV JOSEPH         BANKS, K.B. P.R.S.*
     ^
          MY DEAR SIR,
 JtLvERY tree in           the ordinary course      of  its growth generates,
  in each season,           those buds which      expand     in the succeeding
  spring ; and the buds thus generated                 contain, in many in
  stances, the whole of the leaves which appear in the follow
  ing summer. But if these buds be destroyed during the
  winter or early part of the spring, other buds, in many spe
  cies  of    trees,    are generated,    which in every respect perform
   the office    of  those    which previously existed, except that they
   never afford fruit or blossoms.             This reproduction of buds
   has not escaped the notice of naturalists; but it does not ap
   pear to have been ascertained           by them from which, amongst
   the various substances of the tree, the buds derive their origin.
       Du Hamel conceived that reproduced buds sprang from
    pre-organized germs : but the existence of such germs has
                 • From the Trantactioni         Royal Sustcli; for 1SOJ.
            .                             of the
                                                                            not.

 76                    On the Reproduction    of Buds.
 not, in any instance, been proved ; and it is well known that
 the roots, and trunk, and branches, of many species of trees
will, under proper management, afford buds from every part
of their surfaces ; and therefore, if this hypothesis be well
founded, many millions of such germs must be annually
generated       in every large tree, not one of which, in the or
dinary course of nature, will come into action : and as na
ture, amidst all its exuberance, does not abound in useless
productions, the opinions of this illustrious physiologist are,
in this   case, probably erroneous.
    Other naturalists have supposed the buds, when repro
duced, to spring from the plexus of vessels which consti
tutes the internal bark ; and this opinion is, I believe, much
entertained       by modern botanists : it nevertheless appears to
be unfounded, as the facts I shall proceed to state will
evince.
    If the   fruit-stalks  of the  sea cale (crambe maritima) be cut
off near the ground in the spring, the medullary substance,
within that part of the stalk which remains attached to the
root, decays ; and a cup is thus formed, in which water col
lects in the succeeding winter.           The sides of this cup con
sist of a woody substance,            which  in its texture and office,
and mode        of generation,    agrees perfectly with the alburnum
of  trees  ;   and  I conceive it   to be as perfect alburnum    as  the
white wood of the oak or elm           : and from the interior part   of
this substance, within          the cup,   I have frequently observed
new buds to be generated in the ensuing spring.               It is suf
ficiently obvious       that  the  buds   in this case do not spring
from the bark        ; but it is not equally evident that they might
not have sprung from some remains of the medulla.
    In the autumn of 1802 I discovered that the potatoe pos
sessed a similar power        of reproducing   its buds.   Some plants
of this      species   had been    set, rather late in the preceding
spring, in very dry ground, where, through want of mois
ture, they vegetated very feebly ; and the portions of the old
roots remained sound and entire till the succeeding autumn.
Being then moistened by rain, many small tubers were ge-                 -
nerated on the surfaces made by the knife in dividing the
roots into cuttings ; and the buds of these, in many instances,
                                                             elongated

                           On the Reproduction       of Buds.                            ^^
elongated         into runners which gave existence to other Jtubers,
some     of which I         had the pleasure to send to you.
   I    have in a former paper remarked,                  that      the potatoe con
sists    of four distinct substances,               the   epidermis, the true
skin,  the bark, and its internal                  substance, which from its
mode of formation and subsequent office I have supposed
to be alburnous : there is also in the young tubes a transpa
rent line through the centre, which is probably its medulla.
The buds and runners sprang from the substance   which I
conceive to be the alburnum of the root, and neither from
the central part            of   it,   nor from the surface in contact with
the bark.          It  must, however, be admitted, that the internal
substance          of the potatoe corresponds more nearly with our
ideas     of   a    medullary than of an alburnous substance, and
therefore this, with the preceding facts,  adduced to prove    is
only  that the reproduced buds of these plants are not gene
rated     the cortical substance of the root
             by                                 and     shall            :          I
proceed           to     experiments on the apple, and
                       relate    some
pear, and plum tree, which     conceive to prove that the
                                               I
reproduced buds of those  plants do not spring from the
medulla.
    Having raised from                 seeds   very considerable number of
                                               a
 plants of each of these               species in 1802,   partly disengaged
                                                              I
 them from the soil in                 the autumn,      digging round each
                                                          by
 plant, which was then raised about two inches above its
 former level   A part of the mould was then removed, and
                       .
 the plants were cut off about an inch below the points where
 the seed-leaves formerly grew    and   portion of the root,
                                               ;          a
 about an inch long, without any bud upon          remained                  it,
 exposed to the air and light. In  the beginning of  April                                 I
 observed many small elevated points on the bark of these
 roots, and, removing the whole of the cortical substance,                                 I
 found that the elevations were occasioned                          by   small protube
 rances on the surface of the alburnum.  As the spring ad
 vanced, many minute red points appeared to perforate the
 bark   these soon assumed the character of buds, and pro
         :
 duced shoots in every respect similar to those                              which would
 have sprung from the organized buds                       of    the preceding year.
 Whether           the buds thus reproduced               derived        any       portion of
                                                                                         their

   78                  On the Reproduction       of Suds.
  their component parts from the bark or not, I shall not vert-*
  ture to decide    ; but I am much disposed to believe that, like
  those   of  the potatoe, they sprang from the alburnous sub
  stance solely.
     The space, however, in the annual root, between the
  medulla and the bark is very small ; and therefore it may
  be contended       that the buds in these instances may have
 originated from the medulla.             I therefore thought it neces
 sary to repeat similar experiments on the roots and trunks
 of old trees, and by these the buds were reproduced precisely
 in   the   same manner as         the annual      roots  :   and   therefore,
 conceiving     myself to have         proved    in  a   former memoir*
 that the substance which has been called the medullary pro
 cess does not originate from the medulla, I must conclude
 that reproduced       buds do not spring from that substance.
    I  have remarked      in  a paper   which you did me the honour
 to lay before the Royal Society in the commencement of the
 present year, that the alburnous tubes at their termination
 upwards invariably join the central vessels, and that these
 vessels,   which appear to.derive their origin from the albur
 nous tubes, convey nutriment, and probably give existence
to ne\v buds and leaves.          It is also evident, from the facility
with which       the rising sap is transferred from one side of a              .
 wounded tree to the other, that the alburnous tubes possess
lateral, as well as terminal, orifices; and it does not appear
improbable, that the lateral as well as the terminal orifices of
the alburnous tubes may possess the power to generate cen
tral vessels ; which        vessels  evidently feed,        if  they  do not
give    existence    to, the reproduced buds and leaves.                 And
therefore,    as the   preceding experiments appear            to  prove that
the buds neither spring from the medulla nor the bark, I am
much inclined        to believe that they are generated            by central
vessels which      spring from the lateral         orifices of the albur
nous tubes.       The practicability of propagating              some plants
from their leaves may seem to stand in opposition to thia
hypothesis ; but the central vessel is always a component
part of the leaf, and from it the bud and young plant pro
bably originate.
                           * Pha Trans, of   1803.
                                                                  I expected-

                    On the Reproduction       of Buds.                   79
   I  expected    to discover in seeds a similar power to regene
rate their buds ; for the cotyledons          of  these,   though dissi
milar    in organization, execute the office           of the alburnum,
and contain a similar reservoir of nutriment,                and at once
supply the place of the alburnum and the leaf.                But no ex
periments which I have yet been able to make, have been
decisive, owing to the difficulty of ascertaining the number
of buds previously existing within the seed. Few if any
seeds,    I  have reason to believe, contain less than three buds,
one only      of which,    except  in  cases of accident, germinates;
and some seeds appear to contain             a  much greater      number.
The    seed   of the peach     appears to    be provided with        ten or
 twelve leaves,     each   of which probably covers the rudiment
of a bud,      and the seeds, like the buds      of the horse-chestnut,
contain all the     leaves and apparently all the buds of the suc
 ceeding year : and I have never been able to satisfy myself
that all the buds were eradicated without having destroyed
 the base of the plumule, in which the power of reproducing
 buds probably resides,       if such   power exists.
    Nature     appears   to   have   denied    to annual and biennial
 plants (at least to those which have been the subjects of my
 experiments) the power which it has given to perennial,
 plants to reproduce their buds ; but nevertheless some bien
 nials possess, under peculiar circumstances, a very singular
 resource, when all their buds have been destroyed.                  A tur
 nip,   bred   between     the English and       Swedish variety, from
 which    I  had cut   off  the greater part     of its fruit-stalks, and
 of which all     the buds had been destroyed, remained               some
 weeks in an apparently dormant state ; after which                the first
 seed  in   each  pod germinated,       and bursting     the seed-vessel,
 seemed to execute the office       of  a bud and leaves to the parent
 plant, during the short remaining term of its existence,
 when its preternatural foliage perished with it.                Whether
 this property be possessed by other biennial plants in com
 mon with the turnip or not, I am not at present in posses
 sion of facts to decide, not having made precisely the same
 experiment on any other plant.
    I will take this opportunity to correct an inference that I
                                                                       have

 80                         On the Reproduction               of Buds.
 have drawn in     former paper*, which the facts (though
                        a
 quite correctly stated) do not, on subsequent repetition of
 the experiment, appear to justify.  I have stated, that when
 a perpendicular shoot of the vine was inverted to a depend
 ing position,         and a portion          of           two circular.
                                                   its bark between
 incisions round the stem                removed, much more new wood
 was generated on the lower lip of the wound, become upper
 most by the inverted position of the branch, than on the
 opposite lip, which would not have happened had the branch
continued to grow erect; and I have inferred that this effect
was produced by sap which had descended by gravitation
from the leaves above.  But the branch was, as I have there
stated,employed as a layer, and the matter which would
have accumulated on the opposite                        lip
                                    of the wound had been
employed in the formation of roots,    circumstance which     a
at that time escaped my attention.                      The effects of gravitation
on    the motion       of   the descending sap, and consequent growth
of plants,      are,I       am well
                          satisfied, from     great variety of    a
experiments, very great; but     will be very difficult to dis
                                              it
cover any method      which the extent of its operation can
                              by
be accurately ascertained,                  For      the      vessels   which convey
and impel f      the true sap,          or fluid from which the new wood
appears to be generated,            pass immediately from the leaf-stalk
towards the root        ;    and though the motion                 of this fluid may
be impeded        by    gravitation,        and    it   be even      again returned
into the leaf, no portion of unless     it,             it    had been cxtravasated,
could have descended to the part from which                              the bark was
taken off in the experiment have described.
                                        I                             I   am not sen
sible that in the different papers which                I      have had the honour
to address  to you>     have drawn- any other inference which
                            I
the facts, on  repetition of the experiments, do not appear
capable   of supporting.
                                   I    am, &c.
    Hton»   „                                  THOMAS ANDREW KNIGHT.
 May 12, i805.
          •   Phil. Trsuu. of   1803.              f   ?*&- Trans, of     1804.
                                                                          XVI. Pro-

                              [    81   ]
           XVI.   Proceedings      of Learned    Socle tief.
                 ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
Jr EB. 6.   The Right Honourable Sir Joseph Banks, Bart.
President,  in the chair.     The reading .of Mr. Hatdiett-s in
teresting paper on artificial tannin was resumed.            Effects nf
sulphuric  acid  on  vegetables     in converting    them    into coat.
Resins distilled yield but from -03 to -05 grains coal ; but
when treated with this acid from -30 to -60 ; with muriatic
acid somewhat less.      Gums, whether by distillation or           di
gestion with acid,    yielded    nearly equal     quantities of car
bon.    The author,    from     his numerous and very decisive
experiments, proceeded with great caution to offer a theory
of the formation of pit-coal ; and his own discoveries have
enabled  him to adduce     facts    that seem to leave us without
hope of ever attaining much more complete knowledge of
the origin and formation of pit-coal than what he has mo
destly proposed. That all carbonaceous matter is of vege
table origin, has been generally allowed ; and Mr. Hatchett
thinks that the means employed by nature for converting
vegetables into carbon has been by slow digestion of great
masses exposed to the action of sulphuric acid.            To this end
he admits that muriatic acid may alio have contributed ; but
from the much greater universality of sulphuric acid, sulphate
of iron (pyrites), &c. in coals, and his synthetical experi
ments, which often gave 60 per cent, of carbon from vege
table matter by means    of this acid,     he thence concludes that
sulphuric acid must have been the more efficient if not the
sole agent. Carbon thus formed is found in many parts
without bitumen,    such   as  in Kilkenny and Bovey coals, 8cc.
The bitumen is also formed of the resinous parts of vegetables
subjected to the slow action of sulphuric acid.
   Feb. 13.    Mr. Hatchett admits that his efforts to form
bitumen have not been completely successful, although there
can be no doubt of its constituent principles.           All synthetic
experiments, he observes, are necessarily conducted too
rapidly,  and on too small quantities, ever to imitate effectu
ally the process of nature. To the submarine composts or
   Vol. 24. No. 93. Fcl. 1806.            F                   vegetable

  82                   Royal   Society    of London.
 vegetable solutions    of certain philosophers he seems decidedly
  averse, and appears also willing to deny the agency of mu
  riatic acid in the formation of coal.          For this, however, he
  has not assigned    any reason, although the almost invariable
  contiguity of lime to coal would         tend to prove, that had any
  quantity of muriatic acid been           present at the formation of
 either,    a new and very different substance must have been
 produced.       The few saline springs found in the vicinity of
 coal-mines, he considers       as  no exception to the general prin
 ciple of the inefficiency of muriatic acid; and the discoveries
 of Mr. Peel may perhaps render the opinion of our author
 still more probable. Mr. Hatchett allows that animal matter
 may have contributed to the formation of pit-coal ; but de
 nies that any fire could have been accessory.                 The great
 frequency, indeed, of numerous animal substances found in
 the limestone that is contiguous to coal-strata, renders it
 difficult to deny that animal matter could not have been pre
 sent at the original     formation     of coal. Mr. Hatchett con
 cludes this very     able paper     with declaring the necessity of
 adhering invariably to that rigid systematic order which we
 hinted at in a former report, and without which, he observes,
 that science can neither be extended nor applied to the pur
 poses   of civil society. He also recommends such researches
 to the attention of other chemists, as he has determined to
 decline them for the present, and hopes that his discoveries
and numerous experiments may be usefully applied to the
arls, and the important (Economy of fuel, &c.                The thanks
of the Society were ordered to this philosopher, and we
doubt not that he will also receive those of the civilized
world.
     On   the same   evening    a   letter from Mr. Griffiths to the
President was read, containing a brief account of a species
of worm-shell found by him in a bank of clay on the coast
of Sumatra, after      the sihock of an earthquake.            Consider
able    numbers   of the   same   species   are found  in. the surround
ing seas, iu water from one to six fathoms deep, and vary in
length from three to five feet, and in diameter from three to
nine inches.       One   of  the specimens procured by         Mr. Grif-
       s measures   above f: :e feet,,   is taper, has two tcntaculi^
                                                                     and

          British Institution.  — Society of Antiquaries.         83
and in other respects is somewhat different from the flguro
given by fthumphius. Not one of those shells could he pro
cured perfect in itself, but their figure may be correctly
conceived from the different broken specimens. The body
of the fish consisted of a gelatinous mass.          The outside of
the shell was white, the inside yellow, and its fracture
strongly resembled stalactite.
    Feb. 20. The introduction         to a mathematical    paper  on
"   Impossible Quantities"      was read, but it is impossible that
we can report it.
    A   physiological paper, on a particular affection of the pro
state gland,    was also announced, the reading of which was
 deferred till next meeting.
BRITISH INSTITUTION           FOR    PROMOTING     THE FINE ARTS.
    The gallery belonging        to this laudabk    institution  was
 opened on the 1 7th of the present month (February) for the
exhibition and sale of the productions of the British artists ;
 and will continue open every day from 10 in the morning till
 5 in the afternoon.       It is but justice to say, that the dis
 play of tastc; talent, and genius, which .even the first open
 ing has exhibited, arc highly creditable to the British school.
Many of     the pictures possess the highest excellence, and all
 of   them do honour to the        individuals  who have produced
 them.
                    SOCIETY     OP   ANTIQUAKIKS.
     Feb. 6.  Mr.Orde in     the chair.    Several curious historical
 notices were read on the character and oflice of the antient
 minstrels,   or, as they were sometimes called, eytharists, in
 this country ; from which it appeared that several females
 had assumed the character of wandering minstrels                 and
  dancers. Their loose manner of life soon rendered them ob
 noxious to the laws, and they were at length suppressed as
  common rogues and vagrants; but their music and dancing,
  we are happy to find, at no period, had any relation to the
 general licentiousness of persons of the like profession in
  every country on the continent,
     Feb. 13. The right honourable president, Earl of Leicester
  in the chair.     Mr. Lysons furnished some extracts from
                                    F  2                          tic

   84                    RoyalJennerian Society.
   the antient records of falconry, in the reign of Edward VJ.
  The word mews, now improperly but generally applied to a
  pile of stables, was originally applied to a long range of build
  ings appropriated to the mewing and breeding of falcons.
      An old painting, dated 1560, with the poetic inscription —
  " Rather deathe —Then false of faythe," was exhibited by
  a baronet, under the impression of its being a portrait of
  lady Jane Grey ; but which might be more probably her mo
  ther, as supposed by the secretary,         the Rev. Mr. Brand.
 This circumstance should teach amateurs           not to be so cre
  dulous in purchasing old paintings.
                     ROYAL JENNER1AN        SOCIETY.
      At a special  meeting of the board of directors, lately held
 at the central house     of the society, No. 14, Salisbury-square,
 Fleet-street,    the following report of the medical council, on
 the subject      of vaccine inoculation,      was   laid before the
 board.
                                 REPORT.
     The medical council of         the  Royal Jennerian    Society,
 having been informed that various cases had occurred, which
 excited prejudices against vaccine inoculation, and tended
 to check the      progress   of that important discovery in this
 kingdom, appointed         a committee     of twenty-five of their
 members to inquire, not only into the nature and truth of
 such cases, but also into the evidence respecting instances
 of small-pox, alleged to have occurred twice in the same
 person.
     In consequence of this reference,        the committee made
diligent inquiry into the history of a number of cases, in
which it     was supposed that vaccination had failed to prevent
the    small-pox,    and also  of such  cases of small-pox as were
stated    to  have    happened    subsequently to the natural or
inoculated small-pox.
    In the course of their examination the committee learned,
that opinions and assertions had been advanced and cir
culated, which charged the cow-pox with rendering patients
liable to particular diseases, frightful in their appearance,
and hitherto     unknown      ; and judging such opinions     to be
                                                          connected

                            Royal Jennerian Society.                        85
 connected with the question as to the efficacy of the practice,
 they thought it incumbent upon them to examine also into
 the validity of these injurious statements respecting vac
 cination.
    After                  investigation of these subjects, the
                a very minute
 result of their inquiries has been submitted to the medical
 council ; and from the report of the committee it appears :
    I. That most of the cases, which have been brought for
 ward     as   instances of the failure      of vaccination    to prevent the
 small-pox, and which have been the subjects of public atten
 tion and conversation, are cither wholly unfounded or grossly
 misrepresented.
    II.    That    some     of   the cases are now allowed,       by the very
 persons who           first related   them, to have been        erroneously
 stated.
    III.       That   the   statements   of such of    those     cases as   are
 published,        have,  for the most part, been carefully investi
 gated,        ably discussed, and fully refuted, by different writers
 on the subject.
    IV. That          notwithstanding     the most incontestable proofs
 of such misrepresentations,             a few medical men have per
 sisted    in   repeatedly bringing the same unfounded and refuted
 reports and misrepresentations before the public ; thus per
 versely and disingenuously labouring to excite prejudices
 against vaccination.
   V. That in some printed accounts adverse                   to vaccination,
 in which the writers had no authenticated                    facts to support
 the opinions they advanced, nor any reasonable arguments
 to maintain them, the subject has been treated with indecent
 and disgusting levity ; as if the good or evil of society were
 fit objects for sarcasm and ridicule.
    VI. That when the practice of vaccination was first in
 troduced and recommended by Dr. Jenner, many persons,
 who had never seen the effects of the vaccine fluid on the
 human system, who were almost wholly unacquainted with
 the history of vaccination, the characteristic marks of the
 genuine vesicle, and the cautions necessary to be observed in
-'the management of              it,
                          and were therefore incompetent to
                                         F 3                           decide

 66                     Royal Jennerian Society.
 decide   whether patients        were properly vaccinated or not,
 nevertheless     ventured   to inoculate for the   cow-pox.
    VII. That many persons          have been declared     duly vacci
 nated, when the operation          was   performed in a very negli
 gent and unskilful manner,          and when the inoculator did not
 afterwards see i ; i» patients,    and therefore could not ascertain
 whether infection had taken place or not; and that to this
 cause are certainly       to be attributed many of the cases ad
 duced in    proof of the incfficacy of cow-pox.
    VIII.     That some cases have been brought              before   the
 committee,       on which they could form no decisive opinion,
 from the want of necessary information as to the regularity
 of the preceding vaccination, or the reality of the subsequent
 appearance      of the small-pox.
    IX.   That it is admitted by         the  committee,     that  a  few
 cases have been      brought before them, of persons having          the
 small.pox, who had apparently passed through the cow-pox
 hi a regular way.
    X. That cases, supported by evidence equally strong,
 have been also brought before them, of persons who, after
having once regularly passed through the small -pox, either
by inoculation or natural infection, have had that disease a
second time.
    XI.  That in many          cases in which the small-pox has
occurred    a   second time, after inoculation or the natural dis
ease,   such recurrence has been particularly severe, and often
fatal ;  whereas, when it has appeared to occur after vacci
nation,    the disease has generally been         so mild,    as to  lose
some of      its   characteristic   marks, and even sometimes to
render its existence doubtful.
    XII.   That it    is a fact well ascertained,  that, in some par
ticular states      of certain constitutions,     whether vaccine or
variolons      matter be employed,         a local disease    only will
be excited     by inoculation, the constitution remaining un-
afl-tcted; yet that matter taken from such local vaccine or
variolous pustule is capable of producing          a general    and per
fect disease. .
    XIII.   That     if  a person, bearing the strongest and most
                                                            indubitable

                       Royal Jennertan    Socic-ti/i,              87
 indubitable marks of having had the small-pox, be repeatedly
 inoculated for that disease, a pustule may be produced, the
 matter of which will communicate the disease to those who
 have not been previously infected.
   XIV.     That although it     is difficult to determine precisely
 the number    of exceptions    to the practice, the medical coun
 cil are fully convinced that the failure of vaccination, as a
preventive of the small-pox, is a very rare occurrence.
 . XV. That of the immense number who have been vacci
nated in the army and navy, in different parts of the united
kingdom, and in every quarter of the globe, scarcely any
instances    of such failure   have been reported to the committee
but those which arc said to have occurred in the metropolis
or its vicinity.
   XVI.    That the medical council are fully assured, that in
very    many places in which the small-pox raged with great
violence, the disease has been speedily and effectually arrested
in its progress, and in some populous cities wholly exter
minated, by the practice of vaccination.                   ^
  XVII. That the practice of inoculation for the small-pox,
on its first introduction into this country, was opposed and
very much retarded, in consequence of misrepresentations
and arguments drawn from assumed facts, and of miscar
riages arising from the want of correct information,  similar
to those now brought forward against vaccination, so that
nearly fifty years elapsed before small-pox inoculation was
fully established.
  XVIII. That by a reference to the bills of mortality, it
will appear that, to the unfortunate neglect of vaccination,
and to the prejudices raised against        it,
                                        we may           in
                                                      grout   a
measure attribute the loss of nearly two thousand lives            by
the small-pox,      in this metropolis alone, within the present
year.
  XIX.     That the fc-\v instances of failure, either    the in
inoculati-in of the cow-pox, or of the small-pox, ought not
to be Considered as objections to either practice, but merely
asdeyiations from the ordinary course of nature.
   XX. That    if acomparison be made between the prerervii-
tive effects of vaccination, and those of inoculation for the
                                 F4                           small-

88                  Royal Jennerian Society.
small-pox, it would be necessary to take into account the
greater number of persons who have been vaccinated within
a given time : as it is probable that, within the last seven
years,   nearly  as many persons have been inoculated for the
cow-pox as were ever inoculated for the small-pox since the
practice was introduced into this kingdom.
    XXI.   That from all the facts which they have been able
to collect, it appears to the medical council, that the cow-
pox is generally mild and harmless in its effects ; and that
the   few cases which have been alleged against this opinion
may be fairly attributed to peculiarities of constitution.
    XXII.    That many well-known cutaneous            diseases,   and
some scrophulous complaints,          have been represented     as the
effects of vaccine inoculation,       when in fact they originated
from other causes,       and in many instances occurred long
after vaccination   ;  and   that   such diseases are infinitely less
frequent after vaccination,        than after either the natural or
inoculated small -pox.
    Having   stated these facts, and     made   these  observations,
the medical council        cannot conclude their report upon a
 subject so highly important and interesting to all classes of
 the community, without making this solemn declaration :
   That, in their opinion,        founded on their own individual
experience, and the information which they have been able
to collect from that of others, mankind have already derived
great and incalculable benefit from the discovery of vacci
nation   ; and that  it is their full belief, that the sanguine ex
pectations of advantage and security which have been formed
from the inoculation of the cow-pox, will be ultimately and
Completely fulfilled.
                               (Signed)
   Ed.Jenner,M.D. president.              W. Blair.
   J. C.  Lettsom, M. D. V. P.            Gil. Blane, M. D.
   John Ring, V. P.                       Isaac Buxton, M. D.
   Joseph Adams, M. D.                    Wm. Chamberlaine.
   John Addington.                       John Clarke, M. D.
   C. R. Aikin.                           Astley Cooper.
   Wm. Babingion, M. D.                   Wm. Daniell Cordell.
   M. Baillie, M. D.                      Richard Croft, M. D.
                                                                 Tho.

            Academy
                 of Useful               Sciences at   Erfurt.             89
    Tho. Denman, M. D.                      William Lewis.
    John Dimsdale.                          William Lister, M.D.
    Henry Field.                            Alex. Marcet, M.D.
    Edward Ford.                            Joseph Hart Myers, M, D.
    Joseph Fox.                             James Parkinson.
    Will. M.         Eraser,      M.D.      Thomas Paytherus.
    William Gaitskell.                      John Pearson.
    Wm. Hamilton, M. D.                     George Rees, M. D.
    John Hingeston.                         John Gibbs Ridout.
    Everard Home.                           J.  Squire, M. D.
    Robert Hooper,             M. D.         James Upton.
    Joseph Hurlock.                         J.   Christian Wachsell.
    John Jones.                             Thomas Walshman,            M. D.
    Thomas Key.                             Robert Willan, M.D.
    Francis Knight.                         Allen Williams.
    E.     Leese.                           James Wilson.
    L.     Leese.                           J.   Yelloly,   M.D.
                                                         John Walker,
 January    2,   1806.
                                                 Secretary to the council.
      ACADEMY OP USEFUL SCIENCES AT ERFURT.
          \
  Professor Bernardi is returned to Erfurt from his five
months tour through the Carinthian Alps.     Notwithstand
ing the difficulties he had to encounter from  unfavourable
weather and the operations of the war, he has no reasons to
be dissatisfied with the result of his journey. He has made
a number         of new discoveries which       he is about to publish.
In an      essay    read      before the academy, on the sd of De
cember, he says           :
                              "  It surely cannot be supposed that our
country has been yet sufficiently examined. In the southern
part of   in particular, there are many hidden treasures of
           it,
science;     and    it   is
                  incontestably    great error in our country
                                            a
men to travel into foreign countries, forgetting the treasures
of which Germany              has to boast."     The first proof which the
professor exhibited of this fact was                by
                                          the communication
of two kinds of the herb Speedwell or Fluellin, not yet
hitherto- sufficiently well described, and which nearly re
semble the Veronica spicuta.                The    one   he   calls   Feronica
                                                                      cristata,

90       Academy              rtf   Useful Sciences at           Erfurt.— Goitlngen,
cristata, and the other Veronica
                             stembergiana. The "first,
which he found in Hungary near the German frontiers,
and on the mountains of Dornach not far from Vienna,
differs very little from the Veromca splcata in the form of
the stalk and leaves, but much more in the blossoms and
the stalk  of the flower.       carries its blossoms in
                                           It             proper                a
car.     The folds of the flowers,  which  resemble   short pipe,           a
are not so broad              ;   they are rolled together to the very middle,
and do not present                a genuine pipe; so that the flower assumes
a   funnel-like          appearance,            and approaches        very nearly   in its
stalk    to    that of the
                      Veronica sibirica and virginica.    In
respect    other
              to particulars   does   not differ very
                                                   it much
from the Veronica spicata, which      already accurately de
                                                         it is
scribed. In the botanical system     has the following cha
racteristic — Ver. spica terminali, corollae subrolatce, laciniis
postice convolutis, falcis oppositis. —The second specimen
Count Sternberg already remarked in Italy in the Sette commu-
ni, and gave   the name of Ver.glalra. But as Ehrhardt had
                        it
made use of this name to another kind of Verqnica, Bernard!
thought proper to name                     it   after its discoverer.
                                                    principally          It
grows at Krain, near Jauernberg, on the hills which surround
the foot of Belsbiza.  Its stalks and leaves are almost entirely
hairless the first
           ;          very lank, and its longer-stalked blos
                                  is
soms     stand          somewhat           crowded       together;  may be re
                                                                       it
cognized           by   the   following         difference —V. racemo terminali,
corollie rotatae, laciniis patentibus, foliis oppositis, caulequ^
glabris. — Professor Bernardi has more clearly described the
doubtfulSpeedwells or Fluellins — V. urticeefolia, latifolia,
Teucrium, prostrata et pilosa, and has assigned to them pro
per descriptions.                   This   essay    of Professor Bernardi will ap
pear in the acts of the academy,                            new volume of which
                                                             a
will    be immediately published.
                   ACADEMY             OF SCIENCES, OOTTINGEN.
    Thisacademy has added the names of Chaptal and Cuvier,
both members    of the National Institute of France, to the list
of their foreign associates.
                                                                            XVII. Intel

                                      I     91      ]
           XVII.      Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
PRODUCTION            OF MURIATES            BY         THE GALVANIC        DECOM
                          POSITION          OF WATER.
                                 To   Mr.        Tiltock.
         SIR,                                               Leicester, Feb. IS, I80C.
1 HAVE                 to inform you I have tried Mr. Peel-s
                the pleasure
experiments relative to the formation of muriat of soda and
imiriat of potash, which were in your Magazine in April
and      July last,   and find them to be perfectly correct.
                                                  Yours truly, &c. 8cc.
                                                           A. B. HORTENTZ.
                               BEET-ROOT           SUGAR.
     A manufactory for this sugar                       has been   established     by a
company of merchants in the neighbourhood of Moscow ;
and the success of the establishment has proved, that from
this vegetable a sugar is obtained which not only finds a
ready market, but which, the consumers say, yields in no
quality whatever to the sugar generally in use.
     Aspecimen has been presented to his majesty the empe
ror of Russia, who was pleased to express his high satis
faction with it.
                               CURE FOR DROPSY.
     We     have already had occasion to announce, that different
people who        had been afflicted with dropsy, had been per
fectly      cured by means of Bohea tea.      In the Grecnock
Advertiser we find the following instance of the efficacy                               of
this remedy :
     A correspondent in Islay requests us to state, for the
information of the public, that Donald Cameron, a herd
upon the farm of Machry, in that island, was severely
afflicted with a dropsy, which kept him bed-fast from July
to November last ; but was finally cured by using a quarter
of a pound of Bohea, drinking a strong infusion of     and                       it,
eating the leaves.  In three days the immense quantity of
water that was in his body disappeared, the tea having acted
as   a   powerful     diuretic   ;    and    he     is    now stout and       hearty,
                7                                                               retfa

   02     Cure for Deafness. — Fossil Skeleton. — Dance       of Death.
  after being despaired of and given over by all of the faculty
   that saw him.
                        CUBE FOR DEAFNESS.
                                            Petersburgh,  22d  January.
      Demctri Simeonovitsch Sitnikoff,     a merchant in Moscow,
  was for half a year deprived of the faculty of hearing, and
  all the remedies usually prescribed for that disease were used
  without effect.     At last he had recourse to the following
  simple operation : After having filled Ms mouth with the
  smoke of tobacco, he closed it firmly, and also his nose,
  thereby forcing the smoke to find its way through the ears.
  The following morning he felt a crash, first in one ear, and
  then in the other, and from that moment his hearing has
  been completely restored. — Hamburgh Correspondenten,              Fe
  bruary 8.
                          FOSSIL SKELETON.
      At Sir Joseph Banks's conversationi on the     2d  of February,
 ——       Hawker, esq. of Dudbridge, Gloucestershire, exhi
 bited complete drawings, and several of the bones of a large
 fossile animal similar to a crocodile, found in a solid stratum
 of limestone 20 feet thick.       It was imbedded 15 feet below
 the surface of the stratum. The skeleton measures 10£ feet
 in length, and all the parts ate wonderfully perfect. The
jaws which were exhibited contained the teeth in high pre
 servation, and still covered with the enamel. One. of them
which was broken had so exactly the fracture of what is
 called petrified wood, that it would have deceived the most
acute mineralogist, and furnishes a strong ground for suspi
 cion that many fossils generally held to be of vegetable are
of animal origin. In      the same stratum  of limestone     are found
many cornua ammonioe,          mussels, and other shells.
                   holbein's dance of death.
     It is well known that Basil in Switzerland       was celebrated
for Holbein's celebrated        picture of the Dance of Death,
which     had   undergone several repairs from time to time, and
had been recently retouched, to the great satisfaction of all
the connoisseurs.       In the evening of the Cth of August last,
however,      a  mob collected in Basil, and, accompanied by a
                                                                  great

     Falling Bodies. — Russian Literature and Embassies.                  93
 great number «f women carrying lanthoms, broke in upon
 the gallery in the churoh-yard, which contained this master
 piece of antiquity, tore it from the walls, and in a few mit
nutes succeeded in completely destroying it             !
                             FALLING BODIES.
    Mr. Benzenberg, professor of physic and astronomy at
Dusseldorf, has published an account of twenty-eight ex
 periments made in the coal mines of Schebusch with balls
well turned and polished.              They were made to fall from a
 height of 262 French feet.            At a medium they produced a
 deviation      of  five lines towards the east : the theory gives
4-6 lines.        These experiments furnish an additional proof.
if  any were wanted, of the rotary motion of the earth. Ex
 periments made at Bologna by             Mr. Guglielmini     gave nearly
the same results.
               PROGRESS       OF LITERATURE IN RUSSIA.
    In   the year 1804,        fifteen  new journals    were printed      in
Russia,       and  1 15  new books were published the same year at
St.   Petersburg and       Moscow : among the latter were transla
tions into the Russian language of the following works —
Sterne-s Tristram Shandy ; Rousseau-s Confessions, and his
Eloisa    ;   Hufeland-s     Art of prolonging Human Life ; Bar-i
thelemy-s Travels         of Anacharsis ; besides a variety of original
works in the Russian language.
             RUSSIAN EMBASSIES TO PEKIN AND JAPAN.
                                                      Petersburgh,  Ian. 13.
    Several      persons who were appointed to travel with the
embassy       to  Pekiu have returned from Irkuzk, and have al
ready    arrived here.        The counsellor     of  state,  Fosse, who
accompanied the chamberlain Rcsanow on the embassy to
Japan, has also arrived here from Kamtschatka.                      After a
stay   of   seven   months,     the embassy   left Japan and returned
to Katntschatka         in the Naveschda, a vessel commanded by
captain Kruscnstiern.            Chamberlain Resanow set out from
thence to Kodiak, and the other possessions of the Russian
American company, according to his instructions, after hav
ing dispatched counsellor Fosse here by Ihe way of Ochozk.
 Captain Krusensteirn sailed with the rest of the embassy for
                                                                   Canton,

 94              List   <if   Patents    for New    Inventions.
Canton,      their original destination,          whence,          it  expected,
                                                                        is
they will return next August.               As far       as   we learn, no acci
dent had befallen the embassy, all the members of which
were in good health.  The Naveschda left Kamtschatka ia
the middle      of June.
           LIST    OF PATENTS FOR NEW               INVENTIONS.
     To William      Sampson,           of Liverpool,   the county of
                                                              in
tanoaster,      wheelwright      ;   for certain improvements in the
application     of power employed mechanically, especially as
adapted    to   the use of cranks, and             fly
                                       wheels or other con
trivances producing equivalent or similar effect.                        Dated Fe
bruary 12, 1806.
  To John Phillips, of East Stonchouse, in the county of
Devon, stonemason and sculptor for improvements in the
                                             ;
construction of tinder-boxes. Dated February 12.
  To John Phillips, of East Stonehouse, in the county of
Devon, stonemason and sculptor for chain and apparatus
                                            ;       a
for straight, square, arid parallel stone and marble sawingj
which chain may he applied to other useful purposes. Dated
February 12.
  To John Marshall, of Northwick, in the county palatine
of Chester, salt proprietor and John Naylor, of Hartford,
                                     ;
in the same county, salt proprietor for new and improved
                                              ;          a
method or manner of manufacturing and making salt. Dated
February 14.
  To Thomas Kentish, of Baker-street, North, in the parish
of Saint Marylcbone, in the county of Middlesex, esq.; for
certain improvements    the construction of machines or en
                               in
gines applicable to the moving, raising, or lowering of heavy
bodies and weights of all kinds, either upon land or on
board of ships and vessels.  Dated February 20.
  To John Woodhouse, of the parish of Hcyford, in the
county of Northampton, engineer for certain improvements
                                             ;
relative to canals. Dated February 20.
   To John Jones the younger, of Birmingham, in the county
of Warwick, tool-maker and die-sinker; for improvements
in   the mode   of manufacturing           barrels for fire-arms.            Dated
February 20.
                                                                        METEORO-

                                        Meteorology.                                              «J5
                                       METEOROLOGY.
     Monthly recapitulation of meteorological observations
made at the forest four miles east of the river Mississippi,
in latitude 31° 28" north, and in longitude 91° 30" west of
Greenwich, for the year 1800. By William Dunbar, esq.
                        Thermometer.                         Barometxk.                     Rain.
                                                       si
                                                                                  Height.
                                 8m
                    a"                                                     Mean
                                                                                              O
                    6s
                                                                                             H
    Year    1800.
                    Deg.         Deg.    Deg.         Inches.    Inches.   Inches.          Inches.
January                 68       *»*     43.J.j!      30.05      29.60     29.90             1.32
February                72       25      42+'l        30.10      29.52     30.02             3.11
                                                1
    March               78
                             j
                                  23      m           30.00      29.38     29.78             1.53
    April               85
                             j
                                  44      66| 30.07              29.65     29•84             6.92
    May                 90J.;     61      72          29.95      29.62     29.76             3.94
                                                1
    June                                                                                      1.26
'
                        96   1    61      79V! 29.99             29.61     29.80
    July                96        63      81*         29*99      29.78     29.90             4•83
    August              96        70      82          29.99      29.71     29*86             0.35
    September           90        59      76+1        29.99      29.71     29•83              4.40
    October             87        36      66          30.29      29.78     30.19              0.40
    November            79        22      56    1     30.43      29.91     3013               0.03
    December            75        12      47}         SO. 30     29.74     30.05              3.00
                                                1 1
    Whole Year          96   1    12      6<J   ±
                                                j     30.4   8   29.33     29.92            31.09       j
      Mr. Dunbar'sgeneral observations on each month say,
The  month   of May    the most agreeably temperate, and one
                                  is
of the driest but the present
                    ;            an exception to the rule.
                                                      is
                                                                                        METEORO-

96                                        Meteorology.
                             meteorological table,
                         Bv Mr. Carev, of the Strand,
                                       For February            1806.
                          Thermometer.
                                                                      DegreesofDry-
                                                                                         Hygrometer.
                         u c                        Height of
Days of the                        e                                                                          Weather.
                                                    the Barom.
                                   o     (J
                                                                      ness
  Month.                                       so                          by
                                                                              Leslie's
                                   o
                     P        o                      Inches.
                         00 ^
     Jan.    27          33°      39°     34°        29.10                      5°                     Cloudy'
             28          34       36      34           •10                                             Cloudy
                         34       36      34           •15
                                                                             0 4                       Snow
             89
             30          28       34      33            •15                    5                       Cloudy
             31          28       37      30           •54                 10                          Fair
      Feb.   1           28       42      31           •84                 16                          Fair
                         31       37      32           •90                   0                         Snow
             6 5 4 3 2
                         32       35      31           •62                    7                        Cloudy
                         33       37      35           •62                   0                         Clouay
                         46       53     47            •64                18                           Fair
                         41       47     46            •70                   9                         Showery
                         45       53     46            •60               24                            Fair
             8 7         44       52     46            •80               20                            Fair
             9           44       47     40            •59                  0                          Rain
             10          40       48     39            •73                15                           Fair
             11          37       47     41            •82                10                           Fair
             12          37       44     39            •84               26                            Fair
             13          40       44     32            •69               15                            Cloudy
                         33              36            •40                                             Rain
                                                                            0 0
             14                   41
             15          37       42     37            •56                                             Rain
             16          38       44     37            •84                    7                        Cloudy
             17          36       47     35         3000                 21                            Fair
             18          35       42     31            •20                15                           Cloudy
             19          38       43     39            •23                15                           Cloudy
            20           39       43     40         29'95                 10                           Cloudy
            21           41       50     45            •83                    7                        Cloudy
            22           46       52     40            •61               10                            Fair
            23           42       50     44            •80               12                            Cloudy
            24           44       55     48         30.20                22                            Fair
             25          46       54     47            •22                15                           Cloudy
                     N. B. The         barometer's height        is   taken at noon.

                                 C  97     ]
              I        r
 XVIII.    On the Possibility of naturalizing the Cachemire
    Goat  of India to the Climate of Europe : in a Letter from
    Dr. DE CARRO, of Vienna,            to Professor   PICTKT, of Ge
    neva*.
                                                     Vienna, Iuly 3, I80S.
  JL o u remember, sir, undoubtedly, the project which I
 communicated of profiting by the complaisance of nu
 merous correspondents whom I have in different parts of
Asia,   and of the obligations which they acknowledge they
owe to me for having furnished them with the means of
propagating vaccination through a great part of the East.
You know that my principal aim was to direct their atten
tion to the alimentary plants of Asia, the culture of which
might be useful in Europe.          Of such plants I have conti
nually solicited the seeds, with instructions for the necessary
culture, relying at all times in this search on the informa
tion of the learned     Dr. Roxburgh,         manager of the botanic
garden at Calcutta.       I have also had recourse       to you, sir, in
requesting your suggestions on those objects which might
be particularly useful to our country.              You have thought
of mountain rice. I have asked it from my correspondents ;
and, in spite of the small hopes of success which your expe
riments have hitherto afforded           me,   I shall still submit to
your care    and   experiments the specimens of such articles
as I receive from the East.         You have, among other things,
enjoined me     to consider    if  means    could be used to bring to
Constantinople a pair of those famous goats              tf  which the
wool is -manufactured into those beautiful and costly Cache-
mire shawls, so much in fashion throughout Europe and
Asia.
    Considering the difficulties of such an enterprise, it is
proper to cite, perhaps, the very passage of your letter of
the 21st of March 1805: — "Do you believe it possible to
bring to Constantinople a pair of shawl goats ? The English
have not succeeded in naturalizing this Indian animal to
their own climate.      A single goat was brought to England,
                • From Bil-Uotheque Britannique, voL
Vol.  24. No.   94. March, 1806.            G                          tout

08                O/i the Cacliemire Goat     of India.
but died almost immediately on its arrival. The attempt,
however, may have been made without suitable care.
TVJy experience       in sheep makes me unwilling to believe
in the impossibility of naturalizing a breed to any cli
mate.      But it   is an enterprise for a prince       :    for the shawl
goat must be brought from the mountains                  of Thibet,       and
there would be many difficulties to surmount              in obtaining a
specimen.       It is a problem which      I submit to you for solu
tion."     Judging, as you do, that the difficulty of bringing
goats   from Thibet would be in fact insurmountable, I set
about obtaining information if there was no climate nearer
Constantinople to which this animal was naturalized. This
was my object in a note which I sent on the 4th of April last
to  Mr. Wallenbourgh, who passed many years at Constanti
nople when employed in the Imperial legation, but now in
the state chancery at Vienna, and who is well skilled in the
languages and commercial affairs of the East.                  He liad the
goodness to communicate to me the answer which he re
ceived, and to allow me to make what use                   I  might please
of it.
       "?./;-. Cvgiasar     dc So[)hlaly lo  3/r. ll'ulleitbourgh.
   "   Although during my stay of some years at Bagdad                       I
busied myself in collecting all possible information concern
ing the manufacture of Cacliemire shawls, yet I was desirous,
if pdssible, to obtain some further information from                a Persian
merchant lately arrived here, that I might answer the note I
received from you.          The animals whose ileece affords the
Cachemirc shawls are not goats, but sheep.                 There is a di
stance   of 305 conak* (Jays- journeys) between the moun
tains where they are found, and Bagdad. To be sure of pre
serving a couple of pairs of those sheep, it would be neces
sary to make a purchase          of twenty pairs for the journey, as
the change of climate, and the length of the way, would be
very dangerous to them.            It would be necessary to send to
a confidential person       to make this purchase, and to conduct
the animals    hither;     and he could scarcely return in less than
five years,    owing     to   the   mode of travelling.          It   is  well
known      that these journeys        are made   with caravans          of ca-
                                         f                              mels ;

                   On the Cachemire       Goat   of India.               99
 taels ; and the same camels          that leave this place do not go
 on to Bagdad, these caravans being bound only from one
 town to another ; so that he is often obliged to wait on his
journey till another caravan is ready to set off. The khans
 or chieftains of these countries are also frequently at war
 with each other; and the traveller may be sometimes shut
 up six months, or a year, in some town, from which he dares
 not attempt to stir. — Such are the reasons of the journey
 being so tedious.
    "It is impossible to bring the sheep in question in any other
 way than by these caras-ans of camels, by putting a pair in
 panniers upon ?ach camel. This would cost at least 1500
 piastres for the hire of the camels ; besides, at least, 1 500
 more, to pay the confidential         person    employed to purchase
 and convey them        :  and besides    all this, it would be still ne
 cessary to hire three or four persons           to take charge   of those
 animals during      a  long journey.
 -  " It is questionable, however, how far one could count on
 the fidelity   of this description of people; for they are often
 tempted by the love of gain, instead of fulfilling their com
 mission,    to stop in those      distant countries,     where ene can
 only hear of them once a year, and speculate with the mo
 ney which has been advanced to them.                   We have experi
 enced this ourselves.        Twelve years ago we intrusted 50,000
 piastres to a factor who went to get shawls manufactured for
 us at Cachemire;         and we are still waiting his return : in the
 mean time he is amusing himself with speculations at our
 expense.
    '•-Thus, setting aside these inconveniences, it would be ne
 cessary to calculate on an expense of more than 50,000 piastres,
 without    the certainty,     even  if   the   object were attained, of
 saving a couple       of pairs of    the    sheep.    Their food is her
 bage; but,     an  they have to pass through deserts,        it would   be
 necessary    to have always sufficient quantities in store;           and
 this would     require still more camels for its carriage, which
 must, of course, augment the expense.
    " If the   person     who desires to have two or three pairs of
 these animals,        wishes them       as curiosities, he must risk
 SOiOOO piastres; but if it be for the purpose of multiplying
                                   G   2                                the

100                   On the Cachemire          Goat   of India.
the breed in Europe, and obtaining their fleece for the ma
nufacture of shawls like those of Cachemire, 1 doubt if he
could succeed at all. The change of climate would, at first,
assuredly deteriorate the fleece.    Besides, I am certain
that it would be impossible to imitate the shawls of Cache-
mire.   Their goodness, their elasticity, the liveliness of their
colours, are owing to the water of the river which passes
through the city ; and the same shawls, when washed in the
same river fifteen           miles further down, do not            acquire the
same good qualities : the difference is incredibly striking
both to the feeling and sight.    It would be therefore use
less to bestow so much expense on this object.
   " Such,          sir, is the best information          I can    send you on
the subject of your inquiries ; I am sorry I can send you
none more favourable. With respect, I am yours, &c.
                         "
                   (Signed)    COGIASAR DE SOPHIALY*."
   All       these details   justify       the opinion you have expressed   of
the     great difficulty       of   the enterprise.       It is not, however,
such     as a       government, or    rich company, could not at
                                            a
tempt.             If such information could be turned to use, I
should rejoice to have communicated it.     You have stated,
on the authority of some travellers, in some passages of the
Bibtiotheque Britannique, that the animal in question is a
gnat : according to the preceding letter it is a sheep. Which
is in the right ? If it be Mr. Cogiasar de Sophialy, it is for
you, sir, a great encouragement to continue your efforts for
the amelioration of wools, and the imitation of the Cacbe-
mire shawls.
        Observations         of M. Plctet       on the preceding Letter.
   It   is    in   the vallevs and on the mountains           of Great Thibet
that the animal lives which furnishes materials for the ma
 nufacture of Cachemire shawls. The distance is thirty days-
journey eastward from Cachemire to the place where they
 are found.   (See Forster-s Travels in Cachemire.)   We are
 entitled to call this animal by the name of goat, on the au-
   * Mr. Cogiasar do Sophialy    according to Mr. De Wallenbourgh,
                                     is,                            on* of
the greatest merchants of Constantinople, an Armenian by birth, and the
most skilful person in commercial matters to whom he could have addressed
himself.
                                                                       thority

                    On the Cachemire Goal               of India,                    101
 thority     of    a passage taken from Turner-s                     Relation   of   an
Embassy           to Thibet, published in 1800.
                                            The English
ambassador had passed the Eootan and approached Teslwo
Lamboo, the residence of the lama, in the 28th degree of
north latitude, before he saw any herds of those precious
animals.
     "   The shawl goats feed in numerous herds on the short
and      scanty herbage which scarcely covers those elevated
places.        This animal   is,   perhaps,        the most beautiful of all
those that compose the numerous family of the goat kind.
Their colour varies much. Some are black, some white,
some blucish, and others           of   a  little lighter than that of
                                            tint   a
a   young fawn.        This goat has straight horns^ and       shorter     is
in height      than the smallest  English              sheep.       The   matter em
ployed for the       fabrication of shawls             is   a   tine down which lies
close to the skin.       A   long coarse hair covers                 this down, and
serves to preserve its softness."
   Forstcr, who carefully examined the valley of Cachemire,
calls the matter of which these shawls are made wool.  But
he never saw the animal;           and this expression no more proves
its being the production of  sheep, than the term vigonia
                                        is a
                             not of the goat kind.
wool proves that the vigon                           \Ve
know that the camel, the paca, the glama, the vigon, the
goat of Tauris, and one of the varieties of the goats of Sy
ria, yield, under the long and coarse, hair, down more or less  a
fine.     It  true that there are races of sheep, such as those
               is
of Shetland, those of Iceland, and some parts of Siberia and
Tartary, which have in like manner       fine and soft down a
under their rough wool.  Thus, the animal of Thibet which
produces the precious matter of the shawls may, perhaps, be
a   sheep.     By              should belong rather to the
                    its dimensions      it
sheep than the goat race, and    would not be astonishing
                                             it
that travellers should have made some mistake.     Samuel
Turner inspires confidence in his observations respecting
natural history.   He appears accurate in all the details re
lating to his mission.  He describes distinctly all the ani
mals of those high regions, and, in particular, the sheep of
the country.    The manner in which he speaks of the flocks
of shawl     goats leaves no room to doubt that he has examined
                                     G      3              those

 I OS            On the Cachemire    Goat  of India.
those animals minutely. The word goat, which the English,
who are best acquainted with those countries, have given
the animal, is a strong indication that it is not a sheep,
since they would have called them shawl sheep             if it had
 shown the characters belonging to that race.
    The important point, however, is not its being a goat or
a sheep, but whether it can be transported and naturalized
to the c'imate of Europe. When we gave our correspondent,
half in joke, half in ekrnest, the problem to solve, whether
a pair of those goats could be brought to Constantinople, we
thought of the possibility of bringing them from the moun
tains of Lesser Thibet, near the country of Cachemire, and
where the analogy of climate seems to indicate that they
could live equally well.       From the mountains of Lesser
Thibet the river Giluma runs into the Caspian sea. The
navigation of this river from Badacian to Sellizure is 400
leagues ; and the navigation of the Caspian, from Sellizure
to Feorabath or to Terki, is about 200 leagues. From thence
would remain the passage by land to Trebisond on the Black
sea, or by the route to the mouth of this river, which, as is
well known,      formerly served for transporting     merchandize
from India.
    The letter of our friend-s correspondent gives, perhaps, an
exaggerated    idea of the real difficulties of transporting this
 animal  ; but the greatest difficulties might still occur in the
 proper regimen for their preservation in Europe.         Thibet is
 the highest country of the old continent, and the air is uncom
 monly dry during the season which is not properly the rainy
season, i. e. from October to June Or July.           The herbage
of the pastures grows brown and dry, so as almost to crum
ble to powder when touched.         It is this dried grass, very
scanty in quantity, but apparently containing much esculent
 substance  in small volume, which is the sole nourishment
of the shawl goats.      Could the animal subsist without a si
milar nourishment ? Would it be possible to procure the
 same grass, in some parts of the Pyrennees, or the Alps? Is
it not necessary for the animal to have a far southern cli
 mate, and   a  soil extremely dry ?   If it could live in another
 climate, would it retain the down which         preserves it from
                                                                the

                           0/2 the Theory       of mixed      Gases.                      103
the cold    or would this down preserve its softness, its fine
                ?
ness, its strength and elasticity, which constitute its value?
     As   to the secret virtue            of   the river which runs by Cache-
mire, and which       it loses further down, it may perhaps he
of   that kind of virtue which was attributed exclusively to the
little river of the Gobelins.    In all countries, the people who
have brought any process of art to perfection are interested
in throwing a mystery over the operations to which they owe
their success. If this idea of obtaining the shawl goats to
Europe be not chimerical, it is for France to realize  -since                       it,
it   possesses the greatest variety                of climates. — Our          readers    will
judge     this specimen of the benevolent activity of Dr. De
           by
 Carro,  whose success in propagating vaccination has only
increased his zeal for the advancement of useful knowledge.
XIX. An              Essay on the Theory   inired Gasei, and the
                                                       of
     Slate      of    Water in the Almcsphere.    By Mr. JOHN
     COUGH *.
Jfonu        essays appear         in   the fifth volume       of   the Memoirs            of
the Literary and Philosophical   Society of Manchester, hieh                         ^
contain many new ideas relating to the constitution of mixed
gases, and the state of water in the atmosphere. The design
of these papers    evidently intended to remove certain diffi
                           is
culties "which must strike every man of science who happens
to peruse           M.   de Luc-s theory of atmospherical vapour. This
attempt has              the double recommendation of ingenuity and
novelty; but the leading opinions of the system, even in
its present form, are liable to several objections, which                                 I
am going to point out, being generously invited to under
take the task             by   the author himself.          My doubts           relative to
the subject arise partly from mathematical considerations, and
in   part from the evidence             of experiment. Certainobjcctionsof
the lir.-itclassdispose me to conclude, that an atmosphere con
structed on          Mr. Dalton-s plan will            appear upon examination
to be repugnant to the principles             of the mechanical philo
sophy  l     and     a   direct appeal to experiment has moreover con-
             •      From Manchester     Tramirtions,   second scries,   vul.   i.
                                          G    4                                    vinccj

  104               On the Theory   of mixed   Gases.
 vinced me that well established facts contradict the essential
 points of the theory.
    To begin with      the objections   of the former   class  :  I am
 ready to admit the existence       of a fluid mixture,   such   as we
 find described at page 543, in the fifth volume of the Man
 chester Memoirs, with this reservation, that the concession
 is made merely for the purpose of showing such a combina
 tion to be incompatible with the usual course of things for
 a moment ; which being demonstrated, the inutility of the
 fundamental       hypothesis will follow, as a necessary conse
 quence.       To give   a concise view of Mr. Dalton-s geweral
 notion of the subject, we are to suppose a number of di
 stinct gases to be confined in a space common to them all ;
 which space may be circumscribed by the concave surface
 of   a vessel, or the compressing power       of  an external   fluid:
 besides this, we must imagine         the   constituent particles of
 each    individual   gas to be actuated    by a mutual repulsion,
 while    at the same    time they remain perfectly indifferent to
 the particles which compose the other fluids that are con
 fined in the common space: in short, we are to conceive
 that the -particles of each gas act upon those of their own
 kind in the manner of elastic bodies, but that they obey the
 laws of inelastic bodies as often as they interfere with cor
 puscles of a different denomination.          After premising the
 preceding particulars, we may conceive a certain arrange
 ment of the elementary parts of a fluid mixture, in which
 the adjustment of the whole shall be of a description which
 will form, from particles of     any one denomination,      a homo
 geneous     fluid possessing its own separate equilibrium : con
 sequently each gas will exist as an independent being, and
exercise the functions of its elasticity just as if all the other
fluids were withdrawn from the common space.                This sys
tematic arrangement in an assemblage of gaseous substances
cannot be maintained unless one particular method of dis
posing its component parts be observed, which consists in
that distribution of the elements which will produce a sepa
rate equilibrium      in the fluid composed by the elementary
corpuscles of each denomination ; consequently,            the   equi
librium in question cannot take place unless the           necessary
                                                         disposition

                         On the Theory            of mixed            Gases.                          105
disposition of the heterogeneous particles be first established;
so that the former requisite of tHe theory is entirely dependent
on the latter. After having acquired a distinct idea of a
fluid mixture, composed of gases possessing separate equili
bria, we come in the next place to investigate the mechani
cal properties            of     such    a    compound            ;   in the prosecution of
which inqinry             the comparative densities                      of the constituent
fluids must be first determined in                                a   horizontal          plane, the
situation        of which         is given in the common space.
     Let    the figure         PM INKV             (Plate     I.      fig. 2.*) represent this
space, in which M VN K is the given plane. Now since every
point of this plane may be supposed to be at an equal distance
from the earth-s centre, the density of every homogeneous gas
supported by it will be the same in all parts of it. Let the con
stituent fluids be denominated A and B ; also let C denote the
compound ; moreover let the densities of A and B, at P, be p
and   q;     let   PX       and    XY        be two          equal        evanescent           parts -of
the line         PV.        Now,        seeing         the pressure                 acting upon an
elastic fluid is as the density of                      it,   the fluxionary increments
of   p     and   q   are as these quantities                  ;   but the densities                 of    A
and B, in the point               X, are
                           equal to the sums of and     united                       p         q
to their increments respectively let these sums be called                                                 e
       f;
                                                         :
and      then      to   as
                        e   is  fto q,     composition of pro
                                              p   is              by
portion    in
            : like manner  we  find   the density of   at Y to                            A
be to that         of
                        it B
                               at the same point              as      e   is   to   f\   i.   e. as   p   is
to   q
     ;      thence             follows,       that the fluxionary                     increments of
the two densities have universally the given ratio of to                                        p        q
                                                                                                         ;
consequently the contemporary fluents, or the densities them
selves, have the same given ratio now what has been proved
                                                         :
of the two gases A and      may be extended to any other
                                              B
number, viz. the ratios of their densities on the same hori
zontal plane will be given.
  The ratio of A, B, &c. being found to be constant, we
can proceed             to investigate the proportions                       of the quantities
of matter contained in                        these     fluids.           Let D and    be the d
densities of         A      and   B     in   the plane        M KN         V   ;     also let   W        and
tu be the quantities               of matter of              each kind contained                    in   the
variable space              PMKNV;                call PVar,              and       the area       of    the
                                   * Given in our last number.
                                                                                                      plane

106                             On the Theory                  of mixed       Gases.
plane MKNV y: now the fluxion of the space PMKNV
is expressed by y into the fluxion of x; moreover the quan
tities of matter in two solids are in the complicate ratios of
their magnitudes and densities,(or in that of the densities
only, if their magnitudes be equal; therefore the fluxion of
W      is to that           of w      as   D    is to.rf, because the fluxionary mag
nitude is common both to                                   \V    and      w,    but       D   is to d as p
to q, a constant ratio; consequently fluxion                                      of      W is      to   fluxion
of w     asp is to q ; therefore W has to w the same given ratio;
that       the matter in A
         is,                     to the matter in
                                                is    as      to q.                  B             p     is
In    the next place let     and    be the distances of the centres
                                           R          r
of gravity of A                      and        B, from             the   point      P,    taken         in the
line     PI    :    then     R       into the fluxion                of W       is   equal to the pro
duct of        D, Y, x,              and the fluxion                 of x, from           a   well known
theorem in mechanics                       ;    for the same reason              r     into the fluxion
of w     is   equal to the product                        of   d,   y, x,     and fluxion           x;       hence
R   into fluxion of                  W     is   to   r    into fluxion          of w          as    D    is   to   d;
but    D   is      to   d       as   -fluxion of          W     is   to fluxion iv        ;        therefore       R
and   r    are equal         :       consequently the centres                     of A         and    B       coin
cide, and            the point           of their coincidence                        is   also the centre
of the system C. Thus        appears, that when the compo
                                                     it
nent gases of fluid mixture possess separate equilibria, their
                            a
densities are every where in    given ratio, and they have a                                                        a
common centre of gravity     the converse of which   : equally                                      is
true, viz.    their densities be not every where in
                    if if
                                                         given                                           a
ratio, and              they have not                 a   common centre of gravity, they
do not possess separate equilibria.
    It   is    necessary             to observe in this stage                   of   the inquiry,              that
though we admit the particles of A and     to be inelastic in                  B
relation to each other, the concession must be strictly con
fined to the particles themselves; for the gases which are
composed of them are elastic bodies   they therefore receive              ;
and communicate                       motion according to the laws which are
peculiar to bodies                    of this description. The foregoing pro
perties        of   a       fluid mixture, which                      has been            supposed            to be
duly adjusted, are now to be used in the examination                                                          of   the
fundamental proposition of the new theory intended to ex
plain the constitution of the atmosphere. According to this
proposition,    two gases come into contact the particles of
                        if
                                                                                                          which

                  On the Theory     of mixed   Gases.               107
 which    are perfectly inelastic in respect      of  each   other, the
 particles of A meeting with no repulsion from those of B
 further than that repulsion, which as obstacles in the way
 they may exert, would instantly recede from each other as
 far as possible in their circumstances, and consequently ar
 range themselves    just as in  a void space.      The preceding    are
 the  words of the author of the theory            ; and  it is readily
 granted   that the particles  of swh      a  heterogeneous mixture
 would    recede  from each olher      as  far as circumstances     will
 permit  ;  the present subject of inquiry, then, brings the dis
 pute to this issue — Can that arrangement take place amongst
the particles of two or more gases, which will make their
 centres   of gravity coincide in one point ? For the separate
 equilibria of the fluids which enter into the constitution of
 the compound, will not be established until this arrangement
be perfectly formed.       The completion of this process being
essential to the new theory, the effect of it has been, per
haps, too hastily inferred in the fourth proposition of Mr.
Dalton-s first essay ; for I am sorry to observe that the in
ference is not supported by demonstration drawn from the
doctrine of mechanics.         It  is the business     of  the  present
essay to supply what has been           omitted, and to investigate
the consequences     which must arise from the collision of two
heterogeneous gases differing in their specific gravities.
   The existence of the fluid mixture, required by the theory,
has been granted already for the sake of argument ; and in
order to continue the inquiry it must be remarked at pre
sent, that the necessary internal arrangement of the com
pound C, is liable to be disturbed perpetually by accidents
resulting from the course of things ; to which course the
author of the theory undoubtedly wishes to accommodate
his ideas.     The preceding     assertion   may    be exemplified in
a  manner which       is familiar,   and may bu applied with ease
to natural phaenomena      : let us suppose, then, an additional
quantity of the gas A to he thrown into the pneumatic ap
paratus containing the compound C, which was in a state of
proper adjustment previous to this event. No one will ima
gine that this fresh matter can diffuse itself through the mass
of C with the same expedition that the electric fluid shows
                                                                      in

108                 On the Theory     of mixed      Gases.
in expanding along      conductor : this supposition is contra
                         a
dicted by various appearances, from which the following one
is selected, — agitation is known to accelerate the union of
oxygen and nitrous gas.      The quantity of A then, which
has been newly admitted,    will remain at first unmixed with
E ; but it will act immediately with a repulsive force upon
kindred particles diffused through the compound C. This
new modification of A will not preserve the density of its
parts every where in a constant ratio to the density of the
corresponding parts of B ; and this change will disjoin the
centres of gravity of A and B, which has been proved above.
But when these points are placed apart, the separate equi
libria of the fluids cease to exist, which has also been de
monstrated before : therefore A and B begin to act and re
act mutually; which circumstance disturbs the necessary
adjustment of C, and forces it to assume another character.
It has also been proved in a former paragraph, that the two
fluids will act upon each other in the manner of elastic bodies,
even when the heterogeneous       particles are supposed to be
mutually   inelastic ; consequently A and B will begin to obey
the law     of their specific gravities        as soon as their centres       of
gravity are separated by introducing         into the space occupied
by C, a fresh quantity of A            or B : in consequence of this
alteration the centre of gravity of the heavier fluid will begin
to descend, while that of the lighter moves upwards. When
once the centres of two gases are placed apart, their separa
tion will become permanent ; because, when at a distance,
they    are urged    in opposite directions by             a   force resulting
from    the difference of the specific weights of the two fluids l
and    this contrariety of efforts must continue so long as the
two centres      arc disjoined ; consequently this opposition                 of
force must be lasting, seeing nothing can put an end to                        it.
hut an union, which     will always prevent. Nor can the
                             it
mutual repulsion of the constituent particles of each gas,
considered apart, in any manner promote the junction of
the centre? of gravity of the two fluids, because the action
and re-action of number of bodies amongst themselves do
                     a
not alter the state      of their common          centre   of gravity, whe
ther   it   be at rest or    in   motion   :   so that   A   and   B   are under
                                                                             the

                   On the Theory     of mixed  Gases.            109
the necessity of observing the law of their specific gravities,
just as if the kindred particles of each fluid were actuated by
 no reciprocal repulsion nor any other cause of re-action.
The doctrine of gases, which are mutually inelastic, is ren
 dered indefensible by the preceding arguments ; for the hy
 pothesis is thereby exposed to a difficulty which, the author
 of the theory justly remarks, makes a mixture of mutually
 repulsive gases of different specific gravities an improbable
 conjecture; so that his own objection ultimately discounte
 nances the leading opinions of that theory which it induced
 him    to adopt  in particular.    At   the same time philosophers
 are convinced      that the atmosphere is a compound of gases
 possessing    various  degrees of specific weight ; they moreover
 know that different chemical agents perpetually disturb the
 equilibrium of the compound, as some of them constantly
 absorb while others unfold the gases of which it is com
 posed.     The preceding     facts   are certain ; consequently the
 heterogeneous elements of the atmosphere must be united
 by a common tie, which may be denominated a species of
 affinity, at least while our knowledge of the subject remains
 in its present imperfect state. The transparency of the great
  body of air surrounding the earth, also affords a strong argu
  ment for the chemical union of its component fluids, and
 at the same time discountenances the idea of the compound
 being a mechanical mixture of any description whatever;
  for when a number of diaphanous bodies of different specific
  gravities are mixed together, they form an aggregate which
  is opaque ; but the union of the substances by fusion renders
  the mass transparent in many instances. Now, as the at
  mosphere is diaphanous, we are obliged, by the principles
  of sound argument, to consider it in the light of a com
  pound, the ingredients of which are united by a chemical
  tie.    Whatever may be the condition of the elastic fluids
   which enter into the composition of common air, one thing
   is certain, from a preceding paragraph of this essay, namely,
   no one of them can maintain a separate equilibrium as long
   as  it makes    an individual    of  the  aggregate ; consequently
   each particle  of  the compound      must be urged by a force re
                                                               suUinc

 11O                    On tlie Theory       of mixed        Gases.
 suiting from the general action of the mass, not by a pres
 sure occasioned by a particular member of it.
   On this account it                  is impossible for the aqueous part            of
common air to preserve the character of                       a gas at   low tempe
ratures, because steam cannot support 30 inches of mercury
unless it is heated to 212 degrees of Fahrenheit-s thermo
meter     :   were it then practicable to mrx vapour                  of   a less heat
with atmosljfcerical air, the spring of the gases would reduce
it in an instant to the state of a liquid ; so that the difficulty
which renders De Luc-s theory objectionable in its original
form,     is not removed            in reality by the present modification
of it.
   The theory of mixed gases has been found to be indefensi
ble on the principles of the mechanical philosophy ; and                              I
suspect that part of it which relates to the separate existence
of vapour in the atmosphere, will prove equally unfortunate
when brought to the test of experiment.        Mr. Dalton, in
all probability, supposed he had done all that the confirma
tion of this theory required, by inventing the doctrine of
separate      equilibria; for nothing            more has been offered               in
support of his opinions, particularly of that relating to the
existence of uncombined vapour pervading the atmosphere,
unless the statement of the following experiment, with his
explanation of    may be referred to this head.
                        it,                       If two par
cels   of dry air, which            bulk, density, and tem
                                    are equal in
perature, be confined     equal columns
                                    by   of mercury, in two
tubes of equal bores, one of which    wet and the other dry,
                                                   is
the air, which     thus exposed to water, will expand more
                        is
than     that     which
                     kept dry, provided the corresponding
                              is
augmentations of their temperatures be equal; which phx-
nomcnon     thus explained on the principles of the theory
                is                                                                   :
The vapour           that arises from the sides         of    the wet tube, pos
sesses  spring of its own
         a                    therefore ; takes off part of the
                                                    it
weight of the mercury from the air, and thereby leaves       to                 it
expand itself, so as to re-adjust the equilibrium.  According
to this explanation,   and    represent the lengths of the
                               if  I        g
columns of dry and moist air at any temperature; and                             if  c
denote the length of column of mercury, equal in weight
                                   a
              7                                         to

                  On tlie Theory   of mixed   Gases.                 Ill
to the pressure that confines the contents of the tubes ; and
   f
if be put for the spring of vapour of the same temperature
                                                            Ic
measured    by  a column    of mercury,  we have    g =         .; from
which    we also get c   = -^—.:    the last expression affords us
an opportunity     of comparing the preceding explanation, and
therefore the theory itself, with facts; for, according to the
 experiments of Mr. Schmidt, 1000 parts of dry air, at 32
 degrees of Fahrenheit, will expand to 1087- 11 parts, by
 being raised to 59 degrees, in contact with water ; call this
 number    g; according to the same author, 1000 parts of
 dry air at 32 degrees will expand to 1053-61 parts, by being
 heated to 59 degrees in a dry tube : let this number be / ;
 therig   —   / = 33-50:     but/,  or the spring of vapour at 59
 degrees, is 50", according to Mr. Dalton ; then fg = 551,
 164; hence c = 16- 15 inches; which expresses the height
 of the barometer, together with the column of mercury con
 tained in the tube.       If the temperature be stated        at 95 de
 grees, c will amount to little more than eight inches : now
 it is highly improbable that Mr. Schmidt made his experi
 ments when the barometer stood at a height indicated by
 either  of   these numbers.      This application of    the theory to
  practice aflbrds   a   presumptive evidence      that the principles
 of it are not altogether just, supposing the experiments of
  Mr. Dalton and Mr. Schmidt to be correct ; but a positive
 proof of    a  want of accuracy in these principles may be ob
  tained by introducing a small change into the manner of
 conducting the experiment made with moist air. This al
  teration consists in discarding the stopple of mercury, and
  substituting the simple pressure of the atmosphere in the
  room of it ; because, when this substance, which is impene
  trable to steam, has been removed, the redundant vapour
  will, according     to   the theory, flow into the atmosphere,
  thereby leaving the     moist  air of tlie tube to follow the law
  of expansion observed by dry air. With a view to find
  whether this be the case or not,        I filled  a bottle with run
  ning water of     the temperature    of 59 degrees,    which, when
  carefully poured out again, weighed       779-1   grains.     The bot
                                                                       tle,

                           On the Theory        of mixed       Gases.
  tie, having a dew left sticking to                  the sides      of   it,   was placed
  in water at the temperature of                      1    26 degreesthe mouth,
                                                                          :
  which remained about an inch                        above the surface, was co
 vered  with my hand, care being taken to remove        fre                           it
 quently for an instant to permit the vapour and expanding
 air to escape. After keeping   in this situation about two
                                               it
 minutes,     I     secured the mouth          in    the manner described             above,
 and inverted         it    in   a   quantity of the         same water, where                  it
 was reduced to 59 degrees    in consequence of which
                                        ;                 took                     it
 up  1622 grains of water, leaving   space equivalentato 6172
 grains.  If the experiment be now inverted, 6172 parts of
 air will occupy the space of 7794 such parts when its tem
 perature    raised from 59 to 126 degrees; which
               is                                       nearly                   is
 double the expansion of dry air in like circumstances.  For,
 according to Mr. Schmidt-s experiments, 1000 parts of dry
 air of 59 degrees will become equal to 1133-O3 such parts,
 by  being heated to    26 degrees
                                 1 therefore, by the rule of
                                                    ;
 proportion,       if   1000 parts give an expansion                 of   1   133*03 such
 parts, 6172 parts give only 820:                     but the difference         of    7794
and 6172    1622, which
               is          nearly the double of 820. The
                                        is
preceding experiment, and others which   have made of the     I
same kind, demonstrate that moist air expands more than
dry air under like circumstances, and the fact subverts the
notion of uncombined elastic vapour mixing with the atmo
sphere.        The accuracy of            the       fact    may be disputed        ;       the
doubt, however,             is   removed        by
                                         repeating the experiment                           :
but so long          as my statement   remains  uncontradicted, the
consequences         of   to the theory in question cannot be con
                           it
troverted      by argument   for : elastic vapour mix with the
                                         if
air,   it   does more than merely enter the pores of this fluid                             ;
for, according to my experiment,  enlarges these pores at
                                                     it
low temperatures, which we know to be impossible, unless
the heat      of   the compound arises to 212 degrees.                        Those who
are convinced         of the superior expansion of moist air, will
readily apply the principle to certain interesting pha-nomena,
in particular to the origin of tornadoes in hot countries, and
the variation of the barometer in temperate climates.
  Mr. Barrow,             an intelligent traveller           in South Africa,          ob
serves,     that the atmosphere           in   Caffraria      is   sometimes heated
                                                                                           to

                    On the Theory       of mixed   Gases.             113
 to 102 or 104 degrees: this is succeeded by local thunder
 etorms, attended with heavy falls of rain and hail, as well as
 violent hurricanes.         I   do not pretend    to assign the refrige
 rating cause, or the agent that produces precipitation in this
 case l I only have to observe, that the portion of air must
 lose much of its elasticity, which is suddenly cooled to 7O
 or 72 degrees, and at the same time parts with the water it
held in solution.     This partial diminution of spring will
destroy the equilibrium of the adjacent parts of the atmo
sphere,      and may be supposed        to produce the tornadoes       of
the tropical regions.   The same cause probably gives rise
to the fluctuations of the barometer in milder climates ; for,
though the changes of temperature are less in the milder
than in the hottest parts of the globe, the agents that pre
cipitate the water of the atmosphere appear to act on a more
extensive scale, and through a longer duration, in the former
situations than they do in the latter. Wet weather is neither
momentary nor local in Europe ; provinces, and even king
doms, are deluged with rain for weeks together. The air,
which discharges such an abundance of water, will lose part
of its spring, according
                       to Mr. Schmidt-s experiments, even
when it suffers no change of temperature : now it is evident
that the equilibrium cannot be restored in an instant, be
cause                 elasticity must be augmented in this
            the diminished
case by currents of air coming from remote places.    The
diminution of spring in the atmosphere is shown by the
fall   of   the barometer, and the subsequent ascent        of the mer
cury indicates the arrival of the restorative currents.    Ac
cording  to  this explanation the barometer   will rise slowly
but gradually in the centre of the rainy district, while the
motions     of it will be more rapid and less regular towards
the    verge of the storm. High winds will also prevail in wet
seasons, which will blow towards the parts where the elastic
force of the air is least , that         is,
                                     where the rains are most
abundant. —   know
               I      not  what  claim to originality   due to is
the foregoing hints towards the theory of the barometer they     ;
have, however, the merit of being      natural consequence of
                                           a
an established fact   ; mean the great dilatation of air satu
                        I
rated    with moisture, which must undergo      proportionate
                                                       a
contraction when deprived of water.
  Vol. 24, Kfo. 94, March 1806.                H               XX. An

XX. An      experimental Inquiry into the Nature of Gravelly
   and Calculous Concretions in the Human Subject ; and the
    Effects of Alkaline and Acid         Substances   on them,  in and
   out  of the Body.      By THOMAS EGAN, M.D. M.R.LA.
                          [Concluded from p. 36.]
                            Experiment     XI.
As     children are such frequent sufferers, Mr. Richards sug
gested the propriety of ascertaining whether the alkaline in
fluence might be weakened by the addition of sugar. One-
half of a calculus, of the uric acid kind, weighing 185,-
grains,    extracted   by my friend Mr. Richard Dease, and
(though under the most unpromising circumstances) with a
dexterity and success not to be exceeded by his late father,
was suspended in a lixivium consisting of eight ounces of
distilled water and twenty drops of weak aqua kali puri
 (partly aerated), and scarce imparting an alkaline taste.
To this    were   added    thirty-six grains of sugar, which, were
found adequate to sweeten it sufficiently.             After remaining
forty-eight    hours   in   a  temperature "varying from 55 to near
 100 degrees, or a medium one of 74 degrees, being dried and
weighed, it was found to lose ten grains three quarters. The
addition, then, of saccharine matter cannot diminish; but
may add to the alkaline energy.
                            Experiment     XII.
    Ten grains of very pure crystallized carbonate of potash
were dissolved in four ounces of distilled water.               In this
filtered lixivium was suspended a fragment of calculus, of
the uric acid kind, weighing seventy-two grains and a quar
ter, for forty-eight hours, on a sand-heat, varying from 50
to 100 degrees (for the fire was not kept up during the
night). Being taken out, dried, and weighed, it was found
to have lost seven grains and a quarter. The solution had
a yellowish green colour, different from the light yellow
tinge of the pure alkaline ones. It also lost its taste, but
without becoming        sweet.      A  quantity   of flocculent animal
matter was separated,         and the dissolved uric acid was, for
                                                                    the

                  On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.                         115
the greater part, again precipitated, upon the mixture cool
ing, to the temperature of the atmosphere.
 i-
                             Experiment         XIII.
  The crystallized carbonate of potash, being generally pre
scribed in the proportion of one drachm to four ounces of
water ; in a similar mixture was suspended an entire cal
culus*       of   a very compact,         rough,      and    gritty appearance,
weighing forty grains and a quarter. After remaining forty-
eight hours in the above temperature, it was taken out, dried,
and weighed, and found to have lost three grains three quar
ters. The solution here more highly coloured than in the for
mer: some spontaneous precipitation; and an immediate one,
on the addition of a few drops of weak marine acid. We then
find the vegetable alkali in the fullest state of saturation,
with carbonic acid, that we can procure                    it,   in the solid form,
acting powerfully on these            concretions,           when asiisted by
degrees      of temperature      even much inferior             to that of the
human body.
      Now,    as to the mineral       alkali,      nature presents us with
similar, nay, more extraordinary results, in the mild mi
neral alkaline impregnation of the waters of Carlsbad, in
Bohemia.  Here are several springs, varying in temperature
from 114 degrees to that of the Brudel at 165 degrees.
According to Elliot, they contain, in the gallon, of aerated
lime 36 grains; muriate of soda 48     aerated soda 102
                                                  ;         vi-              ;
triolated soda    drachms
                    6        some minute proportion of iron,
                                ;
and    aconsiderable carbonic acid impregnation.     But Klap-
roth rates the proportion of mineral alkali still higher.
      Of the lithontriptic      effects    of    waters, Springfield
                                                 these
gives us   very surprising
             a                      account indeed founded, how
                                                             :
ever, upon numerous experiments, instituted upon the spot,
by the immersion of many calculi in the sources themselves;
where they were cither entirely dissolved, or acted upon with
an energy that must appear incredible,     we did not consider
                                                      if
the nature of the menstruum, its high temperature, and con
stant renewal        by
                  the flowing of the stream. Nay, the urine
of patients who         used these waters for         a   few days was found
to possess        powerful lithontriptic        effects,    as appeared     by   the
                                    H     2                            immersion

116          On Gravelly and Calctilaus Concretions*
immersion      of many calculi in it.    For an account    of  these
highly interesting experiments, too numerous for insertion
here, I must beg leave to refer to his Treatise De Prerogm-
tiva Thermarum Carolinarum, in dissoluendo Caiculo Vesicce,
prce Aqua Calcis vivts.
   From these experiments, as well as the highly beneficial
effects  of these waters, taken internally, by the numerous
calculous and gravelly patients who frequent Carlsbad, he
establishes their superiority over the different alkaline and
other remedies hitherto in use, not excepting Whyte-s
oyster-shell lime water. Now, the lime in these being car
bonated,     and   only kept in solution by their highly aerated
state, we can be at no loss, in those days, to attribute their
superior agency to the alkaline impregnation, assisted by so
high a temperature. Klaprolh affirms, that a person who
drinks these waters, in the usual quantity, for twenty-six
days, takes of mild mineral alkali 39I3 grains, or 8 ounces
 1 drachm and 13 grains; which amounts             to two drachms
and a half per day, besides the other saline ingredients.
   Doctors Rutty and Smyth, who gave us a valuable extract
from this publication, in the Memoirs of the Medical and
Philosophical     Society  of this city, (now in the library  of the
Royal Irish Academy, but which, we have sincerely to regret,
were never published, and are now discontinued,) conclude
their account by the following query : " May not some al
kaline lixivium be contrived by art, that would          possess si
milar   effects  with these waters ?" And      has   not this partly
taken place     in the instance of our soda    waters ?   But may
we not make a nearer approximation by a solution of the
above specified proportion of mineral alkali in the relative
quantity of water, with the addition or omission of the car
bonic acid, and the other saline ingredients, as may be thought
proper, afterwards heating, however, each separate dose t3
1 60  degrees   ?
   We    find, then, the alkaline carbonates, in the great labo
ratory of nature, as well as in our experiments, exerting con
siderable solvent powers upon these animal concretions con
trary to what has been hitherto supposed.
                                                        Experiment

             On Gravelly and Calctitous Concretions.          117
                        Experiment     XIV.                  9
   Into a filtered solution of ten grains of salt of   tartar, in
 four ounces of distilled water, were introduced two fragments
of calculi, weighing seventy-four grains and a quarter. The
mixture was set aside     for forty-eight hours in a cool room l
temperature varying from 47 degrees at night, to 55 degrees
in the day. After twelve hours it began to be coloured, and
continued to be more so, until the temperature fell to 51
degrees,   when a precipitation took place, and continued
during the night ; so that it appeared to deposit at the tem
perature of 47 degrees, what was taken up at degrees some
what exceeding 51°.      These fragments, on being taken out,
dried, and weighed, were found to have lost three grains and
three quarters ; the laminae disposed to crack, and the strata
to separate and crumble.         This weak lixivium, then; ex
erted much energy, even in a very low temperature.
                        Experiment     XV.               .
   A fragment of calculus, weighing seventeen grains three
quarters, was immersed in a lixivium of similar strength ;
but now exposed to a temperature varying from 51 degrees
at night to about 95 degrees in the day.       After forty-eight
hours, it was found to lose five grains -and a half: a prodi
gious quantity, when we consider the small surface pre
sented by this fragment, weighing only seventeen grains
three quarters. The solution, upon cooling, became turbid
as before, and precipitated a large proportion of the dissolved
uric acid.
                        Experiment     XVI.
   A  fragment of calculus, weighing forty grains three quar-
fers, was immersed in four ounces of soda water for forty-
eight hours, and exposed        to a temperature varying    from
55 to about 100 degrees.       Its loss amounted  to one grain.
A  repetition of this experiment afforded nearly the same re
sult ; and demonstrates, that though the soda, in this super-
carbonated state, still exerts some energy on concretions of
the uric acid kind, yet it is but feeble ; and that these waters
appear more capable of preventing their formation than ef-
                                H  3                     ftcting

US          On Gravelly and Calcukus Concretions.            •
feeting their solution, when they once acquire the aggregate
stafe.    The same fragment, in a similar quantity of soda
water, in the temperature of from 50 to 55 degrees only,
sustained no loss, after forty-eight hours.             And here we
have another proof of the necessity of seriously attending to
the degree of temperature in all researches of this kind.
    But it may be observed, as to the internal use of alkaline
substances    in particular,    that their effects must be consi
derably weakened       upon their immediate admixture with the
urine  ; as  the small quantity that can be conveyed there
must, in the first place, neutralize the uncoinbined phos
phoric acid in all urine, the benzoic in children-s, and de
compose the ammoniacal and magnesian phosphates in that
of  every period   of life.  It must    be acknowledged its efficacy
is partly counteracted by these circumstances, which should
never be overlooked, and always taken into account in prac
tical application.      Referring to Fourcroy-s instructive essay
on this subject,      Memoirs of       the  National    Institute, and
 Co?mo?ssances    Chimiques, let us here once more appeal            to
the test   of experiment.
                          Experiment     XVII.
    A  fragment of calculus, weighing eighteen grains one
quarter, of the uric acid kind, was suspended, for forty-
eight hours, in an alkaline lixivium, consisting of four
ounces and a half of recent urine, and twenty drops of a
very weak, and partly aerated, caustic lixivium ; medium
temperature about 74 degrees.             On being taken out, and
dried,   it was found    to have   lost  one grain three quarters ; a
considerable quantity from so small a specimen.                 To the
filtered solution were added a few drops of dilute marine
acid, which, after a few minutes, precipitated a reddish cry
stalline matter in a triple proportion of what ^generally           oc
 curs in the natural state of urine.
    From    the above experiments, therefore, it appears no
 longer   doubtful  ; first, that pure lime, even in the small
 proportion contained in lime water, and the pure alkalies,
 in  an extreme state    of dilution, in temperatures even some
 what inferior to    those of the human system, exert an active
 solvent power on calculi     of the uric acid kind   :  secondly, that
                                                                    the

         k
                On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.               119
  the alkaline carbonates, under similar circumstances, are
  possessed of similar powers, though in an inferior degree :
  and thirdly, that, by our having ascertained this point, we
  have removed a long established error, substituted a disco
 very highly interesting to animal chemistry, and likely to
  be productive of a more enlightened and successful practice
  in the treatment of these diseases.
     In   these  expectations we shall appear to be the better
 founded, when it is considered, that, for want of entire spe
  cimens (preserved here like the oriental bezoars of old), we
 were    obliged to operate upon fragments presenting small
  surfaces   only to our solvents : that these last were never
 renewed during the course of the experiments, which would
 not have occurred in their application in the form of injec
 tions ; as they should, in that case, be so often repeated,
 and act,    of course, with renewed energy : that, either taken
 internally, or used in form of injection, the smallest propor
 tion of alkaline matter, in a great state of dilution, assisted
 by the human temperature, answers our purpose ; and that
 the temperature in our experiments was never permanent,
and might be rated at the medium one          of  74 degrees.
    Having now fulfilled      the second object      of this  essay,   I
would      no longer presume to trespass on the indulgence of
the academy, if I were not actuated by the sanguine hope of
turning the attention of my surgical friends to the humane
consideration of obviating,       as much as possible,       the most
dangerous of operations by       the prudent application      of a few
safe solvents injected into the     bladder.      How far they may
succeed with calculi      of the uric acid kind, may be already
cbnjectured from the      preceding experiments ; but with those
of  the next most frequent occurrence there is much less diffi
culty to encounter, and every reason to hope for a speedy
and safe result.      The ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate is
partly soluble in water, highly so in the carbonic acid (as
we have already seen) ; and, consequently, more so in the
weakest possible acid impregnations that can be devised ;
nothing more being necessary than the addition of as many
drops only of weak muriatic acid         as  will  scarce impart an
acid taste.     But as precept should,    in every instance,     be as
                        \       H4     -
                                                                much

 ISO          On Gravelly and Calculotts Concretions.
much      &s  possible assisted    by experiment,      I  shall, for the
encouragement of the young practitioner, exhibit a few on
 this very soluble species the more willingly, as he has no
 assistance   to expect from his professional books ; these sub
jects being only treated of in Philosophical Transactions,
 Memoirs of the National Institute, and a few other foreign
 chemical publications, if we except Whyte-s Treatise on
 Lime Water,       to  which we would willingly       refer  him.
                          Experiment     XVIII.
    An entire calculus, of a reddish, gritty        appearance,    exter
 nally,    proved   to consist   of ammoniaco-magnesian            phos
 phate, weighing forty-six      grains one quarter, was suspended,
 for forty-eight hours, in a mixture consisting of four ounces
 of distilled water and ten drops of weak marine acid. After
 being taken out, and dried, it was found to have lost six
 grains three quarters. The mixture was whitish, lost its
 acid taste, and precipitated, on the addition of a few drops
 of fixed alkali, the ammoniaco-magnesian phosphate, under
 that beautiful     crystalline  form so accurately described by
 Dr. Wollaston.
    We may readily conceive how much more                the loss would
 have amounted        to in this  case,  in the short space     of forty-
 eight hours, if the menstruum had been frequently repeated
 under the regular influence of human temperature.
                           Experiment     XIX.
    A   fragment of the same species with the above, weighing
 twelve grains, was immersed, for forty-eight hours, in three
 ounces of distilled       water, without      addition   : temperature
 from    60 to near 100 degrees.        After being taken out, and
 dried, it was found to have lost one grain three quarters,
 became so friable as to crumble, and the solution to preci
 pitate with a few drops of pure ammonia.                This species of
 calculus, therefore, is soluble in water, at temperatures even
 inferior to that of the human.            It is unnecessary I should
 enter into a further detail of experiments made upon calculi
 of the mixed kind, having the uric acid, phosphate of am
 monia, and sometimes, though rarely, phosphate of lime,
                                                             intermixed

              On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.              121
intermixed       in their strata. Suffice it to say, that the very
dilute marine acid speedily takes up the earthy phosphates,
leaves the laminae of the uric acid bare and distinct, ready
to crumble, and of easy solution in the weakest alkaline lix
 ivia, and still more so in lime water : — a most important
  consideration in a practical point of view.
      It  would    be   trespassing too much      on the already tried
  indulgence of the academy, to go further into the detail
  of the circumstances necessary to be attended to, and ac
  quainted with, to ensure success in the application of these
  principles.      These are already tolerably well detailed in the
   Connoissances     Chimiques.      To  the gentlemen   professors in
  the school      of surgery it more particularly       belongs ; and
  from     the  zeal   and talents now in full activity there, what
  may not be expected ? Created only the other day, by a
  Cleghorn, (a name as deservedly as universally revered ;)
   fostered, afterwards, by the anxious care and talents of Mr.
   Dease ; we find it already arrived at a state of perfect matu
   rity, and holding out to the student advantages no where to
   be   rivalled, if indeed equalled : and that nothing may be
   wanting to a complete medical as well as surgical education,
   establishing a chair of botany, supported by the acknow
   ledged abilities of Dr. Wade, both as a botanist and teacher.
    From the    above experiments and observations we may pre
    sume to draw the following conclusions :
       That acids, and acescent drinks of all kinds, give rise to
    gravelly and calcuKnis affections, by causing a separation
    and precipitation of the native uric acid of urine within the
    body.     That all acids, vegetable or mineral, nay, the native
    phosphoric acid of urine, in excess, are equally productive
    of this effect; the tartaric, perhaps, somewhat more so.
    That, on     the other hand,      we find lime, both the fixed al
    kalies, pure    as   well as aerated,   (even in the smallest pro
    portions,)    serviceable   in  these  disorders, by uniting with,
    and keeping in solution,         this acid substance. That they
     also, in the smallest proportions, and diluted state, exert
     strong solvent powers on this acid in its aggregate form of
     calculus,   provided their action be favoured by degrees of
     temperature approaching to the human.            That, under the
                                                                  same

      1 22            On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.
      same             contrary to what was generally sup
               circumstance,
         the carbonated, sub-carbonated, nay, the super-car
      posed,
  bonated, exert similar influence, though in an interior de
  gree.  That lime, even in the small proportion it presents
  itself to us in lime water, is a most active and safe solvent of
  calculi of the uric acid kind,   and its various combinations ;
   as has been long since ascertained by Whyie.    That, weight
  for weight, it exceeds even the caustic alkali in any state of
  dilution that the latter can be applied to the living body.
  That, finding four ounces of lime water, containing only
  two grains three quarters, take up, or detach, seven grains
 three quarters from a very compact calculus, we may be led
 to suppose this may arise from its action on the aggluti
 nating medium, its affinity to, and energy on, animal matter
 being so well known ; and, if so, may we not expect some
 thing from its power on the mulberry calculus, our most
 formidable enemy? For, though it cannot touch the oxalate
 of lime, it -may  the cementing medium, with which it pe
 culiarly abounds.  .
                                                                              -
    For the application of these established facts to useful
 purposes, I must refer to my surgical friends, being all now
 possessed of the necessary degree of chemical acquirement ;
 and I am happy to find this career already entered on by my
 friend Mr. Crampton, who has favoured us with an analysis
 of            calculus in the Philosophical Transactions,
       a pulmonary
and from whose professional as well as scientific talents we
have every       thing     to expect   in fulfilling   (even on this occa-?
sion) his duties as a teacher.
   Having now endeavoured         to accomplish the chief object
of this      essay,which was, to establish experimentally a more
clear and       comprehensive view of the nature of these mala
dies, and the [remedies employed to combat them, than we
hitherto possessed, I should not have trespassed further on
the time of the academy, were it not properly suggested, by
my friend Dr. Clarke, that it would be of importance to
ascertain how far the facts and notions, brought forward in
it,may stand confirmed or contradicted      the result of our
                                                       by
practical application of them in Simpson-s Hospital an               ;
establishment affording the best and most extensive field of
                                                             observation,

               On Gravelly and Calculcus Concretions.              123
observation,       of this kind, of any in Europe, that of Lune-
ville, perhaps, excepted.
    The benefit of this charity extends equally to the blind
and gouty.         In the year 1795 I found it to contain thirty-
two     of   the latter;    and since that period thirty-four have
been admitted        :  in all, sixty-six gouty patients. Of these,
the greater       number have either complained of gravel, or
passed      it without      any previous or concomitant inconve
nience    :   a circumstance which I had every day occasion to
observe, whilst attending to the state of gouty urine. Among
the blind and gouty, however, we may count about twenty-
two as specifically more afflicted, having occasionally com
plained of marked and distinct symptoms of this disorder.
Of    these,    we fmd sixteen among         the gouty, and ,six only
among        the  blind.     Now,    as  the  severity of gout is uni
formly diminished, nay, in many instances, the disease en
tirely removed, by a residence of a few years only in the
house, we must expect to find the same take place with re
spect    to gravel, to which it is so strongly and nearly con
nected. And this singular alleviation of both diseases we
can only attribute to the influence of temperance, and the
manner of living, very opposite to that of their former ha
bits.     The diet in our house consists of bread and milk for
breakfast and supper; beef, or mutton, with table beer, for
 dinner; all of the best quality, and administered with the
 greatest propriety and regularity ; whilst the introduction of
 ardent spirits is prohibited, and sobriety enforced, by the
 strict discipline of the house.            On the other hand, sve find
 that, previous to their admission, they were either addicted
 to intemperance, or in the habit, at least, of muddling in
 public-houses, where, after a libation with porter, they in
 dulged in the free use of acidulated punch (the constant
 nocturnal       practice of our middling tradesmen and shop
 keepers,      who     furnish the greatest proportion of our pa
 tients) . The keeper of a porter-house of considerable re
  sort informs me, that, to please the generality of his cus
 tomers, he finds it necessary to add the juice of an entire
 lemon to about two quarts of punch ; and that, from this
  circumstance, he would have experienced a considerable di-
                3                                             munition

 1 24         On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.
 nn Minion   of his profits, if he did not occasionally substitute
cr^am   of tartar, or the dilute sulphuric acid: an innocent and
safe practice,   in his opinion. Now, so satisfied are our pa
tients of the pernicious effects of acids of all kinds, that we
find many of them refuse to make use of our table beer
during the summer months, through the apprehension of
its acescent quality (as was before observed), and which con
tinued to be the practice of Hewson, Khensk, Clapham, and
others, for years back : nor do our prt&ent two greatest suf
ferers, Sing and Cox, venture on it at any season but with
the greatest caution.
    To  a removal,    then, from    the former occasional causes
we may attribute no small share of the alleviation of those
diseases  which takes place with us : a practfcal observation,
that cannot be too generally known.          But to return to my
subject : — On the slightest appearance of gravelly symptoms,
unconnected with fever, or inflammatory tendency of the
urinary system, our patients have recourse to an alkaline
medicine, the gravelly pills (as they term them), which
consist of desiccated soda, in the most convenient form for
hospital practice, as well as most suited to gouty stomachs.
Of this (as first advised by Beddoes,) one drachm, with the
addition of a few grains of capsicum, or drops of essential
oil, and the necessary quantity of hard soap, or extract, is
made    into  twenty pills. Of these, from three to six, or
more, are taken in the twenty-four hours ; and are found
sufficient, not only to alleviate or remove these complaints,
but even to render the interference of the physician but sel
dom necessary.      We have had also occasion to remark, that
several of our patients, induced by their marked beneficial
effects, carried these pills about them, so as to have occa
sional recourse to them, without         much attention to either
dose or number.
   To this practice, then,     we would be disposed to attribute
the very pleasing and interesting consideration, that, among
so many gravelly patients,       there has not occurred, in the
course   of ten years, a single operation of lithotomy ; nor
has   the catheter, even in the hands of our expert and able
surgeon, Mr. Macklin, been able to discover the smallest
                                                        occasion

               On Gravelly and Calculous Concretions.           1SS
occasion for it.    We could therefore         no opportunity
                                            have
of ascertaining the efficacy of injections into the bladder, as
recommended by Whyte, Fourcroy, and myself.
  I  shall conclude by observing, that it would be interest
ing   to have itin our power to extend these researches to the
urine of those who lire habitually on different aliment and
drinks, particularly of the acescent kind, as well as to that
of those who drink waters with mineral alkaline impregna
tions.  But this desirable object can be only obtained by the
concurrent exertions and attention       of gentlemen of the fa
culty in different countries and    situations.   In private prac
tice it is not to be expected ; for here, wherever experiment
is surmised to be the object, mistrust and suspicion take
place of professional confidence.    The use of the nitric acid
in our venereal hospital, I hoped, would afford some useful
facts as to its effects upon the saline contents of urine; the
uric acid in particular.   But I had not, as yet, sufficient
leisure for that inquiry ; nor could I, hitherto, obtain the
urine of those using     with all the circumstances necessary
                         it,
to enable me, at this moment,        to draw any direct conclu
sions from      my examination     of it.   In many instances,    a
morbid state of the urinary system (the urethra in particular)
took place. Tn others, the combined effects of mercury in
terfered  and in all, no certainty of its not being blended
           :
with the urine of others not using this acid.     could not,
                                                    I
however, help observing, that the few specimens, sent to me,
agreed in one particular, viz. their exceeding very little,  if
                                                            at
all, the usual healthy standard of acidity. This circumstance
must excite our attention the more forcibly, when we con
sider, that two drachms of nitric acid, nay, sometimes three,
diluted in the proportion of one pint of water to each drachm
of acid, were taken daily whilst, on the other hand,
                               ;                           few
                                                            a
drops of the acid elixir of vitriol, or tincturae martis in sp.
salis, nay, the weak vegetable acids, and cream of tartar,
persevered in for    afew days, impart an additional degree of
acidity to the urine.  Would not this observation (if founded),
conjoined with the easy decomposable nature of the acid          it
self, and its action on animal matter, induce us to lean to
the opinion     of those who have already   asserted (hat this acid
                                                                    ia

1 26                        Memoir       upon Guana.
is partly decomposed in the system, imparts its oxygen to                                 \tt
and that, perhaps, to degree capable of annulling or de
                                 a
stroying its properties as an acid           ?
   And    may be here further remarked, in confirmation
         it                                                                               of
snch notion, that those gentlemen most conversant with                                    it
here, as well as most capable of judging, entertain strong
doubts of its supposed diuretic effects, allowance being made
for the necessary quantity of its watery vehicle. If      be,                       it
then, truly deoxygenated in the system, why be deterred                                   by
its failure, as radical cure of siphylis, from extending our
                   a
trials with    here, to other chronic diseases, as they have
              it
already done      in India    ?
XXI. Extract           of a      Memoir      of   Messrs.            FOURCROY            and
  VAUCIUELIN           upon      natural Manure
                                 Guano,     the     the                             of
  South Sea Islands near the Coast   Peru. Read before
  the National Institute. Drawn tip   A. LAUGIER *.     ly of
AMONG the vast numbef of objects worthy of the attention
of naturalists which M. Humboldt has observed and col
lected during his late travels, guano  one of the greatest im
                                                   is
portance.    In making   us acquainted with this singular sab-
stance, one of the principal resources of agriculture in the
countries he has visited, this celebrated naturalist has fur
nished the authors          of this memoir with                  an opportunity           of
confirming    a    discovery which they had made at the very
moment of      M. Humboldt-s     return. The perusal of their
memoir upon the existence of uric acid in the excrement of
birds, created the idea in Humboldt that the guano, found in
the islands on the coast of Peru frequented      great num            by   a
ber   of birds, might       be    of   the same description.
                                                    belongs                    It
to chemistry alone to decide the degree of credit to which
this conjecture   entitled. Messrs. Fourcroy and Vanquelin
                   is
have undertaken the examination                   of this substance, and we
purpose laying before our readers the results               of their labours
as inserted   in the Memoirs of            the   National Institute.
                   From Aimales de Chimie, vol. Ivi.
               •
                                                                p.   258.
                                                                                    Before

                                 Memoir upon Guano.                                  127
  Before giving an account of the experiments made upon
guano in order to discover its nature, it may not be improper
to communicate             Humboldt-s own opinion,
                              M<                                         as conveyed
in    a   note to the authors of this memoir.
     "    Guano       in great abundance in the South Sea,
                       is found
on the islands of Chincha, near Pisco ; but it exists also on
more southern shores                   and islands, such as     Ilo, Iza, and
Arica.          The inhabitants of Chancay,               who make a traffic of
guano, go and return from the islands of Chincha in twenty
days.  Each vessel has on board from 1500 to SOOO cubic
feet.     A   vanega costs at Chancay 14 livres, at                    Arica   15   livres
tournois.
      "   It lies in     beds    of                     which are wrought
                                      50 or 60 feet deep,
like mines of iron ochre.                These islands are inhabited by an
immense quantity                 of birds, particularly of the ardea (the
heron) and the phcenicupterus (flamingo) kinds, which al
ways pass the night on shore; but it requires a period of
three centuries before                  their excrements increase to four or
five lines in thickness. Is guano a production caused by
changes which   the globe has undergone, like coal or fossil
wood ? The fertility of the otherwise steril shores of Peru
is produced by the use of this substance, which is a staple
article       of commerce.
                      Fifty small vessels called guaneros are
continually employed in searching for     and transportingit,                                 it
to the main land             ;   and we may perceive            the smell      of   it   at   a
quarter of league-s distance.
                   a          The sailors, who are accus
tomed to this ammoniacal odour, suffer no inconvenience
from       it,   but   it   caused us to sneeze         violently on approaching
it.       For           of mace, in particular,
                 the cultivation                furnishes               it                    a
 most excellent manure.   The Indians have taught this me
 thod to the Spaniards.     If too much guano, however,                                       is
 thrown upon the mace, the root       burnt up, and destroyed.
                                                   is
 Guano        is
           extremely aciditiable   so that here we have
                                               ;          ma                        a
 nure of hydrurct of azote, while other manures are rather
 hydrurets of carbon."
      Guano       reddish yellow colour
                   has   a                     almost tasteless,
                                                         ;   it   is
 but has   strong smell, which resembles at once that of castor
              a
 and valerian.    blackens in the fire, exhaling
                         It                       white smoke          a
 and an ammoniacal odour.
                                                                                          Its

   1 28                     Memoir upon Guano.
       Its solubility in water, and, above all, in potash, deter
  mined the method to be taken in its analysis.               They suc
   cessively tried it by means of water, potash, and muriatic
  acid   :  each  of  these  trials gave occasion to observe several
  phaenomena, of which we shall give a succinct account
  without entering into the details, which may be too exten
  sive for an extract.
      Ten grammes of this substance, repeatedly washed in great
  quantities of boiling water, were reduced to 5*7 grammes.-
  The ley had a reddish colour, and reddened turnsole paper.
      Submitted to distillation in B. M ., it furnished ammonia
  during the whole operation : 24 hours afterwards it depo
  sited a reddish yellow powder, a little sapid, having the
 odour of castor ; and it presented on its surface a crystalline
 pellicle    of the  same colour as the precipitate.
     The liquor, filtered and       evaporated  a second time    until it
 was reduced to       3 grammes, still deposited, on cooling, a red
 dish yellow powder, like the first, but less abundant.
     The yellow powder and the mother water which held it
 in solution were examined separately.
     The former presented the following properties : — It is a
 concrete and pulverulent substance, of a brilliant and crystal
 line appearance, and of a reddish yellow colour.           Exposed to
 heat, it burns entirely, and gives out a slight empyreumatic
odour      of ammonia and prussic acid. Although little soluble
in cold water, it is easily      so  in warm, to which it communi
cates a yellowish colour ; and, although the solution is taste
less, it reddens       the tincture of turnsole ; it precipitates the
solutions     of  acetate of lead and of nitrates of silver and mer
cury in coloured flakes, which the nitric acid redissolves
completely.
     This substance dissolves instantly in an alkaline ley, to
which it communicates a brown colour, exhaling a lively
odour of ammonia.            Sulphuric acid, mixed with a concen
trated alkaline solution,        yields a very thick whitish precipi
tate, and liberates     a sharp smell similar to that   of weak acetic
acid.
    The     celebrated   authors   of the memoir concluded from
these experiments that this powder presents          itself  as an aci
                                                                dulated

                          Memoir     upon Guano-.                      129
dulated salt, formed from an animal acid, ammonia, and a
little lime.     In short, very weak nitric acid, in which this
salt had been macerated to detach its acid from its bases,
yielded, upon evaporation, vapours of ammonia in abun
dance by the addition of potash, and unequivocal signs of
lime by the addition of oxalic acid.
    Freed from ammonia and lime, this substance is less co
loured, and appears less soluble than before : its solution in
boiling water      deposits brilliant crystals tolerably hard, and
reddens    more strongly turnsole paper.             It combines -with
potash easily, and without the smell of ammonia: all the
acids separate it from potash.             It blackens by heat, and
burns without        leaving any residue, giving out a smell of
ammonia and prussic acid.              Its neutral combination with
ammonia does not precipitate the solution of sulphate of
alumine,     as the   honistic acid does.
    It results from all these facts, 1st, That the substance
extricated from guano by boiling water is an acid partly
saturated with ammonia* and a little lime : 2d, That this
acid is  of  an   animal nature, since it yields -ammonia and
prussic acid on being decomposed by fire: 3d, That this
acid, according to all the properties already indicated, is
uric acid,    and similar to that of the excrements of aquatic
birds  :  4th, That it forms about the fourth part of guano.
    The mother water which deposited the powder, the pro
perties of which are about to be detailed, is very acid : pot
ash liberates from it ammonia in abundance ; it therefore con
tains an ammoniacal salt         :  the nitrates of   barytes and silver
announce the presence         of  the muriatic and sulphuric salts      in
it also : lime water precipitates from it white flakes, difficult
of solution in the muriatic acid.
"
    This precipitate, occasioned by lime water, is evidently-
 formed    of two    salts : both dissolve in the acids without ef
fervescence    :  the one is easily dissolved, without        the assist
ance   of heat;    the other is dissolved with difficulty,       even by
the assistance     of heat.    The former     resists calcination   ;  the
latter is decomposed by fire, and afterwards dissolves in the
acids with effervescence.        The one is phosphate and the other
oxalate of lime.
    Vol. 24. No.      94.  March    1806.      I                      The

130                   Memdir    upon Guano,
   The weak nitric acid was      made    use  of by Fourcrfty and
Vauquelin with an intention of separating these two salts
without making them experience any alteration.             It dis
solved the phosphate of lime, without touching the oxalate.
This last salt,  tried with a solution    of carbonate of potash,
yielded a precipitate which dissolved with effervescence in
the nitric acid : this solution evinced all the properties of
nitrate of lime.     The acid separated from the lime united-
with   the potash.     In short,  the liquor presents the charac
ters of the oxalate of potash.      Lime water precipitated from
it a very subtle powder. Sulphate of lime precipitated very
light flakes, and precipitates were formed by all the metallic
solutions which precipitate oxalic acid. Sulphate of alu-
mine did not form any precipitate,       as  might have happened
with honistate of potash.
   The potash which the illustrious authors of the memoir
found in the mother water of guano after its precipitation
by means of lime water, the liberation of ammonia which
they obtained by the -addition of potash in the mother wa
ter before its decomposition by lime water, sufficiently provu
that these two alkalies saturate the acids contained in the
mother water of guano : thus this mother water certainly
contains oxalatcs, phosphates, sulphates, and muriates of
potash and ammonia.
   The five grammes and seven-tenths remaining after the
action of the water upon the ten grammes of guano sub
mitted to the analysis, were tried by caustic potash, which
took eight-teriths from them : this alkaline solution con
tained nothing else than the uric acid, and a small quantity
of fatty matter.
   The muriatic acid,     to the action  of which  the four gram-t
nics and nine-tenths     not attacked by potash had been sub
mitted, did not present upon analysis any thing else than
phosphate of lime, iron, and an atom of carbonate of lime.
   The water,   the potash, and the muriatic acid, successively
employed, left no other residue out of ten grammes of guano
than three grammes, and a tenth part of a matter which was
recognised to be a mixture of a ejuartzy and ferruginous
                                                              The

                        Analysis of Birdlime,                            131
    The result of this interesting        analysis     is ; that the South
 Sea manure is formed,
     1. Of uricacid, which forms the fourth part, and which
 is partly saturated with ammonia and lime.
    8.  Of oxalic acid, partly   saturated    with ammonia        and pot
ash.
    3.  Of phosphoric acid, combined with              the same bases and
with lime.
    4.  Of small quantities of      sulphates     and     muriates of pot
ash and ammonia.
    5.  Of a little fatty matter.
    6. Of sand, partly quartz and partly iron.
    The existence of guano in the places where such multi
tudes of birds assemble, the identity of its nature with that
of the excrements of aquatic birds, necessarily throw great
light upon the origin of this substance.
    Its analysis proves how well founded the ingenious natu
ralist is in his opinion, to whom we are indebted for our
knowledge of this substance, equally interesting to us as
useful to the inhabitants of Peru.           The analysis, also, con
firms the important discovery, which is the happy fruit of
the researches of Fourcroy and Vauquelin.                   In short, it has
the advantage of recalling this well known truth, that the
sciences   mutually enrich each other, in aiding each other
with the various lights     they possess ; and it furnishes a new
occasion to remark, that among all the sciences none have a
more immediate and more necessary connection than che
mistry and natural history.
    XXII.    Analysis of Birdlime.            By M. Bouillon-
                            Lagrange *.
              I.   Origin and Mode of Preparation.
JL he substance termed birdlime is classed among the im
mediate products of vegetables.             M. Fourcroy is the first
who regarded it as glutinous : he has placed it as a species
                  • From xh*Annalts   de Chimie, torn,  lvi
                                I   2                                 under

132                     Analysis of Birdlime.
under this general head in his Systeme           de Conno-usmces
 Ckimiques, vol. vii. p. 306.
   Birdlime,    says  this chemist, is procured from the fruit
of the misletoc    and the tender bark of the holly, as well as
from many other trees, by maceration in water. Although
no one has hitherto examined this substance with sufficient
accuracy, it presents many points of resemblance         to gluti
nous bodies.
   With the exception of what is said in my Manual of a
Course    of Chemistry, I know no work in which any light
is thrown upon the nature of this singular matter.
   M.    Chaptal,   in his Elements of Chemistry, speaks only
of its preparation     : as the process  which is there detailed
differs in nothing from that which is found in the Materia
Medica of Geoffrey, and in the Dictionary of Valmont de
Bomare,     I shall quote the article respecting the preparation
of this substance : —(< The antients employed the berries of
the misletoe of the oak : they boiled the fruit in water, then
bruised them, and strained off the warm liquor, so as to se
parate the seeds and skins.        But we now prefer the bird
lime procured from the bark of the holly : the inner bark,
which is the tenderest and greenest, is made choice of, and
allowed to putrefy under ground; it is then beaten in mortars
to reduce it into a paste, which is washed and kneaded in
water.     This substance was considered as resolvent and
emollient when applied externally."
   We know also that the misletoe         of the oak forms an in
gredient in many pharmaceutical preparations,          such  as the
universal water,      the  antispasmodic powder,     and   Outtet-s
powder.
   The English, according to Geoffroy, prepare their birdlime
from the bark of the holly. They boil this bark, says he,
in water for   seven or eight hours, until it has become tender.
It  is then formed into balls, which are placed under ground,
in  numerous layers, one above another, with pebbles inter
posed; the water being previously all drained off: there
 they are suffered to remain to ferment and putrefy for a fort
night or three weeks, until they have been converted into
 mucilage.     They are next removed and pounded in a mortar
                                                                till

                              Analysis of Birdlime.                        133
  till they can be worked like paste ; after this they are washed
  in a stream of water, and kneaded together, so as to remove
  all foreign matters.          The paste is now deposited in earthen
  vessels for four or five days, till it throws up a scum and
  purifies.       It is then put up in proper vessels, and is ready
  for sale.
     This mode of preparing it           is not generally adopted ; each
  county has its own process, and there are even some persons
  who keep their method secret.
     AtNogent-Ie-Rotron birdlime is              prepared from the shreds
 of   the second bark of the holly : it          is allowed to ferment      in
 a moist place          for fifteen days,     and then boiled in water,
 which      is afterwards evaporated.
     At Commercy            and  in its vicinity     this substance is pro
 cured from different shrubs, as the            holly, the viburnum Ian-
 tana, and the misletoe ; from every different tree, such                   as
 the apple, the pear,          the lime, &c.
     The      best is obtained from the         prickly holly,    and is  of a
greenish colour: that which is                made     from the viburnum
 lantana is yellowish. When this             vegetable     is employed, they
uniformly reject the epidermis,                and    use only the second
bark.
     I  prepared the birdlime which I used in my experiments
 from the inner bark of the holly. On comparing it with
some which            was    made   with   great care,    and sent me from
Commercy, I was unable to discover any sensible difference.
These precautions appeared to me necessary, that a greater
degree of accuracy might be given to the analysis. We well
know that          the   birdlime of commerce is seldom pure ; it is
often     a  mere mixture of vegetable and animal matter, and
often adulterated           with   turpentine,    oil, vinegar, kc . : it is
therefore absolutely necessary to ascertain previously the
purity of this substance ; and the process which I adopted
yielded me birdlime of the best quality.
    I took the inner bark of the holly, bruised it well, then
boiled it in water about four or five hours, and, having
thrown out          the water, placed the bark in earthen         pots under
ground       :  I  allowed it to remain there till it putrefied, or
lather became viscid, taking care to sprinkle it with water
                                       I 3                              from

134                                 Analysis of Birdlime.
from time to time.                    When this          process        was completed                 I
washed          it,   so as to remove all foreign matters.
          II.    Chemical and Physical Properties                       of       Birdlime.
     Birdlime          has    greenish colour; its taste
                               a                           bitter:               is              it   is
glutinous,            ropy, and  tenacious  its odour
                                                    : resembles that                                of
linseed oil.
     When         spread upon         a   plate   of   glass, and exposed for some
time to the air and light,   dries and becomes brown.
                                           it               In
this state     no longer viscid when
                 it   is                    completely
                                                  :      dried    it   is
itmay be reduced to powder;       has then lost all its gluti
                                                   it
nous properties, and                 it   cannot resume them by the addition
of water.
     Birdlime          reddens       the tincture      of turnsole.              When          heated
alone in   porcelain cup
                a           melts without becoming very
                                           it                                                       li
quid  ;  swells
           it   up and forms bubbles, which rise to the sur
face and then burst.   This kind of fusion discovers small
black grains, which give   an uneven appearance
                                          it          diffuses                        :   it
an odour very similar to that of the fat oils when their tem
perature   raised.
                is
     If
      the birdlime be kept in fusion for some time,     ac                                     it
quires   brownish
           a       colour but again resumes
                                          ; all its proper
ties on cooling.                   When    placed       upon red embers                   it   burns
with      a   flame, and emits an abundance                  of smoke.
     Heated in         a    crucible of platina,             it   burns      as      soon      as tire
crucible becomes               red.  Its flame
                                  bright,       rises above
                                                        is                  and
seven inches                      considerable quantify of
                                    attended with
                           is it
                       :       is                       a
srnoke, which    readily condensed upon the vault of the
chimney.   The combustion continues even after the crucible
is removed from the fire.  There remains     white cinder,                  a
which    very alkaline, and partly soluble in water. By tht
           is
use of re-agents we ascertain the presence of sulphate and
muriate of potash.
  The portion which insoluble in water, when treated with
                                     is
the muriatic acid, dissolves with effervescence.
  The solution      copiously precipitated
                              is                 the oxalate of             by
ammonia; prussiate of potash produces         blue precipitate;    a
and  with ammonia     lets fall  matter of
                                    it         pasty consist
                                                   a                    a
ence, which  partly soluble
                       is       caustic potash    in
                                                  from these                     :
                                                                                                facts

                               Analysis of Birdlime.
   facts we should be led to conclude,               that the ashes contain,
   besides     the salts     soluble in water,      a quantity    of the  carbo
   nates   of lime     and alumine,      with a little iron.
      Water has        very little action upon birdlime.           When raised
   to boiling, the matter does not completely melt; it acquires
   rather more fluidity, but resumes its former consistence by
   cooling.        The water has no colour ; its taste is nauseous,
   and then bitter       :  it reddens the tincture      of turnsole.     When
   evaporated to the consistence of syrup it becomes coloured,
   and assumes a mucilaginous appearance.                    The admixture of
   alcohol separates this matter.
      Water, therefore, only dissolves a mucilaginous substance,
   and  a  little extractive matter.
      Caustic potash, on the other hand, has a very different
   action.       Its concentrated solution immediately forms with
  birdlime a whitish magma, which becomes brown by eva
   poration     :  there is at the same time a disengagement             of am
  monia.
      The compound formed             is less viscid   :  it acquires  a greater
   hardness by exposure to the air :             its odour and taste are si
   milar to those of soap.
      It is completely soluble in alcohol,             with the exception of
  a few vegetable          remains.      These solutions become muddy1
  on the addition         of the strong acids, and exhibit the other
  phenomena           which    are observed in the solutions of soap.
     The weaker acids soften birdlime, and partly dissolve it •.
  but when concentrated they act in a different manner. Sul
  phuric acid blackens and chars it: if powdered lime be
  added so as to form a             thick magma,         a disengagement       of
  acetic acid and          ammonia takes place : there is no doubt
  that, besides the free acetic            acid contained in the birdlime,
  a new quantity is formed by the action                     of  the  sulphuric
  acid.
     The nitric       acid has little action in the cold upon fhe sub
  stance under examination            ; but   if  the  temperature     be raised
  it  becomes yellow, melts, and as the evaporation proceeds
  the matter swells considerably, and a hard brittle mass re-
. mains.        When submitted a second time to the action of the
  nitric acid,      a               effected,   and a part    of this substance
                      solutions
                                        I  4                                   i9

   136                       Analysis of Birdlime.
  is converted      into the malic and oxalic acids.       By. continuing
  the evaporation we obtain a yellow and very friable matter,
  which softens        between     the fingers   like wax, possessing       at
  the same time a degree of elasticity, and melts with               a  gentle
  heat.
     Potash combines with this matter, changes its yellow co
  lour to a brown, and forms with it a true soap.
     Alcohol dissolves it in part; forming a yellow solution,
-
  which loses its transparency on the addition of water.
     If the    alcohol be evaporated to dryness, a yellow substance
  remains, which has no longer a greasy appearance, and dif
  fuses an agreeable odour when burnt.
     Muriatic acid has no action on birdlime in the cold, but,
  when heated, blackens it.
     Oxymuriatic acid, on the other hand, has a very different
  and more powerful action on this substance.                   On passing
  the gas through water containing liquefied birdlime, or by
  shaking it in a flask along with very strong acid, we observe
  the following phenomena : — the birdlime speedily loses its
  colour, becoming white; it is now no longer viscid, and
  separates into hard compact masses, which contain within
  them   a    portion of the substance unaltered. This incom
  plete oxygenation may be ascribed, with great probability,
  to the difficulty of preserving the birdlime liquid in hot wa
  ter, and the consequent obstacle to the action of the acid
  beyond the external         layer.
     The    characters      of  oxygenated     birdlime are  :  1st,   It may
  be readily reduced to powder : 2d, It is insoluble in water
  even when heated : 3d, It refuses to melt at an elevated tem
  perature    :  4th,   It  does not become       yellow,  or form resin,
  when subjected         to the action   of the nitric acid.
     The   acetous acid       softens  birdlime, and dissolves a certain
  portion of it      : the solution has     a yellow colour and a nau
  seous taste     :   with the  carbonate    of potash it lets fall no pre
  cipitate  :   when evaporated it yields a matter which has the
  properties of a resin, but cannot be reduced to a state of
  complete dryness.
     Some of the metallic            oxides are readily reduced         when
  heated   with birdliinc.
                                                                          The

                    .  Analysis of Birdlime.                   137
   The semi-vitreous oxide of lead acquires a gray colour,
dissolves, and forms a kind of plaster with this substance.
    Boiling alcohol, of forty degrees strength, dissolves bird
lime : the solution is clear, transparent, and of a yellow co
lour, but as it cools it becomes muddy.
    By the filter we can separate from the solution a yellow
matter which softens more readily than entire birdlime, and
which melts with a gentle heat ; diffusing an odour very si
milar to that of wax, which indeed it resembles in all its
characters.
    The filtered liquor    is bitter,  nauseous, and acid ; it lets
fall a precipitate by water, and leaves on evaporation a sub
stance similar to resin.
    Sulphuric ether may be regarded as the true solvent of
birdlime   : it  acts  upon this substance readily, divides, and
in the end dissolves it almost entirely, leaving a little vege
table matter.      The liquor assumes a greenish yellow colour,
and reddens strongly the tincture of turnsole.        By the addi
tion of a small quaniity of water it beconfes muddy, and the
ether rises to the surface; but if the water be added in suf
ficient quantity to dissolve the ether, a layer of oil exactly
similar to the oil of linseed forms on the surface . with the
semi-vitreous oxide of lead this last forms a plaster.
    The ethereal solution yields, by evaporation, a yellow
substance, which is greasy and soft like wax.
                              Conclusion.
    From what      has been now stated it must be very apparent
that little   analog}- exists between birdlime and glutinous
matter.
    A simple    recapitulation will suffice to point out the proper
 place which this substance ought to occupy among the pro
ducts of vegetables.
    Birdlime is viscid and elastic : it dries slightly by expo
sure to the air, and becomes        brown, but never acquires the
 brittleness and unalterable properties of glue.
    It melts in the fire, inflames, swells up, and burns with
 a bright flame ; but does not diffuse that animal odour which
 gluten is observed to do.
                                                             Water

                             On a new Varnish                   for   Wood.
      Water            does not dissolve birdlime, but merely take* up the
 mucilage, extractive matter, and acetic acid, which this sub
 stance contains.
     Alkalies dissolve                 it,   and when concentrated
                                                    they convert
it   into  true soap.
             a
     Weak acids soften, and in part dissolve birdlime.
     The concentrated sulphuric acid blackens and chars it.
     Nitric                           yellow colour, and con-
                   acid communicates to                   it a
yerts    partly into the oxalic and malic acid*, and partly into
           it
 resin and wax.
     TJje oxymuriatic acid                    renders      it   white aod solid, forming
oxygenated               birdlime.             ,
     Alcohol            has little action on birdlime                 ;   it   merely dissolves
the resin and takes up the acid.
     Lastly, Sulphuric ether dissolves     entirely.             it
     Birdlime, therefore, differs from glue in the following                                     par
ticulars     :
                  contains                         of free
          It It
     1.                         a   quantity                    acetous acid.
     2.           has very little        of   an animal nature.
     3. Both mucilage and extractive matter may he obtained
from it.
   4. By the action of the nitric acid                             it   yields   a   large quan
tity of resin.
     5.   It      is   soluble    in   ether.
     XXITI.            On   a    new Varnish             for    Wood.      By      M. PAR-
                                             MENTIER*.
J.HE apothecary of the French military hospital at G£nes,
M. Bompoix, has sent me some coffee-cups, the chief merit
of which               appeared at first to arise from -their lightness,                         but
afterwards         I     discovered          that they were             still far superior on
account           of the varnish which                   covered      them.      This varnish
enjoys     a      great reputation,                         of
                                               and the composition kept                it   is
a    profound            secret     in that country;  therefore charged
                                                                   I
M.  Bompoix               to use every exertion to discover the recipe
from which
                        it
                        is   made   and he at last obtained
                                        ;                        means            it   by
of   one    of his pupils, whose intimacy with the                               master     of the
                                 From Annales      tit   Chimie, tome Ivi.
                            •
                                                                                 manufactory

                         On a new Varnish               for   Wood.                        130
manufactory procured him the following recipe, and an ar
ticle was produced by the use of it equal in quality to the
original :
   Take of linseed oil one pound and a half.
           Amber, one pound.
                  Pulverized litharge, five ounces.
                  Pulverized minium (red lead) five ounces.
                  Pulverized white lead, five ounces.
   Boil the linseed oil in an unglazed vessel ; make a bag of
linen in which the litharge, minium, and white lead may be
                              with its contents, in the vessel
                                     it it,
contained ; and suspend                                                                         ;
taking care not to allow    to touch the bottom.  Continue
the ebullition until the oil begins to become brown    then                        ;
take out the bag with its ingredients and continue to boil
the oil, adding    clove of clean garlic and when this
                          a                                    ;                                it
dried up put in another, and so on to the number of six or
seven.
   Then melt the amber in an unglazed earthen vessel ia
the following manner, and when melted pour    into the                        it
prepared linseed oil.
                         Manner      of melting the Amber.
     Take       about    two ounces of the linseed                      oil and add        it   to
the amber,            and facilitate its melting              by
                                                         strong fire
                                                                   a  when         :
it   is   melted mix      it   with the rest of the linseed oil and boil the
whole two minutes              ;   then removeand strain itthrough           it                 a
fine linen cloth         ;   and when    cold put
                                              it    into
                                                   is     bottle and
                                                                   it        a
stop      it   well, in order to prevent   from drying up.
                                                    it
                                 Manner        of   using it.
  Take the article which you want to varmsh, and polish                                         it
well before applying the varnish, which  to be done in the         is
following manner:
   Take lamp black, the varnish thus prepared, and a little
essence  of turpentine; mix them together, and with  pencil                        a
lay   coating upon the piece which
      a                              to be varnished whenis                        ;
that coat    dry lay on others to the number of four
                 is                                    and                             ;
when these are dry also, place the article                              in
                                                                         a   stove or fur
                                                                                       nace,

               Effects of Heat modified           ly Compression.
 nace, in order to dry it entirely, and afterwards polish it with
  powdered pumice-stone and Tripoli.
   Manner of preparing          the    Article which     is to  le varnished.
     It  is necessary   to make use        of walnut-tree, ash, or cherry-
 tree wood, because these woods are porous,                   and when they
 are    perfectly dry they      will turn      better   in  the lathe;     when
 the article is shaped to your liking you must put it into a
 stove to dry,     after which work it and polish it as if it was to
be completely finished, then apply the varnish                 in  the manner
above described.
     If it is wanted to give          the dish a red colour, a little       mi
nium, or rather cinnabar,            may be put into the varnish ; and
the same may be done with any other colour you wish to
give to the article varnished.
XXIV.        Account     of  a Series     of Experiments, showing the
    Effects of Compression          in modifying the Action of Heal.
    By Sir JAMES HALL,             Bac-t.   F.R.S. Edin*
I. Antient      Revolutions     of the Mineral Kingdom. — Vain At
    tempts to explain them.         — Dependence
                                                        of Geology on Che
    mistry. — Importance of the Carbonate of Lime. — Dr.
    Slack-s Discovery of Carbonic Acid subverted the former
    Theories depending on Fire, but gave Birth to that of Dr.
    Hutton. — Progress of the Author-s Ideas with regard to
    tliat Theory. — Experiments with Heat and Compression,
    suggested to Dr. Hutton in 1790. — Undertaken ly the
    Author in     1798.  — Speculations on         which his Hopes      of Suc
    cess were   founded.
WHOEVER            has    attended      to  the structure      of rocks and
mountains, must be convinced that our globe has not always
existed in its present        state ; but that every        part  of its mass,
so far at least    as  our observations reach, has been               agitated
and subverted      by the most violent revolutions.
        • From Transactions
                             of the  Royal Society of Edinburgh, voL vii.
                                                                          Facts

                Effects   of Heal modified ly       Compression.           141
     Facts leading to such striking conclusions, however imper
fectly observed, could not fail to awaken curiosity, and give
rise to a desire       of tracing the history,        and  of investigating
the causes,        of such stupendous       events ; and various attempts
were made          in this way, but with little success l for, while
discoveries of the utmost importance and accuracy were
made in astronomy and natural philosophy, the systems
produced by the geologists were so fanciful and puerile,                      as
scarcely to deserve a serious refutation.
     One principal cause of this failure seems to have Iain in
 the very imperfect state of chemistry, which has only of
 late years begun to deserve the name of a science.                     While
 chemistry was in its infancy, it                    was impossible that
 geology should make any progress                   ; since several     of the
 most important circumstances to be accounted for by this
 latter science are admitted on all hands to depend upon prin
 ciples of the former.            The consolidation of loose sand into
  strata    of solid rock      ; the    crystalline   arrangement of sub
  stances accompanying            those strata, and      blended with them
 in various        modes ; are circumstances of a chemical nature,
  -which all those who have attempted to frame theories of the
  earth have endeavoured by chemical reasonings to reconcile
  to their hypotheses.
      Fire    and water, the only agents in nature by which stony
   substances       are produced,      under our observation, were em
   ployed by contending sects of geologists to explain all the
   phaenomena of the mineral kingdom.
      But the known properties of water are quite repugnant to
   the belief of its universal influence, since a very great pro
   portion of the substances under consideration are insoluble,
   or nearly so, in that fluid ; and since, if they were all ex
   tremely soluble, the quantity of water which is known to
   exist, or that could possibly exist, in our planet, would be
   far too small to accomplish the office assigned to it in the
   Neptunian theory*. On the other hand, the known pro
   perties    of  fire are no less inadequate       to the purpose ; for va
   rious substances which frequently occur in the mineral king-
      • Illustration: of the Huttonian   Theory, by Mr. Professor Playfair, 430,
                                                                            dorti,

   143        Effects  of Heat modified ly      Compression.
  dom, seem, by their presence, to preclude its supposed
  agency ; since experiment shows, that, in our fires, they arc
  totally changed or destroyed.
     Under such circumstances the advocates of either element
 were enabled, very successfully, to refute the opinions of
 their adversaries, though they could but feebly defend their
 own : and owing perhaps to this mutual power of attack,
 and for want of any alternative to which the opinions of
 men could lean, both systems maintained a certain degree of
 credit ; and writers on geology indulged themselves, with a
  sort of impunity, in a style of unphilosophica] reasoning
 which would not have been tolerated in other sciences.
     Of  all mineral substances       the carbonate of lime is un
 questionably the most important in a general view.                  As
 limestone    or  marble it constitutes    a  very considerable part of
 the solid mass of many countries, and in the form of veins
 and nodules of spar pervades every species of stone. Its
 history is thus interwoven in such a manner with that of the
mineral kingdom at large, that the fate of any geological
theory must very much depend            upon its successful applica
tion to the various conditions         of this substance.      But till
Dr. Black, by his discovery of carbonic acid, explained the
chemical nature of the carbonate, no rational theory could
be formed     of the chemical revolutions which it       has undoubt
edly undergone.
    This discovery was in      the first instance hostile to (he sup
posed    action of fire  ; for the decomposition of limestone by
fire in every common kiln being thus proved, it seemed ab
surd to ascribe to that same agent the formation of lime
stone, or    of any   mass containing     it.   .
    The contemplation of this difficulty           led Dr. Hutton    to
view the action     of fire in  a manner peculiar to himself,      and
thus to form a geological theory, by which, in my opinion,
be has furnished the world with the true solution of one of
the most interesting problems that has ever engaged                 the
attention of men of science.
    He supposed,
    I. That heat     has   acted, at some remote period,         on all
rocks.
                                                             II.  That

          ,
             Effects yf Heat   modified  ly  Compression.       143
    II.  That during the action of      heat all these rocks  (even
sueh    as  now appear at the surface) lay covered by a superin
cumbent mass, of great weight and strength.
    III. That in consequence of the combined action of heat
and pressure, effects were produced different from those of
heat on common occasions ; in particular, that the carbonate
of lime was reduced to a state of fusion, more or less com
plete, without any calcination.
     The essential and .characteristic principle of his theory is
thus comprised in the word compression ; and by one bold
 hypothesis, founded on this principle, he undertook to meet
all the objections to the action of lire, and to account for
 those circumstances in. which minerals are found to differ
 from the usual products of our furnaces.
     This system, however, involves so many suppositions,
 apparently in contradiction to common experience, which
 meet us on the very threshold, that most men have hitherto
 been deterred from the investigation of its principles, and
 only a few individuals have justly appreciated its merits. It
 was long before I belonged to the latter class ; for I must
 own that, on reading Dr. Hutton-s first geological publica
  tion, I was induced to reject his system entirely, and should
  probably have continued still to do so, with the great ma
 jority of    the world, but for my habits of intimacy with the
  author ; the vivacity and perspicuity of whose conversation
  formed a striking contrast to the obscurity of his writings,
  I  was induced by that charm, and by the numerous original
  facts which his system had led him to observe, to listen to
  bis arguments in favour of opinions which I then looked
   upon as visionary.      I thus derived from his conversation the
   same advantage     which the world has lately done from the
   publication    of Mr. Playfair-s Illustrations ; and experienced
   the same influence which is now exerted by that work on the
   minds    of our most eminent men of science.
      After three years of almost daily warfare with Dr. Hutton,
   on the subject of his theory, I began to view his funda
   mental principles with less and less repugnance.        There is a
   period, I believe, in all scientific investigations,    when the
   conjectures of genius    cease to appear extravagant, and when
             4                                                    we

   144         Effects   of Heat   modified   ly Compreiiion.
   vft balance the fertility of a principle, in explaining the
   phenomena of nature, against its improbability as an hypo
  thesis : the partial view which we then obtain of truth is
  perhaps    the   most attractive of any, and          most powerfully
  stimulates the exertions       of an active mind.      The mist which
  obscured some objects dissipates by degrees, and allows
  them to appear in their true colours ; at the same time, a
  distant prospect opens to our view, of scenes unsuspected
  before.
      Entering now seriously into the train of reasoning fol
  lowed by    Dr. Hutton, I conceived that the chemical effects
  ascribed by him to compression, ought, in the first place, to
  be investigated ; for unless some good reason were given us
  for believing that heat would be modified by pressure, in the
 manner alleged, it would avail us little to know that they
 had acted together.         He   rested his belief  of this influence on
 analogy, and on       the satisfactory solution of all the pheno
 mena furnished by this supposition.                It occurred to me,
 however, that this principle          was,  susceptible of being esta
 blished in    a  direct manner by experiment, and I urged him
 to make the attempt ; but he always rejected this proposal,
 on account of the immensity of the natural agents, whose
 operations he supposed to lie far beyond the reach of our
 imitation ; and he seemed to imagine that any such attempt
 must undoubtedly fail, and thus throw discredit on opinions
 already    sufficiently    established,   as he  conceived, on other
 principles.      I  was   far, however, from being convinced          by
these arguments ; for, without being able to prove that any
artificial compression to which we could expose the car
bonate would effectually prevent its calcination in our fires,
I   maintained, that we had as little proof of the contrary,
and that the application of a moderate force might possibly
perform all that was hypothetically assumed in the Huttonian
theory.       On the other hand, I considered myself as bound
in practice to pay deference to his opinion, in a field which
he had already so nobly occupied, and abstained, during
the remainder of his life, from the prosecution of some ex
periments with compression which I had begun in 1 790.
     In 1 7Q8   I resumed     the subject with eagerness,      being still
                                                                       of

               Effects of Heat    modified  ly Compression.         145
of opinion that the chemical law which forms the basis of
the Huttonian theory ought, in the first place, to be investi
gated experimentally ; all my subsequent reflections and
observations having tended to confirm my idea of the im
portance of this pursuit, without in any degree rendering me
more apprehensive as to the result.
     In the arrangement of the following paper I shall first
 confine myself to the investigation of the chemical effects of
heat and compression, reserving to the concluding part the
application of my results to geology.           I shall then appeal to
the volcanos, and shall endeavour to vindicate the laws of
 action assumed in the Huttonian theory, by showing that
 lavas,    previous to their eruptions, are subject to similar
 laws ;    and that the volcanos, by their subterranean             and
 submarine exertions, must produce, in our times, results
similar to those ascribed, in that theory, to the former action
 of fire.
     In comparing      the Huttonian     operations with those of the
 Volcanos, I shall avail myself of Some facts, brought to
 light in the course of the following investigations, by "which
 ft precise    limit is assigned to the intensity of the heat, and
 to the force of compression, required to fulfil the condi
 tions of Dr. Mutton-s hypothesis : for according to him the
 pouter    of those agents was very great, but quite indefinite;
 it was therefore impossible to compare their supposed effects
 in any precise manner with the phenomena of nature.
     My attention     was    almost exclusively confined to the car
  bonate of lime, about which I reasoned as follows : the
  carbonic acid, when uncombined with any other substance,
  exists naturally in a gaseous form at the common tempera
  ture of our atmosphere ; but when in union with lime, it»
  volatility is repressed, in that same temperature, by the che
  mical force of the earthy substance which retains it in a
  solid form.      When     the temperature is raised     to a full red-
  heat,   the acid   acquires   a volatility by which that force is
  overcome, it escapes from the lime, and assumes its gaseous
  form.      It is evident, that were the attractive force of the
  lime increased, or the volatility of the acid diminished by
      Vol.  24.  No. 04. March     1806.       K                     any

  146        Effects    of Heal    modified   ly Compression.
  any means, the tompound would be enabled to bear &
  higher heat without decomposition than it can in the present
  state of things.         Now pressure must produce an effect of
 this kind    ;  for when     a mechanical force opposes the expan
  sion of the acid, its volatility must, to a certain degree, be
  diminished.        Under    pressure,    then,  the carbonate    may be
 expected to remain unchanged in a heat by which, in the
 open air, it would have been calcined.                  But experiment
 alone can teach us what compressing force is requisite to
 enable it to resist any given elevation of temperature, and
 what is to be the result of such an operation.              Some of the
 compounds of lime with acids are fusible, others refrac
 tory ; the carbonate, when constrained by pressure to en
 dure   a proper heat, may be as fusible as the muriate.
     One circumstance, derived from the Huttonian theory,
 induced me to hope that the carbonate was easily fusible,
 and indicated a precise point under which that fusion ought
 to he expected.          Nothing is more common than to meet
with nodules of calcareous spar inclosed in whinstone ; and
 we suppose, according to the Huttonian theory, that the
whin and      the    spar had been      liquid together, the two fluids
 keeping separate       like oil   and    water. It is natural, at the
junction of      these two, to look for indications       of their relative
 fusibilities ; and we find,       accordingly,     that the termination
 of  the spar     is generally globular and smooth ; which seems
to prove that, when the whin became solid, the spar was
 still in a liquid state ; for had the spar congealed first, the
 tendency which it shows, on all occasions of freedom, to
 shoot out into prominent crystals, would have made it dart
into the liquid whin, according to the peculiar forms of its
crystallization, as has happened with the various substances
 contained      in    whin, much more refractory than itself,
 namely, augitc, felspar, &c., all of which having congealed
 in the liquid whin, have assumed their peculiar forms with
perfect regularity.         From this I concluded, that when the
whin congealed, which must have happened about 28° or
3()° of Wedgwood,            the spar was still liquid.        I therefore
expected,      if I could compel      the carbonate     to bear a heat   of
                                                                       28°

                    Effects      of Heat modified ly           Compression.            147
£6° without decomposition, that it would enter into fusion.
The sequel will show that this conjecture was not without
foundation.
      I
     shall now enter upon the description of those experi
ments, the result of which I had the honour to lay before
this society on the 30th of August last (1804) ; fully aware
how difficult it             is,
                    in giving an account of above five hun
dred  experiments, all tending to one point, but differing
much from each other in various particulars, to steer be
tween the opposite faults of prolixity and barrenness. My
object shall be to describe, as shortly as possible, all
the methods followed, so as to enable any chemist to repeat
the experiments   and to dwell particularly on such cir
                             ;
cumstances only as seem to lead to conclusions of im
portance.
   The result being already known, consider the account    I                           I
am about to give  of the execution of these experiments, as
addressed to those who take      particular interest in the pro
                                               a
gress of chemical operations   — in the eyes of such gentlemen
                                              :
I trust that none of the details into which     must enter will   I
appear superfluous.
II.               Execution upon vkich the following Expe
          Principle      of
    riments were conducted. — Experiments n.itk Gun-Barrels
    filled with          baked   Clay, and welded at the Muzzle. — Me
      thod u-itli the         Fusible Metal. — Remarkaile Effects   its             of
      Expansion. — Necessity                  of   introducing    Air. — Results       ob
      tained.
      When  first undertook to make experiments with heat
                I
acting under   compression,   employed myself in contriving
                                              I
various devices of screws, of bolts, and of lids, so adjusted,
I   hoped,          as   to confine all elastic            substances   ;   and   perhaps
some       of   them might           have      answered.         ButI       laid aside all
such devices, in favour of one which                              occurred to me in
January    793  1which,  ;  its simplicity, was of easy appli
                                         by
cation    all cases, and accomplished all that could be done
            in
 by any device, since     secured perfect strength and tight
                                    it
ness to the utmost that the vessels employed could bear,
whether formed of metallic or earthy substance.                               The   device
                                              K    2   .                          depends

148          Effects  of Heat modified ly       Compression.
depends upon the        following     general view   :   If we  take a hol
low    tube or barrel    (AD,    fig.  1. Plate  IV.)   closed at one end
and open at the other,         of one foot or more in length,           it is
evident, that by introducing one end into a furnace, we can
apply to it as great heat as art can produce, while the other
end is kept cool, or, if necessary, exposed to extreme cold.
If then    the substance     which we mean to subject to the com
bined action of heat and pressure be introduced into the
breech or closed end of the barrel (CD), and if the middle
part be filled with some refractory substance,              leaving a small
empty space at the muzzle (AB),               we can apply heat to the
muzzle, while the breech containing the subject of experi
ment is kept cool, and thus close the barrel by any of the
numerous modes which heat affords, from the welding of
iron    to the melting     of sealing-wax.       Things being then        re
versed,     and the breech     put into the furnace, a heat          of any
required intensity may be applied to the subject                 of experi
ment, now in a state of constraint.
    My first application of this scheme was carried on with a
common gun-barrel, cut off at the touch-hole, and welded
Very strongly at the breech by means of a plug of iron. Into
it I introduced the carbonate, previously rammed into a
cartridge of paper or pasteboard, in order to protect it from
the iron, by which,          in some former trials, the subject of
experiment had been contaminated throughout during the
 action ctf heat.      I then rammed the rest of the barrel full oi
 pounded clay, previously baked in a strong heat, and I had
 the muzzle closed, like the breech, by a plug of iron welded
 upon it in a common forge ; the rest of the barrel being
 kept cold during        this operation by means of wet cloths.
 The    breech   of  the barrel    was then introduced horizontally
 into   a common muffle, heated to about 25° of Wedgwood.
 To   the muzzle a rope was         fixed   in such    a  manner that the
 barrel could be withdrawn            without danger from ait explo
 sion*.      I likewise, about this time,         closed the muzzle of
                                                                          the
    * On one occasion the importance of this precaution was strongly felt.
 Tlaving inadvertently introduced a considerable quantity of moisture into a
 welded barrel, an eiplosion twk pl.ice, before the heat had risen to redness,
                                                                           by

,             Effects        of Heat modlfed ly                     Compression.             149
the barrel by means of a plug fixed by solder only ; which
method had this peculiar advantage, that I could shut and
open the barrel without having recourse to a workman.    In
these trials, though many barrels yielded to the expansive
force, others resisted  and afforded some results that were
                                  it,
in the highest degree encouraging, and even satisfactory,
            have^been obtained with certainty on repetition
could they
of the process. In many of them chalk, or common lime
stone previously pulverised, was agglutinated into   steny                            a
mass, which required   smart blow of
                                  a   hammer to break           a                             it,
and felt under the knife like   common limestone   aat the                            ;
same time the substance, when thrown into nitric acid, dis
solved entirely with violent effervescence.
    In one of   these experiments, owing to the action of heat
 on the cartridge of paper, the baked clay, which had been
"used to fill the barrel, was stained black throughout, to the
distance    of two-thirds of              the length            of    the barrel from        its
breech.      This circumstance                isof importance,    showing,       by
that though all     is   tight at the          muzzle, protrusion may take
                                                                a
place along the barrel,               greatly to the detriment of complete
compression     :   and,          at the   same time,       illustrates what
                                                                      it
has happened  occasionally in nature, where the bituminous
matter seems to have been driven     superior local heat from
                                                           by
one part of coaly bed, though retained in others, under the
               a
same compression     the bitumen so driven off being found,
                             ;
in other cases,         to    pervade and tinge beds                       of    slate and   of
sandstone.
    I   was employed         in   this pursuit             in   spring     1   80O,   when an
event of importance interrupted my experiments for about                                      a
year. But resumed them
             I                 March 1801, with many new
                                              in
by which part of the barrel was spread out to     flat pUte, and the furnace
                                                                a
was blown to pieces.   Dr. Kennedy, who happened to be present on this
occasion, observed, that notwithstanding this accident, the time might come
when we should employ water in these experiments to assist the force of
compression.  I   have since made great use of this valuable suggestion: but he
Marccly  lived, alas! to sec its application  fur my first success in this way
                                                       ;
took place during his last illness. — have been eiposetl to no risk hi any other
                                          I
experiment with iron barrels        matters being so arranged that the strnin
                                      ;
against them has only commenced in        red heat, in which the metal has been
                                              a
10 far softened as to yield by laceration like  piece of leather,
                                                       a
                                           K   3                                          plans

150          Effects   of Heat     modified  ly  Compression,
plans of execution, and with considerable addition to my
apparatus.
    In the course of my first trials,           the  following mode of
execution had occurred to me, which               I now began to put in
practice.      It is well known to chemists that a certain com
position of different metals* produces a substance so fusible
as to melt    in the heat of boiling-<water.            I conceived that
great advantage,        both in point of accuracy and dispatch,
might    be gained in these         experiments, by substituting this
metal for the baked clay above mentioned : that after intro
ducing the carbonate into the breech of the barrel, the fusi
ble metal, in a liquid state, might be poured in so as to fill
the barrel to its brim : that when the metal had cooled and
become solid, the breech            might,    as  before,   be introduced
into a muffle, and exposed to any required heat, while the
muzzle was carefully kept cold. In this manner, no part of
the fusible metal being melted but what lay at the breech,
the rest, continuing in a solid state, would effectually COI»T
fine the carbonic acid        :  that after the action of strong heat
had ceased, and after           all had been allowed to cool com
pletely, the fusible metal might be removed entirely from
the barrel, by means of a heat little above that of boilingr
water, and far too low to occasion any decomposition of the
carbonate     by calcination, though acting upon it in freedom ;
and then that the subject of experiment might as before be
taken out of the barrel.
    This scheme, with various modifications and additions
which practice has        suggested,     forms the basis of most of the
 following methods.
     In the first trial a striking phaenomenon           occurred, which
 gave   rise   to   the  most important         of these modifications.
 Having filled      a  gun-barrel with the fusible metal without
 any carbonate, and having placed the breech in a muffle, I
 was surprised to see, as the heat approached to redness, the
 liquid metal exuding through the iron in innumerable mi
nute drops dispersed al| round the barrel. As the heat ad
vanced this exudation increased, till at last the metal flowed
 out in continued streams, and the barrel was quite destroyed.
           * Eight parts of bismuth, five of lead, and three of tin.
                                                                       On

                 Effects  of Heat    modified by Compression.                 151
  On     several occasions      of  the same       kind, the fusible metal,
  being forced through some very minute aperture in the
  barrel, spouted from it to the distance of several yards^ de
  positing upon any substance opposed to the stream a beau
  tiful assemblage of fine wire exactly in the form of wool.
  I   immediately understood that the phaenomenon                     was pro
  duced      by the superior expansion of the liquid over the solid
  metal, in consequence of which the fusible metal was driven
  through the iron as water was driven through silver* by me
  chanical percussion in the Florentine experiment.                       It oc
 curred to me that this might be prevented by confining along
 with      the fusible metal      a small quantity       of air, which, by
 yielding a little to the expansion of the liquid, would save
 the barrel.       This remedy was found to answer completely,
  and was applied in all the experiments made at this timef.
       I now proposed, in order to keep the carbonate clean, to
 inclose it in      a small vessel    ; and to     obviate   the difficulty     of
 removing the result at the conclusion                of  the experiment,        I
 further proposed to connect that vessel with an iron ramrod,
     *
        Essays of Natural Experiments made in the Academic del Cimento,
 translated by Waller, London, 1684, page 117. The same in Musschen.
 broek's Latin translation, Lugd. Bat. 1731. p 63.
     f I found it a matter of much difficulty to ascertain the proper quantity
 of air which ought to be thus inclosed. When the quantity was too great,
 the result was injured by diminution of elasticity, as 1 shall have occasion
 fully to show hereafter. When too small, or when by any accident the whole
  of this included air was allowed to escape, the barrel was destroyed.
     I hoped to ascertain the bulk of air necessary to give liberty to the expan
 sion of the liquid metal, by measuring the actual quantity expelled by known
 heats from an open barrel filled with it.    But I was surprised to find that the
 quantity thus discharged exceeded in bulk that of the air which, in the same
 heats,   I had confined along with the carbonate and fusible metal in many
 successful experiments.    As the expansion of the liquid does not seem capable
 of  sensible diminution by an opposing force, this fact can only be accounted
 for by a distention of the barrel.    In these experiments then the expansive
 force of the carbonic acid, of the included air, and of the fusible metal,
 acted in combination against the barrel, and were yielded to in part by the .
 distension of the barrel, and by the condensation of the included air.       My
pbject was to increase the force of this mutual action, by diminishing         the
quantity of air, and by other devices to be mentioned hereafter. Where so
many forces were concerned, the laws of whose variations were unknown,
much precision could not be expected, nor is it wonderful that, in attempting
to carry the compressing force to the utmost, I should have destroyed barrels
innumerable,
                                       K  4                               longer

   152        Effects    of Heat   modified by Compression.
  longer than the barrel, by which it could be introduced o*
  withdrawn at pleasure.
      A  small tube of glass*, or of Reaumur's porcelain, about
  a quarter of an inch in diameter, and one or two inches in
  length (fig. 2.     A),  was   half filled with pounded         carbonate   of
  lime, rammed         as  hard  as   possible ; the      other half of the
  tube being filled with pounded silex, or with whatever oc
  curred as most likely to prevent the intrusion of the fusible
  metal in its liquid and penetrating state.               This tube so filled
  was placed in      a  frame or cradle of iron       (dfk h,    figs. 3, 4, 5,
  and 6,) fixed to the end (m) of a ramrod (mn).                    The cradle
 was from six to three inches in length, and as much in dia
  meter   as a   gun-barrel would admit with ease. It was com
  posed of two circular plates of iron {def g and h ik I, seen
  edgewise in the figures), placed at right angles to the ram
 rod, one of these plates {defii) being fixed to it by the
  centre (m).       These "plates were connected together by four
 ribs or flattened wires of iron (dh, ei,fk, and gl), which
 formed the cradle into which the tube (A), containing the
 carbonate, was introduced by thrusting the adjacent rib?
  asunder.       Along with the tube just mentioned, was intro
 duced    another tube (B) of iron or porcelain, filled only with
 air.    Likewise, in       the cradle, a pyrometer f piece (C) was
    * I have .since constantly used tubes of common porcelain finding glass
 much too fusible for this purpose.
    f The pyrometer.pieces used in these experiments were made under my own
 eye.   Necessity compelled me to undertake this laborious and difficult work,
 in which I have already so far succeeded as to obtain a set of pieces which,
though far from complete, answer my purpose tolerably well. I had lately
an opportunity of comparing my set with that of Mr. Wedgwood, at various
temperatures, in furnaces of great size and steadiness.    The result has proved
that mv pieces agree as well with each other as his, though with my set each
temperature is indicated by a different degree of the scale.    I have thus been
enabled to construct a table, by which my .observations have been corrected,
so that the  temperatures mentioned in this paper arc such as would         have
been indicated    by Mr. Wedgwood's pieces.       By Mr. Wedgwood's pieces, I
mean those of the only set which has been sold to the public, and by which
the melting heal of pure s'lver is indicated at the 2i2d degree. I am well aware
that the late    Mr. Wedgwood, in his Table of Fusibilities, has stated that
fusion as taking place at the i>8th degree ; but I am convinced that his ob
servations must have been made with some set different from that which was
afterwards sold.
                                                                         placed;

             Effects   of Heat modified ly           Compression.                 153
placed     in contact with (A) the tube containing  the car
bonate.   These articles generally occupied the whole cradle ;
when any space remained it was filled up by a piece of chalk
dressed for the purpose. (Fig. 4, represents the cradle filled,
as just described.)
   Things being thus prepared, the gun -barrel, placed erect
with Us muzzle upwards, was half filled with the liquid
fusible metal.    The cradle was then introduced into the
barrel, and plunged to the bottom of the liquid, so that the
carbonate was placed very near the breech (as represented in
fig. 5, the fusible metal standing at o). The air-tube (B)
being placed so as to enter the liquid with Its muzzle down
wards, retained great part of the air it originally contained,
though some of it might be driven off by the heat, so as to
escape through the liquid.    The metal being now allowed
to cool, and to fix round the cradle and                    ramrod,          the    air
remaining in the air-tube was effectually confined, and all
was held fast.   The barrel being then filled to the brim with
fusible metal, the apparatus was ready for the application of
heat to the breech (as shown in   6).       fig
   In the experiments made at this time,                  I   used      a       square
brick furnace (figs.        7     and 8), having     a   muffle   (r   .\)   travers
ing   it   horizontally  open at both ends. This muffie
                             and
being supported         middle
                       in   the            by
                                       very slender prop, was
                                                 a
exposed to fire from below, <as. well as all round.  The bar
rel was placed in the muffle, with its breech in the hottest
part, and the end next the muzzle projecting beyond the
furnace,     and surrounded          with cloths which        were drenched
with water from time                to   time.       (This arrangement                 is
shown in fig.      7•)      In this situation         the fusible metal sur
rounding the cradle being melted, the air contained in the
air-tube would of course seek the highest position, and
its first place in the air-tube would be occupied
                                                                        iv by
                                                                                fusible
metal.     (In fig. G., the new position of the air                             shown
     At   the conclusion     of the experiment the metal was gene
rally removed       by   placing the barrel in the transverse muffle,
with its muzzle pointing     little downwards, and so that the
                                     a
heat was applied first to the muzzle, and thep to the rest of
                                                                                    the

    154          Effects    of Heat     modified   ly  Compression.
   the barrel    in succession. (This operation is shown in fig. 8.)
  In    some     of the first of these experiments I loosened the
  cradle by plunging the barrel into heated brine,                    or  a strong
  solution       of muriate of lime, which last hears a tempe
  rature of 250° of Fahrenheit before it boils.                    For this pur
  pose I used a pan three inches in diameter, and three feet
  deep, having a flat bason at top to receive the liquid when it
  boiled over. The method answered, but was troublesome,
  and    I laid it   aside.      I have had occasion lately, however, to
  resume      it in    some     experiments in which it was of conse
  quence to open the barrel with the least possible heat *.
      By these methods I made a great number of experiments,
  with results that were highly interesting in that stage of the
 business, though their importance is so much diminished by
 the subsequent progress of the investigation, that I think it
  proper to mention but very few of them.
      On the 31st of March 1801 I rammed forty grains of
 pounded chalk into a tube of green bottle-glass, and placed
 it in the cradle         as above described.           A pyrometer in the
 muffle along with the barrel indicated 33°.                    The barrel was
 exposed to heat during seventeen or eighteen minutes.                         On
 withdrawing the cradle, the carbonate was found in one solid
 mass, which had visibly shrunk in bulk, the space thus left
 within the tube being accurately filled with metal, which
 plated the carbonate all over without                  penetrating it in the
 least, so that the metal was easily removed.                   The weight     was
 reduced from forty to thirty-six grains.                   The substance      was
very hard,        and   resisted    the  knife  better than    any  result  of the
 kind previously obtained ; its fracture was crystalline, bear
ing    a  resemblance to white saline marble              ;  and its thin edges
 had a decided          semitransparency,         a circumstance        first ob
served      in  this   result.
     On    the 3d     of March of        the   same year     I made    a.  similar
    • In many of the following experiments lead was used«in
                                                                      place of the
fusible metal, and often with success ; but I lost many good results in this
way : for the heat required to liquefy the lead, approaches so near to red
ness, that it is difficult   to disengage the cradle without applying a tempei
mturc by which the carbonate is in;ured.          I have found it answer well, to
surround the cradle and a few inches of the rod with fusible metal, and to
fill the rest of  the barrel with lead.
            4                                                      experiment,

           Substance possessing the Properties       of Tanmn.         1 55
experiment, in which a pyrometer-piece was placed within
the barrel, and another in the muffle ; they agreed in indi
cating 23°. The inner tube, which was of Reaumur-s porce
lain, contained eighty grains of pounded chalk.               The carbo
nate    was    found, after the experiment, to      have  lost 3-J- grains.
A thin rim, less than the 20th of an inch in thickness, of
whitish matter,         appeared on the outside       of the   mass.      la
 other respects       the carbonate     was in a very perfect state ; it
 was    of  a   yellowish colour, and had a decided semi-transpa
 rency and saline fracture. But what renders this result of
 the greatest value is, that on breaking the mass a space of
 more than the tenth of an inch square was found to be com
 pletely crystallized, having acquired the rhomboidal fracture
 of   calcareous     spar.   It was white and opake, and presented
 to the view three sets       of parallel plates which are seen under
 three different angles.         This substance, owing to partial cal
 cination and subsequent absorption of moisture, had lost all
  appearance of its remarkable properties in some weeks after
  its production ; but this appearance has since been restored
  by a fresh fracture, and the specimen is now well preserved
  by being hermetically inclosed.
                                [To be continued.]
  XXV. fidditional          Experiments and Remarks on an arti-
     ficial   Substance    which possesses the principal characteristic
      Properties      of Tannin.     By CHARLES HATCH ETT, Esq.
       F.R.S.
                            [Concluded from p. 68.]
                                     §VII,
   jT ROM     the experiments which have been related, it appears,
   that three varieties of the artificial tanning substance may be
   formed, viz. .----
       1st,  That which     is produced by the action       of nitric acid
   upon any carbonaceous substance, whether vegetable,                   ani
   mal, or mineral.
       2dly, That which is formed by distilling nitric acid from
                                                                   common

1 50        Experiments and Remarks on a Sulstancv
common    resin, indigo, dragon-s blood, and various other
substances : and,
   3dly, That which is yielded to alcohol by common resin,
elemi, asa fcetida, camphor, &c., after these bodies have
been for some time previously digested with sulphuric acid.
     Upon   these       products I shall now make a few re
                             three
marks, which      have   I
                        hitherto postponed, in order that the
account of the experiments might not be interrupted.
  The first variety is that which is the most easily formed ;
and from some                 experiments which were purposely made, I
find that )00 grains              of dry vegetabfe charcoal afford 120 of
the tanning substance ; but, as it is extremely difficult com
pletely to expel moisture, or even the whole of the nitric
acid which has been employed*, an allowance of about three
or four grains ought to be made ; so that after this deduction
we may conclude, that 10O grains of vegetable charcoal yield
1 1 6 or 1 1 7 of the dry tanning substance.
   The proportions of the constituent parts of this substance
I have    not       as   yet ascertained      ;   but, from the manner by
which it    is produced, carbou is evidently the base               of   it,   and
is   the predominating essential             ingredient.
     From   §   III.     experiment    F.   it also appears,   that the other
component parts are oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen       for,            ;
when the artificial tanning substance was distilled, ammonia
and carbonic acid  were obtained, exclusive of   very small     a
portion of yellow liquor, which stained the upper part of
                a
the retort, and which, from its tenacity and insolubility in
water and alcohol, appeared to be of an oily nature.
  As   I    had taken            every precaution respecting the charcoal
which    had been employed,           I     was at first induced to consider
the above facts as almost positively demonstrative of the pre
sence of hydrogen  in charcoal    but upon further
                                            ;       reflection,
and upon weighing some of the circumstances which attend
the formation of the artificial tanning substance,    still feel I
on this point very considerable doubt; for have constantly
                                                         I
  • The most effectual method of expelling the nitric acid is, to reduce the
tanning substance to powder, and repeatedly evaporate different portions ot
distilled water from  in glass or porcelain basin.
                         it     a
                                                                    observed,

                  posxessing the Properties   of Tannin.              157
observed, that diluted nitric acid acts upon charcoa more
effectually in the formation of tlie tanning substance than
when it is employed in a concentrated state; and it appears
therefore very probable that hydrogen may have been afforded
by a portion of water decomposed during the process. For>
admitting     that the new compound    (formed by the action of
nitric acid upon charcoal) may possess a certain degree of
affinity for hydrogen, this, lieing exerted simultaneously with
the affinity for oxygen possessed by nitrous gas, may (espe
cially when the last is in a nascent state) effect a decompo
sition of a portion of water, the hydrogen of which would
therefore enter into the composition of the tanning sub
stance, whilst the oxygen would supply thetplace of part of
that which had been taken from the nitric acid.
   Many of  the properties of the tanning substance prepared
 from coal by nitric acid are very remarkable, particularly
those which have-been noticed in § III. experiments F and
G ; for surely it is not a little singular, that this substance
when burned should emit an odour so very similar to ani
mal matter, notwithstanding that the tanning substance had
been prepared from pure vegetable charcoal.  And again, in
 experiment       G, the portion which had not been precipitated
 by solution      of isinglass was, when dried, found to possess
 a strong vegetable odour very analogous to oak bark, al
 though charcoal is inodorous, and isinglass very nearly so.
    But, after all, the most extraordinary properties of this sub*
 stance are certainly those which so nearly approach it to the
 vegetable principle called tannin ; for it perfectly resembles
 this principle by its solubility in water and in alcohol, by
 its action upon gelatine and upon skin, by the effects which
 it produces upon metallic solutions, upon those of the earths,
 and of the alkalis.
    The sulphuric       and muriatic acids also affect     the solutions
 of it   as they do those    of tannin   ; and the only marked         dif
 ference which as yet has been found in the characters            of the
 artificial substance and of tannin        is,
                                      that the former      pro   is
 duced, whilst the varieties of the latter are more or less de
 stroyed     by
           nitric acid. This, for the present at least, must
 draw    a   line of separation    between    them; but we must not
                                                                 forget,

   158            Experiments and Remarks on a Substance
 forget, that even the varieties                          of tannin *         do not accord         in
 the degree of destructibility.
    The second variety of                         the tanning substance                is obtained
 from a great number of      vegetable bodies l such as indigo,
 dragon-s blood, common resin, &c. &c., by digesting and
 distilling them with nitric acid. It is not, therefore, quite
 so readily prepared as that which was first described, and its
 relative quantity, when compared with that of the substance
 employed to produce                   it,   is   less.
   As resin and some                     of the other            bodies        do not afford        it
 until theyhave been repeatedly treated with nitric acid, and
 as during each operation nitrous gas   produced, whilst the    is
 strength of the acid which comes                                over    is     diminished,        it
                                                                                                seems
   • I shall here venture to state some ideas which have occurred to me on
the probable cause and mode of the formation of tannin.
   Mr. Biggin has proved, that similar barks, when taken from trees at dif
ferent seasons, differ as to the quantities of tannin contained in them.—
 (Phil. Trans. 1799, p. 259.)
   Mr. Davy also observes, " that the proportions of the astringent principle*
in barks vary considerably according as their age and size are different."
   " That in every astringent bark the interior white bark             the part            is
                                                             (which
neit to the alburnum) contains the largest quantity of tannin. The propor
tion of extractive matter v generally greatest in the middle or coloured part                       ;
but the epidermis seldom furnishes either tannin or extractive matter."
   Moreover Mr. Davy remarks, " that the white cortical layers are compa-*
ratively most abundant in young trees, and hence their barks contain in the
game weight    larger proportion
                 a                            of tannin than       the   barks of old trees."—
(Phil. Trans. 1803, p. 264.)
  We find, therefore,
   1st,   That   the proportion   of tannin in        the same trees     is   different at different
seasons.
   2dly, That tannin   principally contained in the white cortical layers, or
                         is
interior white bark, which    next to the alburnum or new wood: and,
                                  is
   3dly, That these white cortical layers are comparatively most abundant
in young trees, and that their barks consequently contain in the same weight
more tannin than the barks of old trees.
 I shall not make any remarks on the first of these facts, as     accords with    it
other similar effects,which are the natural consequences of the processes and
periods of vegetation  but the second and third appear to be important
                         -,                                                                        ;
for they prove that tannin    principally formed, or at least deposited, in the
                                  is
interior white bark, which    next to the alburnum or new wood
                                  is                             so that in            ;
the very same part where the successive portions of new wood are to be ela
borated and deposited, we find the principal portion of tannin.
  It   should seem, therefore, that there           ii    an uitimate connection between         the!
                                                                                        formation

                        possessing the Properties            of Tannin.                     159
seems almost evident that this tanning                          substance      is formed
in   consequence             of part of
                            the oxygen of the nitric acid be
coming combined   with  the  hydrogen of the original body,
so as to form water ; and the carbon, being thus in some
measure  denuded, is rendered capable of being gradually
acted upon by the nitric acid in a manner nearly similar to
that which takes place when it has been previously converted
into coal.
   The colour of the precipitates which this tanning sub
stance yields with gelatine is constantly pale or deep yellow,
whilst that             of the precipitates formed by                 the first variety is
always brown ; I am therefore induced to believe that the
different colours of the precipitates produced by the varieties
of tannin depend on the state of their carbon.
     When resin              and the other bodies were treated                     as above
formation of new wood aud the formation of tannin in such vegetables as
(fiord the latter ; and this idea is corroborated when the chemical nature of
these substances         is considered.
     Fromexperiments made on the ligneous substance of vegetables, or the
woody fibre, it appears to be composed of carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and
nitrogen ; but of these its principal and essential ingredient is carbon.
     In like manner carbon is unquestionably the basis and principal ingredient
Of tannin.   Considering, therefore, that both of these substances consist prin*
cipally of carbon ; that tannin is secreted in that part of barks where the
formation and deposition of new wood take place ; and that the quantity of
tannin is the most considerable in young trees, and seems therefore to keep
pace with their more vigorous growth, and consequent rapid formation of
wood; it appears very probable that those vegetables which contain tannin
have the faculty of absorbing more carbon and of the other principles than
are immediately required in the formation of the different proximate vege
table substances, especially the woody fibre: that this excess, by chemical
combination, becomes            tannin, which is secreted      in the white interior bark :
that in this state it is a principle peculiarly fitted to concur by assimilation to
form new wood i that it.is therefore subsequently decomposed at the proper
period, and is employed in the formation of the new wood i that there is not
a continual accumulation           of tannin in      the vegetables   which afford   it,   as
                                                                                                it
                                                                                                is
successively formed in and with the white cortical layers, and successively   is
decomposed-by concurring to form new wood and, lastly, that as the vege
                                                           :
table approaches more nearly to the full maturity of its growth, when wood
is less rapidly and less plentifully formed, so in like manner less tannin    se            is
creted; for, the fabric being nearly completed, fewer materials are required.
     Such   I    am inclined to suspect,   from the facts which have been adduced, to
be the cause and mode by which taimin      formed in oaks and other vegeta
                                                      is
bles       but       make this statement probable conjecture, which may be
                                           only as
                                                                                     '
       ;         I                                   a
lefuted or confirmed by future observations.
                                                                                   described

    1 Go       Experiments and Remarks on a Substance
   described    with nitric acid,           the quantity obtained        of  the tan-*
   ning   substance      was much less than when an equal quantity
   of coal    was employed, or even when these bodies had been
   previously converted into coal in the humid way by sulphuric
   acid.
       The   Cause    of this        seems to be,      that a number        of other
   products are simultaneously formed, all of which require
  more or less of carbon as a constituent ingredient, so that,
  in consequence of the affinities which prevail under the
  existing circumstances, some bodies by treatment with
  nitric acid afford but little, and others none, of the tanning
  substance.
      The   greatest     proportion of this substance              was yielded by
  indigo,    common resin, and stick lac.
      The quantity obtained from              asa fostida and gum ammoniac
  was less*
      Benzoin, balsam of Tolu, balsam of Peru, and dragon-s
 blood, were inferior to the former in this respect ; so that
 the development, or rather production of btnzoic acid*, ap
                                                                              peared
     * The expression " production of benzoic acid" may appear objectionable,
 and I shall therefore take this opportunity so observe, that I much suspect
 the present established opinion respecting the balsams and benzoic acid to be
 erroneous : for the balsams are defined as bodies composed of resin and ben
 zoic acid ; consequently the latter, when obtained in a separata      state, is consi
 dered as an original ingredient or educt.
     I am, however, inclined to     a contrary  opinion ; for I consider the balsams
 as peculiar substances,    which,    although nearly approaching to the nature of
 resins, are nevertheless different in respect to the original combination of
 their elementary principles ; which combination, however, is with much faci
lity modified by various      causes, and especially by a certain increase of tem
 perature, so that a new arrangement of the elementary principles takes pl»cc,
part being formed into resin, and part into benzoic acid.
     Many facts appear more or less to support this opinion ; for whether ben
zoic acid is obtained by simple sublimation, or by merely digesting benzoin
in boiling water, according to Geoffrey-s method, or by the addition of lime,
ae recommended by Schcelc, or           by employing alkalis in a similar manner,
nothing positive    can   be   inferred  from any of these operations to prove that
benzoic acid is obtained as an educt, but rather the contrary, when we re*
fleet on the affinities which are most likely to prevail under the circumstances
of the different processes, and on the variable proportiops of the benzoic
acid; and although benzoic acid has been discovered in the urine of infants,
in that of many i Ju I i .-, and constantly in. that of graminivorous quadrupeds,
                                                                                  such

                                                                                161
                   possessing     the Properties      of Tannin.
peared partly to counteract the formation                  of the tanning sub
stance; but oxalic acid, when formed in any considerable
quantity, seemed absolutely to prevent the formation of this
substance ; for whilst abundance of the former was obtained
from gum arable, tragacanth, manna, and guaiacum, not
any of the latter could be produced.
     Common liquorice appears at first to be an exception; but
from the smallness of the quantity, and the colour of the
precipitate which           it produced with solution of isinglass,                I
am almost convinced that the tanning substance was formed
by the action of the nitric acid on a portion of uncombined
carbon, which, being in a state approaching to coal, is pro
bably the cause of the blackness of the common liquorice.
     As    the formation        of the tanning        substance     has been my
auch    as the camel, the horse, and the cow,       (Sytteme  da Cmmrissanctt Chi-
miques,    par Fourcroy, -ltd edit. tarn. iv. p. 158 ;) yet all this certainly ap
pears to be in favour of its being a chemical product.
    I have observed, when benzoin, balsam of Tolu, and balsam of Peru, were
dissolved in sulphuric acid, that a great quantity of beautifully crystallized
 white benzoic acid was sublimed during; digestion ; and as it is produced in
to very pure a state by this single and simple operation, I would recommend
a trial of the process to those who prepare benzoic acid for commerce; but
I  am not certain whether this mode may prove more crconomical ili-.u those
 which at present are employed.
    When dragon-s blood, however, was treated in the same manner with sul
 phuric acid, I could not obtain a particle of benzoic acid; nor did- 1 succeed
 much better when 1 had recourse to lime, according to Scheele-s process; for,
although a considerable quantity of the substance was thus rendered soluble
 in water, yet by the addition of muriatic acid I obtained only a slight appear
 ance  of benzoic acid, accompanied by a copious precipitate of red resin, not
 withstanding that the solution had acquired a powerful and peculiar balsamic
 odour.
    But in a former part of this paper I have stated, that when dragon-s blood
 was dissolved in nitric acid, and afterwards evaporated to dryness, it yielded
 about 6 per cent, of benzoic acid. Now, if this had been originally present
 in dragon-s blood in the state of benzoic acid, some stronger evidence of it
 might reasonably have been expected in each process ; but this not being the
 case,  1 am inclined to consider it as produced, and not educed, by the action
 of  the nitric acid on the original principles of the dragon-s blood ; and I am also
 persuaded that similar but more general effects take place when benzoin or
 any of the balsams are subjected to the different processes by which benzoic
 acid is obtained;    so that to me this last seems to be as much .<chemical pro
 duct as the oxalic, the acetous, and other of the vegetable acids.
    The succinic acid also appears to be a product snd not an original ingre
 dient of amber.
      Vol. «4. No. 94. March             1906.        L                   principal

 1 62     Substance possessing the Properties       of Tannin.
 principal object,    I   have not thought it necessary to enter at
 present into too minute a detail       of other particulars, and have
 therefore only thus cursorily noticed some of the principal
 effects produced by nitric acid on the resins, balsams, &c.
 Those, however, who are conversant with chemistry, will
 undoubtedly perceive        that   these effects deserve to be accu
 rately investigated ; and that the resins, balsams, gum resins,
 and gums, should be regularly examined by every possible
 method, not merely on account of the individual substances
 which may become the subjects of experiment, but because
 there is reason to expect that from such an investigation,
 medicine, with the arts and manufactures, may derive many
 advantages, whilst the mysterious processes and effects of
 vegetation may very probably receive considerable elucida
 tion.
    Concerning     the    third variety of the tanning substance,
which is produced by the action of sulphuric acid on the
resins, gum resins, &c., I shall here add but little to that
which    I  have already     stated in the latter  part of the  second
section    of my first    paper,   and in the account which      I have
lately given of an experiment on camphor.
    This variety appears to be uniformly produced during a
certain period of the process, but by a long continuance of
the digestion I have reason to believe that it is destroyed.
    Substances, such as the gums, which afford much oxalic
acid by treatment with other acids, do not apparently yield
any of this tanning substance.
    The energy of its action on gelatine and skin is certainly
inferior to that of the first variety, into which however, as
we have seen, it may easily be converted by nitric acid.
    From   the mode     of its formation    there docs not appear to
be any positive evidence         that it contains nitrogen like the
first and second varieties, and perhaps the absence of nitro-
gen may be the cause of its less powerful action ; this I have
not   as yet ascertained,     but it is my intention more particu
larly to notice in   a   future paper the general properties of this
substance.
                                                            XXVI. A

                              [     163    ]
XXVI. A simple and          accurate     Mode of constructing   Gaso*
  meters for Purposes       where     uniform Pressure   is essential,
   ly   tlte Application    of  the    Hydrostatic   Regulator.    By
  JOSEPH STEEVENS,          Esq.
      IK,                To  Mr. Til-loch
I   HAVE herewith sent you a drawing and description of &
gasometer constructed on the principle of my hydrostatic
regulator, described in your twentieth volume, page 289,
which,     I conceive, will be found fully as useful as the most
complex and expensive instrument of this kind that has yet
been produced.       I have endeavoured to be brief in my de
scription, as the reader will easily comprehend the uses and
modes     of employing    the instrument from        the descriptions
you have already published of other gasometers, and of the
hydrostatic regulator already referred to.— I am, sir,
                                     Your obedient servant,
  Garlic Hill,                                  JOSEPH STEEVENS.
 March 8, 18O6.
   A tin vessel, A, (Plate V.) of 12 inches diameter and 12
inches deep, is supported by four pillars p, p, p, p fixed at
the top into the circular piece of wood m,irl, and at the bot
tom into the wood base q q about an inch and a half thick,
and hollowed out in the middle to receive the convex surface
of  the vessel  B, on which it      is fixed by means of the loops
and hooks 0,0,0,0:. through the base q q two holes are made
to allow the cocks gc to pass, for readily removing B for
the purpose of filling, &c., though by having a cock near
the bottom it may be filled in its present situation.             The
Vessel   B is about 13 inches diameter and -10 deep, d is a
collar of leathers fixed to the vessel A, through which a
metal tube de passes, txtending down the tube               fg   to e.
To the cock g a recurved tube is fixed, and so bent that it
returns and nearly touches the upper part of the gas-lioldtr B. .
A slip of metal may be placed diagonally under this tube, to
prevent the noise of the water while runmng from A to B.
The vessel A being lilltd with water, and B with gas, in the
                                  I   2            •             usual

164             On the Construction            Gasometers,
                                          of
usual   manner, (for B is no more than the common gas
holder,) screw iu the collar d, shut the cock c, and open g,
the water    will run in until the density of the gas in B is ca
pable  of  resisting its effective pressure, which will always be
exactly equal to a column of water whose height is equal to
the height    of the orifice    e,  of the  tube de, above that      of  the
recurved    tube in the vessel B      : for   as  the air in entering the
vessel A has to counteract a column of water equal to the
depth e below the surface, so will the gas in B be pressed
with the whole column, minus that part of it above e; for the
superincumbent-column above e has no share in the pressure,
which may be increased and decreased at pleasure by ele
vating and depressing e, without regard to the quantity of
water in A, and which pressure will continue uniform until
the water subsides to the level of the orifice e. — See the de
scription of my hydrostatic regulator, Phil. Mag. vol. xx.
p. 289.
   From     the facility with      which     the pressure in this gaso
meter may be altered,         it becomes       a very useful instrument
in all cases where the blowpipe is used ; whether when
charged with oxygen gas for the purpose of deflagrating or
of deoxidating metals,         the combustion         of  the diamond,     or
other experiments where          intense heat is required ; or whe
ther it is charged with atmospheric air for miniature, glass-
blowing, soldering, or the like.            It will also be found useful
for filling vessels tor a variety of experiments in pneumatic
chemistry, as well as for playing jets of flame, &c. If a
cock, provided with a jet capable of being inclined in any
angle to the horizon, be fixed into the tubefg near q, and
the   tube   de    so elevated     that  the orifice c arrives      near   or
within    the bottom      of   the vessel     A,    a useful  and accurate
apparatus    will  be formed for illustrating the parabolic theory
of projectiles   ;  for, as the pressure      and efflux is uniform,     the
 horizontal    ranges    will  be equal    at equal      angles  above   and
below 45°, and the curve described                 distinct and well de
fined.    An instrument of this kind               has been employed       in
the Mathematical Society-s present               course of lectures,     and
is now in their repository.
                                                              XXVII.   Pro-

                                            [        16*       ]
 XXVII.             Process employed to obtain a Black                        Liquid,    invented
         tiy   Mr, CLARKE,            Englishman,
                                      art           and introduced into
      Commerce        ;     its Use   in
                                      marking Linen    a solid and dnra- in
      lle Manner,            and its Application for printing Cottons or
      Stuffs. By M. HERMBSTADT,                                of  Berlin.
 A* OR these two or three years past, black tincture has been  a
 sold for the purpose of marking linen.
    A glass polisher and directions for using the tincture
accompany the two bottles which contain the ingredients,
and the whole  scaled up     case.
                            is                  in   a
   One of the bottles contains the mordant. The other con
tains the ink, which    of    deep brown colour, and which
                                     is     a
must be well shaken before making use of          because                          it,          it
subsides         when left to rest.
     The       part    of                       most be
                             the linen intended to be marked                                    in
the first place impregnated with the mordant, which
                                                                                           is
                                                                                           al
lowed to dry on the linen. The place which had been wetted
is   then rubbed             with the polisher;                 an ordinary pen          is   then
dipped         in   the    ink,       performed on the linen
                                  and the writing             is
the same as on paper.   Neither soap nor any chemical pre
paration will destroy this \yriting, which, when well dried,
is   of   a    very fine blackt
   Having chemically analysed these two liquids,   am able                           I
to give an account of the ingredients which compose them.
                                  Preparation         of
                                                      I       lie Inh.
     Dissolve  nitric acid (aquafortis) what quantity of silver
                      in
you please.   This solution,      the silver has been alloyed
                                                if
with copper, will be of sapphire blue. a
   In order to separate the copper from the silver add to the
solution twelve times its weight of distilled water, or, for
want of         it,
            rain water, and suspend         tliin plate of cop in
                                                               it    a
per.   In proportion  as this plate dissolves,   the silver will
precipitate itself,- perfectly pure,   the form qf       in
                                                    white pow                  a
der. "When no more of this powder will precipitate itself,
the liquor should be decanted.       The powder    then washed                is
in   a   great quantity           of water, until the              water      thrown upon      it
                                            L    3                                             is

    106         Process employed to obtain a Black        Liquid.
    is no longer      of a blue cast, but remains perfectly limpid.        '
   The     residue,  i. e. this powder, well dried, will be silver in its
    purest state.
        If this residue weighs one ounce, dissolve as much gum
    Senegal and two drachms of white glue in two ounces of
   distilled water.       Mix this solution with three drachms of
    lamp-black well calcined in a close crucible.                        •
       To manufacture this mixture properly, it ought to be tri
   turated in a glass mortar.
       This operation being finished, the solution of silver, di
   luted in eight times its weight of distilled water, is poured
   upon the above mixture:          the whole is then well stirred with
   a spatula,     and the ink is made.
                        Preparation    of the Mordant.
       Dissolve two ounces of white glue and as much isinglass,
  in six ounces of alcohol and as much distilled water. This
   solution will be made in two days.           The B. M. is made use
  of for      the purpose ; and care must be taken to stir the two
  Kinds of glue from time to time.
       After the whole is dissolved, it must be filtered through
  flannel, in order to keep back all its mucilaginous particles.
  The liquid thus filtered, and preserved in a bottle well corked,
  is then ready for use.
                       Manner in    u-hick the  Ink acts.
      The solution of silver in         the nitric  acid is nothing else
  than the composition of the lapis infernalis ; and every one
 knows its properties in staining the skin, nails, >-<:., of a
 black colour.         If the linen or stuff is first impregnated with
 the above mordant, which is an animal substance, the ink
 may be afterwards applied without spreading, and will com
 pletely dye every thread of the part to which it is applied,
 the mordant having previously partly auimalized the fibre of
-the fabric.
      Soap, or any other ingredient used in washing, may obli
 terate the lamp black,         but it never takes out the nitrate of
 silver   ; and    the object proposed      is therefore perfectly well
 attained.
                                                             Application

             Production     of Muriatic Acid ly Galvamsm.                 167
   Application       of  the  Ink for printing        orange   Cotton and
                                 other   Stuffs.
     We may       easily conceive that      this ink may be employed
 with advantage for printing cloths of a white, yellow, or -rose
 ground, or any other clear colour.
     The cloths or stuffs intended to be printed in this manner,
 require no other preparation than to be dipped in a solution
 of parchment or isinglass ; and after they are dried they must
 be rubbed with a glass polisher.
     The ink mus,t be thickened for this purpose with a greater
 quantity of gum Senegal, and then applied upon the cloths
 or stuffs in the usual manner by means of wooden or metal
 stamps.
     Three or four days after this operation the stuffs must be
 first washed with a great quantity of clear water, and after
 wards with soap and water, which will make them appear of
 a finer black.
 XXVIII.        Letter of Messrs.        Civxi      and PETRINI to Pro
    fessor PACCHIANI,         nf  Pisa, on tite supposed Production of
     Muriatic Acid ly Galvanhm*.
  W HEN        professor   Simon    f,  by insulating the action of the
positive pole of the electrical column under water, obtained
 oxygen gas and an acid as the result of his analysis ; and
when he recognised in this acid all the characteristics of the
muriatic acid, he supposed that it might be produced by the
muscular fibre which he had substituted in the place of the
metal wire communicating with the negative pole of the
column     ;   and he went no further than              imagining that he
had only obtained a result             new, interesting, and agreeing
extremely       well with the most luminous facts of pneumatic
chemistry.
     It was reserved for you        to trace this result a little further ;
jnd your repetition of the         experiment      produced   this new and
             •
                Abridged from Annutet de Chimir, tome Ivi. p. 369,
             f  Annala de Chimie, tome xli. p. 106.
                                      L 4                          important

 168                   On the supposed Production
 important truth —" that hydrogen             is susceptible   of different
 degrees   of oxygenation."
    The discovery of the nature of the muriatic acid ought to
 coincide with that of the different degrees of oxygenation of
 which hydrogen is susceptible.
    "  Of  all the substances      known,"      says the illustrious   Ber-
 thollet in his Chemical           Statics,  "  there is none    of them,
 with  the exception      of hydrogen, which, at an equal weight,
 can combine with a greater quantity of oxygen, making its
 characteristic properties disappear, while the substance it
 self also loses the properties which characterize it. These
facts prove that the acid property required            to saturate deter
minate quantities of alkali, is not in proportion to the quan
 tity of oxygen which combines with abase; but that the
more it is condensed, the stronger, in consequence, is the
action which it evinces ; the less it gives of acidity at an
equal quantity, because the free acid property which it com
municates by its affinity is diminished in consequence of this
action.     Thus water, exhibiting neither the property of oxy
gen   nor   of  hydrogen, we may conclude that these two sub
stances are combined at the term where the reciprocal affinity
exercises    the greatest effect,     and when they are       in a similar
state to that    of  a  neutral salt, in which the acid and alkaline
 properties    are equally become         latent ; having experienced
by their combination        a  condensation by which their volume is
reduced to 0-0002.          In the acids the qualities of oxygen pre
vail ; in  inflammable       liquids those of hydrogen are predomi
nant in such a manner, that in the first combinations the
oxygen experiences a degree of saturation less than in water,
and in the latter it is the hydrogen which is in this state."
    After this opinion of one of the most celebrated chemists
of Europe upon         the phenomena relative to the combinations
of oxygen,     we   need  be no longer surprised to observe hydro
gen passing, in your experiments, to a state of acidity, by
abandoning a part of the oxygen which saturates it.
    We   render homage        to truth in adopting entirely your ideas
upon the decomposition           of  water by means      of the electrical
exciter.     They coincide too       exactly with the luminous prin
ciples of   the   "  Chemical Statics" to doubt it for a moment.
                                                                Occupied

                 of Muriatic Acid ly Galvanism.                  l6g
Occupied in repeating some experiments concerted with you,
we were anxious to determine the proportions of the elements
of  the muriatic acid.       We introduced into    a glass tube, in
tended to contain the water      which   was to pas* to the state of
muriatic acid, a solution of carbonate       of  soda or  of potash.
We    closed  the upper extremity     of the tube,  which was tra
versed by a gold wire communicating          with the positive pole
of the column by a crooked capillary tube, which entered
under a little bell glass filled with a solution of caustic soda,
and inverted    in a little cup containing the same liquor.
    The oxygen, which liberates itself from the water, deter
mines the production of a certain number of particles of
muriatic acid, which take the place of a greater or less quan
tity of particles of carbonic acid in the carbonate of potash
or soda according to the amount of their capacity of satura
tion. The oxygen gas and the carbonic acid gas pass through
the tube into the bell glass of the pneumatic apparatus ; and
this latter, absorbed by the caustic soda, leaves the oxygen
gas alone.     It is evident that the neutral muriate of soda or
of   potash  contained in the tube which transmits the elec
trical fluid (and which may be easily separated from the car
bonate of soda or. of potash that may remain there, by de
composing the latter by the acetic acid, and taking up the
acetate by means of alcohol) indicated the quantity of mu
riatic acid which was there formed, while the air which may
pass into the bell glass of the pneumatic apparatus announced
the quantity of oxygen which a mass of water, equal to the
amount of the weight of the acid formed, and of the oxygen
gas obtained, must lose in order to be converted into muriatic
acid.
    The   same    results may be obtained by a method much
simpler and more rigorous, by substituting in the pneumatic
 apparatus mercury in the place of caustic soda.             In this
case, a mixture      of carbonic acid and oxygen gas will be ob
 tained in the bell glass of the apparatus; and when the
quantities of soda or potash which the carbonic and muriatic
 acids require for their saturation are exactly known, the quan
 tity of carbonic acid gas liberated necessarily indicates that
 of the muriatic acid, which has assumed its place in the
                                                                tube

   1 70         Decomposition    of Walcr ly Galvamim.
 tube through which the elastic        fluid passes to form the mu
 riate of soda or of potash. We have reduced to a very simple
 formula the general expression of the results of all the expe
  riments of this kind.        If, for example,    the muriatic   acid
 necessary     to neutralise the potash     or soda freed from car
 bonic acid is    a   quantity expressed by m, and that the oxy
 gen    gas obtained is represented by n, m + n will be the
 weight of the water decomposed, which we express by P:
 thus    if  the oxygen contained in P equals 0-65 p, then the
 oxygen     which    contains m is equal to 0-85 p — n.
 XXIX.        Oil  the Decomposition      of Water ly Galvanism,
                   By JOHN CUTHBERTSON, Esq.
                             To  Mr- ™kch-
 JL HAD, by some means, overlooked that paragraph in your
valuable Magazine (vol. xxiv. p. 265.) wherein you mention
you had been informed that I had repeated the experiment
on the composition of muriatic acid by Galvanism.               I did
not know you had mentioned it till I was applieti to for such
an     apparatus    as  you had mentioned.        Your information,
however, was not perfectly correct :— I performed the expe
riment, but did not intend it for publication till I had re
peated     it in a more accurate      manner   ; I only did it to try
-what would be the consequence           when the experiment was
performed in such an incorrect manner as any person might
be able to repeat.       The water which I used was not distilled;
intending, if I found at the termination of the experiment
the remaining water to possess any other properties than
that which it had before the process, to hold it a sufficient
encouragement to undertake an accurate repetition. I found
during the process that the gold wire let fall from its surface
something that had the appearance of pieces of black rusty
metal, and the wire appeared at places much corroded. The
platina wire let fall a small white cloud near the end of the
process.      When one-half of      the water had disappeared,    the
remaining portion, by the usual tests,        showed   signs of  aci
                                                                dity.

               Decomposition      of IPater ly Galvanism.          17 1
-dity.    Two    days before the experiment ended, I placed that
 end   of  the tube which had the gold wire at the upper end of
 the trough, and very soon the platina which had remained
 bright became black, and, when magnified, had the appear
 ance of black powder covering its surface, from the end to the
 height of the gold wire. The glass tube was in the form of
the sketch sent herewith (Plate V. fig. C.) The lines on
 the inside represent       the two wires ; a b the gold wire, and
cd the platina wire.
     This result made      a repetition necessary  in a more accurate
 manner.       Accordingly,     I took another clean glass tube bent
 in the same form, but I substituted, instead of the gold wire
«ji, a platina wire, so thai both wires were of the same metal,
 and introduced liisulled water.            After this apparatus had
 stood with its end a in connection with the zinc end of the
 trough three days, the short platina wire assumed the colour
 of gold, and the long onc-bcgan to grow black from the lower
 end to the height       of the short wire, and continued so for the
 space   of  three weeks.      When about one-third of the water
 had disappeared, I connected the lower end of the tube with
 the copper end of the trough, and in the space of one day
 the black powder left the long wire perfectly bright, and the
short one became black.            In the space of two days that por
 tion of the long wire to the height of the short one obtained a
 yellowish gold-like tinge. Both remained so for three days ;
when     I placed them in their first situation : the black powder
left the short wire, and the long one became black               T im-
1nersed in the remaining water a slip of blue test paper l the
 colour was changed; so that I make no doubt but that, when
 the operation is continued till half the water disappears,          it
 will give as strong signs of acidity as the former.
     You will    observe that the ends     of the wires are placed pa
 rallel to each other ; I found that situation to be most fa
vourable to the production of gas : perhaps, if they were
 placed with their ends opposite each other, the change of
colour would not take place.
                                      I am respectfully yours,
 ffo. 64, Poland-street,                       JOHN CuTHBERTSON,
     March 82, iww.
                                                           XXX. No-

                                 [    17*    3
 XXX.       Notice  of Experiments      made    ly  the Galvanic Society
    of Paris on the Discovery announced ly M. PACCHIANI
    of I fie Composition of the Muriatic Acid*.
 As soon      as the  Galvanic Society was informed that M. Pac-
 chiani announced that he had obtained muriatic acid bytaking
 from water a part of its oxygen, the society-s first care was di
 rected to endeavour,      as  well by means of electricity as of Gal
 vanism, to confirm this discovery so important to science.
    M. Pacchiani having solely employed the Galvanic pile,
 the members determined to employ in their experiments
 the same agent, in that manner which appeared to them the
 most convenient and proper; and, above all, which might
 give results the least susceptible        of objections.
                            First Experiment.
    They took a piece of new glass tube of 0*081 parts of a
meter in length, and 0-009 parts of a meter of interior dia
meter. One of the ends of this tube was closed by the lamp;
»o the   other   a capillary tube was joined (by fusion), bent so
as to come under a bell glass.              At the upper part of this
tube,   and   at  an  equal   distance   from   the junction of the ca
pillary tube, two holes were punctured at the lamp through
the solid glass, by means of which apertures there were in
serted into the interior of the tube, at a very little distance
from its lower extremity, two bits of gold wire of the stand
ard 0-976 purity, and about 0-0005 parts of a meter in dia
meter, disposed so as not to touch each other, and not to
bear against the inside of the tube.               These openings were
afterwards closed by the lamp.             The tube and its capillary
addition was filled with pure distilled water. The whole was
fixed  with bees- wax upon a piece of glass placed upon the
middle of a horizontal Galvanic pile of 52 pairs of square
plates of 0-108 parts of a meter each side.                 These plates
were separated by bits of leather, the interstices among which
were filled up with very pure sand moistened with a solution
of muriate of       soda.     The capillary tube being plunged in a
                     * From Atusates it Chimie, tome Ivi.
                                                                     tub

            On the Composition     of tltc Muriatic Acid.            173
tub   of water, its extremity     entered     below   a bell glass filled
with the same fluid.       The two gold wires being then placed
in communication with the two poles of the pile, its activity
was immediately manifested by the disengagement of gas in
a string of very perceptible bubbles coming from the inferior
extremity of each of the gold wires, but in a much greater
quantity from that connected with the copper pole. The
pile was kept in action, with very little interruption, from
the Sth Thermidor to the llth of the following month.
After any interruption whatever, the activity was immediately
reproduced by the agitation of the wires communicating with
the poles of the pile.       It was also remarked that the activity
of the pile was constantly stronger from mid-day till four
o-clock, when it began to decline.             On the 1 1 th Fructidor
 the   apparatus   was dismounted, after having befin during
 34 consecutive days in action, and in an activity of disen
 gagement which may be considered as having been con
 tinual.    The water    was then diminished by         one-half its vo
 lume.    It  had lost nothing    of  its limpidity. The extremities
 of the gold wire, from which the disengagement of the gas
 took place in the interior of the tube, were oxidated ; the
 one-corresponding with the zinc pole of the pile was most
 oxidated.      The whole of the gas obtained and collected
 during    the   experiment was      about 793 cubic centimeters.
  The liquid remaining in the tube was examined with care.
  It produced no kind of taste upon the tongue, nor any action
  on tinctures of turnsole and brazil-wood, nor with the
  solution of nitrate of silver.
     The society proceeded afterwards to the trial of the gases
  disengaged by the action of the pile.            After having intro
  duced one measure of it into the eudiometer of Fontana,
  they made pass into it an equal quantity of nitrous gas made
  expressly for this experiment. There was an absorption of 77
  two hundredth parts upon the volume of the two measures.
  In order   to ascertain  if by this absorption all the oxygen the
  gases contained had entered           into combination,       a second
  measure of the same nitrous           gas was introduced       into the
  eudiometer after this absorption.            It experienced no dimi
  nution of volume.       They    tried    to  estimate  by comparison
              7                                                         the

    1 74            On ike Composition          oftlie Muriatic Add.
    the quantity of oxygen which could indicate the absorption
    produced by the introduction of the first measure of nitrous
    gas, by trying atmospheric air in the same manner.     They
    consequently introduced one measure into the eudiometer and
    one of the same nitrous gas.    The absorption was 55 two
    hundredth parts.   By considering this absorption as the ef
    fect of the combination of the nitrous gas with the quantity
    of oxygen gas corresponding to 0-22, which atmospheric air
    contains of      they concluded that the absorption of the 77
                       it,
    two hundredth parts, produced with the gas of the pile, re
    presented proportionally the combination of the same nitrous
    gas, with   little less than 0-31 of oxygen.
                   a                                was then ob    It
    served that, the measures of the gas having been separately
    and successively              introduced   into the eudiometer,
                                                          might                  it
    have happened   that they were not intimately enough mixed
    together, and that, consequently, the absorption might not
    be complete.       was thought more convenient to make the
                             It
    gases pass at first                by
                            separate measures under   bell glass,         a
-
    and afterwards to introduce the whole volume                         of   them     into
    the eudiometer.               The
                            preceding experiments having been
    repeated in this manner, there was, with the gas of the pile
    and the nitrous gas, an absorption of 92 two hundredth parts
    in place of 77 resulting from the same trial    the former           by
    mode    and with atmospheric air and the same nitrous gas,
             ;
    the absorption was 68 two hundredth parts           place of 55 in                      :
    there results from   always in the same proportion of 0-22 of
                                  it
    oxygen   contained in atmospheric air,     proportional indica
                                                            a
    tion of about 0-30 of this gas in that of the pile.     was tried     It
    again with the eudiometer of Volla,     introducing intoby                         ita
    measure through which the electrical spark was made to pass;
    the trial was repeatedly made upon two, three, and four mea
    sures,       and always the absorption resulting from the inflam
    mation        by   the electric spark        gave   the      same    indication of
    about 0-30 of oxygen.
                                       Second Experiment.
      Two        grammes      of distilled water were placed            in   a   glass tube
    bent in the manner           of syphon. Two wires of
                                        a                                     the gold   of
    commerce, of about 0-0002 parts                of meter in
                                                        a               diameter,     were
                                                                              introduced

              On ihe Composition    of the Muriatic Acid.         175
introduced into this tube, plunging them into the water at
about 0-006 parts of a meter distant the one from the other.
This    tube was placed upon a horizontal        pile of fifty double
plates    of  about 0*081 parts of a meter iu dimension upon
each side. The intervals were filled with dry sand, moistened
 with river-water acidulated with about a sixtieth part of nitric
 acid. The gold wires having been placed in communication
 with the two poles of the pile, the water in the tube assumed,
 frqm the first day, a reddish brown colour upon the side of
 the copper pole, and       the wire which joined it was covered
 with    a coating    of a deep brown oxide of gold. The wire
 corresponding       with ,the zinc pole did not assume the same
 colour.      The gold was gradually dissolved, and was preci
 pitated,    as well as a portion of the silver alloy. This preci
 pitate presented     to the magnifying glass, upon almost the
 whole length of the tube, needle-formed crystals. The wire
  corresponding with the zinc pole was entirely cleared of the
  gold which it contained, and it was now nothing else than a
  silver wire of extreme tenuity.         There was very little gas
  disengaged     from  either  extremity of the wires. The water
  was only diminished a fifth part of its volume. The pile was
  in full activity from the 28th Messidor to the 8th Fructidor:
  it still indicated  to the last day, by means of the electro-mi
  crometer (simplified and perfected by one of the members of
  the society upon the one constructed in Germany, described
  in the Journal de Physique for the month of Messidur,
   year 13), a tension    of 84O degrees.    The liquid residue pre
   sented    with  the different re- agents  110  mark of acidity, it
   only had a metallic taste.
      The Galvanic Society, by examining principally the re
   sults of the first experiment, as relating more particularly to
   the fact announced by M. Pacchiani, considered that, by
   keeping account of the small quantity of oxygen which had
   produced the oxidation of the extremities of the gold wire,
   they might estimate the. total quantity of oxycen contained
   in the gas of the pile ; and, as they found it very nearly in
   the same proportion that oxygen gas enters into the forma
   tion of water, the society believed they might conclude thai
    the only effect of the action of the Galvanic pile, during the
                                                                 whole

  1 76       On the Composition        of the Muriatic Acid.
  whole continuance of the experiment, had been the decom
  position of a portion of the water employed, and the sepa
  ration, in  a pure    state,  of   the oxygen and hydrogen gases
 of which it     was formed.       The society is therefore of opi
 nion,   that  M. Pacchiani      is deceived respecting the nature of
 the acid which he announced he had obtained, or that thi»
 acid may have come          from some animal or vegetable sub
 stance employed in his apparatus.              They do not hesitate to
 declare that    to  the   apparatus    employed by themselves thef
 give the preference,      as  the simplest and most remote from
 any foreign influence ; and they do not believe that it is pos
 sible to produce any thing by the action of the Galvanic
 pile, except the decomposition of a greater or less propor
 tion of the water submitted to its action.
 XXXf. Extract of          a new      Letter of Dr. FRANCIS PAC
    CHIANI, Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Univer
    sity of Pisa, to M. FABRONI, upon the Composition of
    the Muriatic Acid*.
 J.  HE efforts which the best naturalists have hitherto made
to explain in what manner water is decomposed by means
of   the electrical column,      and to give an account,       with pre
cision, of the important questions which have arisen on this
subject, demonstrate that the principles from which they
set out, in order to attain their object,              were far removed
from being an immediate result of facts clearly ascertained,
and that they were given to the public without regard to the
inductions of science.
    When    hypotheses     are established      by analogy, if they do
not perplex     the mind of the philosophical observer, they
certainly will be of great assistance to him -in his research
after truth ; but when they are too hastily erected into prin
ciples, instead of aiding the judgment, they hinder it from
displaying itself, and arriving at those sublime truths which
are the object of its labours.
                   * From AnnaLei   dc Chi-aue, tome Ivi.
                                                                  I have

                   On the Composition                    of the Muriatic Acid.               177
      I   have already sufficiently indicated                     the method      I   followed
in order       to      generalize the results                  I announced   ;    and   I   have
 demonstrated           that not only gold and platina, but all the
metals        and      metallic bodies, in short all substances proper
for decomposing water, as soon as they are traversed by an
electrical current strong enough to disengage oxygen, have
the property of converting water into oxygenated muriatic
acid. This change of nature, this metamorphosis (if I may
be permitted                      of water, fills with asto
                       so to express myself)
nishment            the
              philosopher  who  contemplates       and who                   it,
comprehends the useful consequences which may be derived
from it.
  For long time
           a           have been occupied with this subject,
                                I
and this result enters into the course of experiments which                                  I
made and communicated to M. Viltosio Fossombroni.         But
have the people who repeated my experiments read my let
ters with   tranquil spirit, laying aside all the hypotheses
                   a
already received   Did they make use of the method which
                          ?
I indicated — Certainly not.
                   ?
   My assertion so true; that some celebrated chemists, in
                           is
spite     of what observed in my letters, introduced into the
                       I
apparatus  two metallic  wires, making one of them commu
nicate with the positive pole, and the other with the negative
pole of the electrical column.   How        possible to obtain,
                                                                 is
                                                                 it
 by   such  method, the conversion of the water into oxyge
              a
nated muriatic    acid          fact recognised
                                  ?   .   It    is every na
                                                     a                       by
turalist, that the wire which communicates with the positive
pole disengages pure oxygen, while the other which com
municates with the negative pole disengages from the water
very pure hydrogen        likewise equally obvious, that the
                                 ;    it   is
two gases into which the water gradually converts itself, de
velop themselves in such proportion, that  a they lose their          if
elasticity they will again recompose the same volume of
water, equivalent in weight to that of the two gases.
I   ask, at presr nl How, after these facts,
                              ,                could be pre            it
tended that the liquid which remains from the decomposi
tion      could convert itself
                           into oxygenated  muriatic acid                                     ?
But let us proceed   step furthera  the molcculte of water :
which are deoxygenated       the contact of the wire of the
                                            by
    Vol.     24.    No.    94.    March          1806.          M                     positive

 1 78       On the Composition      of the Muriatic Add.
 positive pole, being deprived of their elasticity, could not
 they combine themselves immediately with the other mole-
 culae  of water abandoned by hydrogen in the neighbourhood
 of  the wire   of the negative pole of the electrical column,
 since they are equally deprived of elasticity ? The thing is
 self-evident: in fact, if molecuhe of oxygen and hydrogen
 deprived of elasticity, and in the necessary proportions to
form water, could enter         into immediate combination          and
not form water, it would be impossible            that    water could
exist at all.
    These considerations did not escape the celebrated Hum-
boldtand Gay Lussac : they understood extremely well that
 in  the experiment    of  the  English chemists    the    water could
not be oxygenated and hydrogenated but for a single mo
ment alone ; seeing that the total absorption of hydrogen on
one side,    and  of oxygen on     the other, shows that the water
is really neither hydrogenated nor oxygenated           ;  because,   in
order to become       so,  it would lie necessary     that it should
absorb one     of the two gases in a proportion        different from
that required for the composition of water: then, if it ab-
«orbs these two gases in the proportion indicated, we ought
to conceive that the properties of one of these would be
neutralized by those of the other, and that consequently, in
the experiment quoted, the water might hydrogenate or
oxygenate itself for a single moment, but that it could not
remain in this state in      a permanent manner, for the reason
already    mentioned.
    But to return to our subject, which is to resolve the pro
blem of the solution upon which the conversion of water
into oxygenated acid depends,
    A volume of water, distilled and deprived of air, being
given, decompose it in such a manner that the element of
which it ought       to   clear itself gradually  may be very       pure
oxygen.
                                Solution.
    Take   a glass tube   of  any form you please, provided that
it has two orifices, the     one  small and rounded, the other of
a diameter large enough to introduce the water without tr^xi-
ble   : through the first of these orifices make          a  gold wire
                                                                    pass

             On ttie Composition    of the Muriatic Acid.             1 79
pass and seal it up with wax ; then            fill the tube with di
stilled water, and place in it two or three layers of white
linen moistened ; seal it up by fixing the linen to the ex
tremity of the tube.        Plunge the tube by this last extremity
into a vessel containing very pure water. By means of se
veral moistened slips      of spongy paper make the water of this
vessel   communicate with the negative pole of a column
sufficiently energetic ; and, finally, make the gold or platina
wire communicate with the positive pole of the electrical,
column.       The  energy   of this column being proportioned           to
the number     of pairs of metallic    plates,    to their state,  and to
that of the humid conductors, would be, as is well known,
proportioned to the capacity of the tube which contains the
water under experiment. As soon as the circle is completed,
it will establish    an uninterrupted      circulation,    and    by this
means the water will gradually clear itself of oxygen, passing
it off by the wire of gold or platina.
   This astonishing change of water into oxygenated muriatic
acid creates an agreeable surprise in the mind : Felix qui
potuit rerum cognoscere causas.         After having resolved this
important problem, I proposed another to myself, which
was as follows     :
    A  volume   of water, distilled   and freed as much as possible
from air, being given, It is proposed to extract the hydrogen
from it.
                                Solution.
   Take   a glass tube    with two orifices, the one straight and
without any sharp edge, the other with a stopper, and of a
diameter sufficient to introduce the distilled water without
trouble.     Introduce through the smallest orifice a wire of
gold, platina, or other metal, and seal it hermetically with
wax.     Fill this tube with distilled water freed from air, close
the other orifice with fine linen moistened with water folded
three  or four times    ;  plunge the tube on the side of this
second orifice into a vessel      containing pure water; plunge
into this water slips of spongy paper which communicate
by the other extremity to the positive pole of the electrical
pile.   Finally, make the metallic wire communicate with
the negative-pole of this same pile. This being done, a
                                 M 2                         circulation

   1 80                  Royal Society    of London.
  circulation    of   the   electrical fluid,   as  is well    known, will
  commence, which gradually makes a                quantity of air escape
  near the metallic wire, which, being analysed,                is found to
  be almost wholly pure hydrogen.
      By this new method of decomposition                 we obtain water
  very much oxygenated, as is positively proved by the ex
  periment I have given in my Opuscules.
      If that which several philosophical physicians have asserted
 be true, that oxygen is an excellent remedy in cutaneous dis
  eases, the philanthropist        may have recourse to the electrical
 colurjfin   to obtain oxygenated water, and make numerous
 experiments useful to society.             In short, what simpler ve
 hicle could we choose, by means of which to introduce oxy
 gen into the human body, than            a  liquid so necessary to life?
             XXXII.       Proceedings   of Learned     Societies.
                      ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON.
 JL EB. 27.      The Right Honourable Sir Joseph Banks, PresU
 dent, in the chair. — A paper by Mr. Home,              "on a particular
 affection of the prostate gland," was read.             It \vas illustrated
 by a drawing exhibiting minutely the situation and figure of
this newly discovered gland, or rather peculiar nipple-formed
elongation of       a  part of the substance of the prostate gland
protruding aeamst the bladder. This disease, which so pain
fully affects the bladder, has hitherto been irremediable, chiefly
from its true cause not being known; and it is hoped that
 this physiological discovery may be of incalculable advan
tage towards relieving the sufferings            of patients supposed to
be labouring under the effects          of calculi and other urinary
diseases.
     March    6.  The President in the chair. — The reading of a
communication from Dr. Herschel, " on the quantity and
velocity of the solar motion," was commenced.
     March 13. The President in the chair. — Continuation                 of
the above paper,        much of which was of          a nature    not  to he
wad, being mathematical tables of the relative distances                  of
                                                                         the

                         Society   of Antiquaries.                  181
  the fixed    stars.  The observations contained in this paper
  are in continuation       of a former communication from the
  author on the direct motion of the sun, and illustrate, with
  his usual ingenuity, the causes of the sidereal motions ap
 plied to stars of six different magnitudes.
     March 20. The President in the chair. — A paper by
 J. Mendoza Rios, esq. was read, explaining the properties
 and use     of an instrument for dividing circles.
                      SOCIETY OF ANTIQUARIES.
     Feb. 27. The right honourable the earl of Leicester, pre*
 sident, in the chair. — The indefatigable Mr.Lysons furnished
 some very curious extracts from the Tower Records of Ed
 ward    I.,  in which it appeared that Edward was extremely
 attached to different kinds of sports and pastimes, and par
 ticularly to a game with cards which he brought from Pa
 lestine after his croisade, where painted figures on paper had
 been in use long before the reputed discovery of cards by a
Frenchman in the 1 4th century.              This fact is worthy of
attention, as it would lead to the discovery of the real origin          -
of    several   other things which have been introduced by the
same means into Europe, and which have latterly passed,
but erroneously, for French discoveries.                 It will be re
membered, that Edward, returning from the croisade, came
through France,        where he was treacherously.detained as a
hostage, and during which time he contributed very mate
rially to disseminate the arts and civilize his then faithful
subjects of Guyenne.          It is also known that the Moors used
something nearly       similar   to cards for amusement at Cordova
and Granada, and it is most probable that they were of Car
thaginian or Phoenician origin. Like almost all the utensils
of civil life, games with cards have doubtless originated in
commercial and mercantile countries.
    J. P. Malcolm, esq. exhibited to the society the core of a
horn that was found in St. Paul's Church -yard, nearly nine
feet below the surface of the ground.             This bone was sup
posed     to have belonged      to some   of the animals sacrificed   in
the days of heathen superstition, as it is         alleged that the site
of St. Paul's was antiently a place where          the Romans offered
                                    Ms                               up

182                         Society   of Antiquaries.
up sacrifices     to their gods.        This exhibition       and letter pro
duced such       a general      emotion,    that the venerable locks of
the hoary-headed antiquaries shook with laughter, although
the very learned       author did not pronounce whether the bone
which he exhibited         had belonged t.o a red or a white bull !
On the durability of   a most porous bone Mr. Malcolm had
certainly never reflected, otherwise he would not have sup
posed it above 1500 years old!
     Several   historical     documents,     extracted    by       Mr. Lysons,
were read, relative to the principles and conduct of the last
Welsh prince of Wales (in 1260), and his reluctance to
submit to the English domination.
  March 6. C. Orde, esq. vice-president, in the chair. —
Some of the antiquarian friends (not naturalists, indeed,) of
a learned lady, having expressed their doubts                 if   the misletoe
grew on the oak, she ordered a search to be made, and ascer
tained the fact, which was communicated by letter to the
society, and confirmed viva voce by one of the members,
who       saw this parasitic plant attached       to an oak branch sus
pended in the hall of Berkeley castle.   Our industrious an
tiquaries seem iy have forgotten that the viscus querc-ums,
or misletoe of the oak, has been used in medicine.
   An interesting letter to the president from the reverend
S. Weston, B. D. was read, containing a description of a
hitherto unknown brass coin of one of the states of antient
Greece.        On   one side was a head,       and on the other a bunch
of  grapes well executed. The following letters only were
visible — HT¥; the coin having been cut into an oval form.
The opinions advanced respecting it seemed to rest on mere
conjecture.
   March 20. The right honourable president in the chair. —
A mining instrument, found in an old mine near Castleton,
Derbyshire, was exhibited.  It is of the figure or a common
gouge used by carpenters, about a foot long and an inch in
diameter. The upper part of it is covered with spar, which
is evidently formed upon              it,
                          and adhering to   on all sides.     it
It thought that this mine has not been wrought since the
     is
days      of the Saxons; but no opinion was given of the pro
bable antiquity    of the instrument, which    unquestionably
                                                         is
                                                                         much

                        Galvanic Society, Paris.                           1 83
much more modern, and may have been used long since the
niine in which it was found has been worked.   Nor is the
formation of spar one of the slowest processes of mineral
aggregation.
                      GALVANIC SOCIETY, PARIS.
  The following account of the proceedings of this society,
during the years 1804 and 1805, was read at its sitting on
the 6th  of February ; 806.
   The pile of Volta has been considered in different points
of view, and has experienced several new modifications in
its construction.   One of the correspondents of the society,
M. Marechaux, has formed a pile of nine disks, composed
of zinc and copper, separated by rounds of dry blotting
paper.    Cords of silk supply the place of the glass tubes in
the ordinary apparatus,          and    hold it suspended        to a hook.
The pile thus constructed     produces very sensible effects.
M.  Marechaux thought he remarked, by means of this ap
paratus, that the electrical tension of the pile increases and
decreases in proportion to the electrical state of the air, and
that its action is stronger the more the air is charged with
humidity.
     A     new apparatus,   to   which      the   name    of   the   Galvanic
chain has been given,            has been  invented by M. Struve.
This chain        is composed     of several double cones, one of
copper and another of zinc, and so on alternately, soldered
together by their bases. To the point of these cones is an
nexed a hook, which serves to join together a greater or less
quantity of these double cones. Linen or cotton is placed
between these latter, in such a manner, however, that the
extremities are in contact with each of the extremities                     of
zinc      and copper.    The chain, thus          disposed     and saturated
with muriate of soda,       is instantly in a condition           to operate.
It   is,   according to the author, less oxidable than the ordinary
apparatus, and its acttvity triple  chain of 15 or 20 of
                                   is         ;   a
these cones having as much energy as    pile of 50 or 60
                                                      a
disks.
     It   was very difficult, with the straw electrometer            of Volta,
and even with the electric balance of Coulomb, to appreciate
                             M          4                 the

184                           Galvanic Society, Paris.
the feeble   electrical tensions of the Galvanic pile without
having recourse to the condenser; an instrument variable
in its effects, and of which the results are often deceitful.
To           this inconvenience, different electrometers have
         remedy
been presented to the society, one by M. Volf, and another
by count Sternberg ; but none of these seemed to unite so
many advantages               as one      produced by        M. Marechaux,                as im
proved by            M. Veau.de-Launy.
  Messrs. Nauche, Graperon, and Baget, have ascertained
that the Galvanic action is augmented, in the first place,
when the pile is exposed to a high temperature ; secondly,
when it is plunged into flame, or into oxygen gas, or car
bonic acid gas, &c; thirdly, they ascertained that the ef
fects     of    the pile are not transmissible in vacuo*, or that they
are then scarcely perceptible even by means                            of   a   condenser.
     By     analogous         experiments M. Edmond                    de Barrcy ascer
tained the non-transmission of Galvanism through smoke.
   Naturalists having announced opposite results from their
•experiments  on the conductibility of flame, M. Izarn took
up the question anew.   He has ascertained that flame in
terposed in the Galvanic chain perceptibly transmits the ef
fects      of   the pile.         This    he discovered       by its action on frogs.
This conductible property                        is nevertheless       very feeble,           the
frogs being excited in a much more                           lively manner when no
flame is interposed.                                               ,
     The diamond, which                       several    modern chemists regard                   as
pure carbon,            according to the experiments of M. Brugna-
                       is,
telli,     a    non-conductor of Galvanism     although      ascer
                                                             ;                  it   is
tained, from the labours of                      M.     Curtet, of Brussels, that the
oxide of carbon              is   one    of   the very best conductors.
   M. Herman, of Berlin, has examined the properties of
different substances employed as Galvanic conductors     and                              ;
has divided them into insulated bodies, into perfect and im-
     *   Mr. \V. H.
                Pepys ascertained, a considerable time ago, that the action
of   the pileaugmented by placing
                is                       oxygen, and destroyed when placed
                                                it
                                                in
in  vacuum but, instead of the effect not being transmissible through
     a           ;                                                       va                   a
cuum, he has ascertained that the metals may be deflagrated in vacuo.   The
metals, of course, are not oxidated — they are only volatilized, light being
given out during the process.— tun
                '
                                                                                      perfect

                     Galvanic Society, Paris.                 185
perfect conductors,    and into uni-polar and bi-polar bodies,
according   as   their conductible property manifests itself at
both, or only at one of the extremities of the pile.
   The theory of the decomposition of water by means of the
apparatus of Volta has commanded the particular attention
of  the society.
   One of the honorary members, M. Chompre, produced
this decomposition in a very strong glass tube full of water
and hermetically sealed, by means of a brass cap screwed on
with leather   between the joints. The result of his experi
ments was, that the Galvanic action takes place as well in
the closed tube as in an open one, or one only partly filled
with water   ; but that in the first, the water, in order to make
room for the bubbles     of the gas produced by decomposition,
penetrates   through   the pores of the brass or greased leather
which serve to close the tube, and makes its appearance in
spite  of every obstacle.
   The reported formation of muriatic acid by the decompo
sition of water presented a new problem for the solution of
the society ; and numerous experiments have been made in
order to ascertain the facts announced by M. Pacchiani.
The results, however, have not yet been similar to his ; but
the society is still occupied in pursuing the same experi
ments.
   M. Marum      produced the decomposition of water by means
of the grand electrical machine in the Teylerian museum :
the two wires of platina employed in the experiment pro
duced the liberation of a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen
gases  ; and he was not able to obtain them separate,        as he
did with the pil«.
    Gautherot, whose loss every naturalist deplores, was the
first who suggested the idea of accumulating the Galvanic
fluid, and preserving it in apparatus where it was not spon
taneously produced.       He accomplished this by a method at
once simple and ingenious.
    " If we place," says he, " in a bottle of salt water, closed
with a linen stopper, the extremities of two wires of platina,
 which traverse this same stopper without touching one an
 other; and if we make the outward extremities of these two
                                                             wires

 186                          Galvanic Society, Paris.
 wires communicate               with the two           poles    of     the    pile   ;     this
 communication              may be interrupted,          and yet the wires                will
 excite      a decided      taste, and perhaps      a slight commotion,                     and
will     even produce the decomposition                 of water.            This   experi
ment demonstrates   the presence of the Galvanic fluid in an
apparatus hy  no means  proper to form it.
     "
     If we plunge the two extremities of a single wire of pla-
tina in the extreme             cups    of   the disk apparatus,               and     if   we
bring these two ends near together, but without meeting,
and  carry them to the mouth, we experience a Galvanic
taste,       the more decided in proportion              as the diameter             of the
wire       isi   more considerable."
  The discovery made               by
                          this author, and the importance of
which he has represented, ought to become, to ubc his own
words, " the source or basis of several other experiments,
and concur, more than any other, to the discovery of the
theory of this new branch of physics."
   Treading in the footsteps of Gautherot, M. Hitter has pro
ceeded    step further, in ascertaining that bodies which form
             a
a   part    of
            Galvanic arc, pass, upon quitting
                  a                            into an op              it,
posite state from that which they formerly held, in such                                       a
manner, that the side, which during the communication was
positive, becomes negative when     ceases, and so on, vice
                                                 it
versa.   This remark conducted  him  to the construction of
a  secondary or charging pile, —   happy invention, whieh
                                                a
forms an epoch in the history of Galvanism.
   This pile  formed of disks of
                       is            simple metal, such
                                                    a                                        as
copper, and of an equal number of cards well saturated with
water.        raised on an ordinary support,
                 It   is                         alternately            by
laying on the disks of copper and the rounds of wet card.
The whole     kept steady by means of glass rods.
                      is
                                                                a by
  The pile, constructed in this manner,       itself produces
no perceptible phenomena; but placed for     few minutes in
communication with the Volta-s pile,        acquires the proper
                                                        it
ties of that pile, displays an electrical tension, evinces com
motion,           and gives sensations       of light,    taste, and other             Gal*
vanic phenomena in the same manner.
  The society resolved to ascertain the effects                              of this      se
condary pile, with all the modifications which its construc
                                                                                       tion

                 University  of Gattingen, t£c. &c.                187
tion presented ; and although they obtained results a little
weaker than those announced by Rittcr, they do not hesitate
to regard his labours, as well as those of Gautherot, as the
most fortunate experiments which have been made since the
 invention    of   the pile of Volta;    and they acknowledge that
 both of these philosophers deserve well of science — the one
 for having paved the way, and the other for having given a
 grand discovery to the world.
     The effects of Galvanism in medicine have been also tried,
 but with little success hitherto.          In some cases of asphixi.i
 it did harm    ; and out   of an immense number of applications
 to deaf and dumb patients, both naturally and accidentally
  so, only two seemed to have derived any benefit.
     Several poisons having evinced the Galvanic excitability,
  while others remained unmoved,          M. Wrankeu took     that op
  portunity of ascertaining different kinds of poisons.
                     UNIVERSITY    OF GOTTINGEN.
      This university proposes the following question as             the
  subject of a prize essay, to be given in before July 1 807         - —
  " What is the influence of the various taxations, on               the
   morals and industry of the people ?"
                  SOCIETY OF SCIENCES, COPENHAGEN.
   -  Messrs. Chaptal and Cuvier         have   been  elected members
   of this society.
      Professor Treschow, of Copenhagen, has been occupied
   during the winter in a course of lectures on anthropology,
   wherein he ha* severely criticised the speculations of Dr.
   Gall on the nature of the human soul.
                   SOCIETY OF SCIENCES, GOERLITZ.
       This society   has proposed   the following subject     of inves
   tigation to the learned :
       1. In cloudy weather it freezes but in       a small degree until
   the thermometer       of Reaumur       has fallen to the zero point,
   or   at least very little above  it :   Wherefore then, in   a serene
    bky, does it freeze when the same thermometer is three or
    four degrees above the zero point ?
                                                              8. Collect

    188      Vaccination. — Kepler tlie Astronomer. -^Astronomy.
       2. Collect     out of the works of Plautus every thing which
   relates to the knowledge of men and manners of his time,
   and arrange these materials in such a manner as to produce
   a picture    of civilization    and manners at that epoch.
          XXXIII.       Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                                  VACCINATION.
   J.  HE Prussian government has given further encourage
  ment for the progress of vaccination, by ordering medals to
  be struck     of  the value     of fifty  ducats in gold,     and contain
  ing four ounces of silver each, to be given             as  prizes to those
         contribute to its success.
                        KEPLER THE ASTRONOMER.
     A   subscription has been opened at Ratisbon for                a   monu
 ment to the memory of Kepler the astronomer.                          It is to
 consist of     a  Doric temple      23 feet   high, and is to be erected
 in   the Sternbergian gardens.
                                  ASTRONOMY.
    Table    of  the   right Ascension ami Declination           of   Ceres,
                   Pallas, and Juno, for April 1806.
                   CERES.                PALLAS.                JUNO.
               A.R. Dec.N             AR.     Dec.S   !    A.R.       Dec.N.
             h   m    •   o    /   h   m    * 0   '     b     m    >   o   /
    1806.
  April    5 6 55     4 30 52 5 48         24 5 34      11     2 20     7 12
           6 6 58    28 30 47 5 53         44 4 48     11      0 52     7 32
           9 728          30 40 5 59       12 4   4    10    59 40     7 61
         12  7    5 52 30 34 6 44          44 3  21    10    58 36 8       8
         15 7     9 48 30 26 6 10          20 2 39     10    57 40 8 24
         18  7  13 52 30 18 6 16            4 1  59   10 56 56 8 38
         21 7   18    0 30 10 6 21         52 1  22   10 56 28 8 50
         24  7  22 16 30         1 6 27 48 0 46       10 56 12 9            1
         27 7 26 40 29 5I 6 33 44 0 12                10 56        4 9 10
         30 7 31 12 29 41 6 39 48 0 20N. 10 56                    12  9 17
    Ceres and Pallas are too near the sun to be any. longer
seen    in this country.
                                                               MECHANICS.

                        Mechanics.— 'Lectures.                   189
                              MECHANICS.
     A mechanic of Copenhagen has made a model of a praam
intended to conduct, without danger, ships of the largest di
mensions across the ice.         His model has been examined by
the most celebrated engineers on the continent, and promises
to be of great service to the Danish marine.
                               LECTURES.
     Mr. Thelwall     has opened a seminary for the cultivation     of
the science and practice       of elocution, and the cure of impe
diments of speech ; and has just commenced a course of lec
tures, at his house, No. 40, Bedford-place, Russel-square,
on the physiological principles of his art, and the causes,
prevention, and cure of the several species of impediments,
natural and habitual.        The intention of the lecturer is to
 treat his subject as a branch of natural and experimental
 philosophy ; to investigate the laws of organic action upon
 which the phenomenon of speech depend ; to consider at
large the theory of the human voice, and of human enuncia
 tion   ; and to apply the principles     of that theory to the prac
 tical improvement of the power and tone of the voice, and
 the facilities of enunciative expression.         For this purpose,
 besides    the more popular      accompaniments of reading, reci
 tations, and oratorical digressions, the lectures are illustrated
 by graphic and mechanical demonstrations of the essential
 propositions; and an attempt is made to place whatever re
  lates to the fundamental requisites, and even to many         of the
 higher graces     of  elocutionary expression,    on  the broad  and
  sure foundations of anatomical and mathematical science.
                                                    •
 Even our perceptions of musical proportion, and the conse
  quent laws of musical composition, are referred, for their
  origin, to   certain  principles of physical necessity, resulting
  from the structure of the organs of voice : and from the
  existing harmony between, these principles and our percep
  tions of such proportions, Mr. T. builds his expectations of
  surmounting       all impediments not resulting either from
   deafness   or imbecility of mind.        His plan, of course, in
   cludes the structure and application of artificial organs, &c.,
   for the relief of those who have absolute deficiencies or mal-
                                                       conformatious

  IflO          List of Patents for New Inventions,
  conformations of the mouth.       The lecturer also proposes to
  receive into his house a   limited number of pupils afflicted
 with impediments, and to give private instructions in all the
 various branches of elocution.
             LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
     A   grant unto Patrick Whytock, of Liverpool, in the
  county palatine of Lancaster, merchant; for his invented
  improvements in the manufacture of piece goods, com
  posed   of cotton, of flax, or of hemp, or of any mixture
  or mixtures of two or more of these articles, by which such
  goods will resist the rotting action of wet or moisture much
 better than similar fabrics manufactured by the methods in
 common use. Dated March 8.
     To John Curr, of Sheffield-Park, in the parish of Sheffield,
 in the county of York, gentleman ; for his invented method,
 different from any that has hitherto been invented or known,
 of spinning hemp for the making of ropes or cordage.
 Dated    as above.
     To Richard Willcox, of the parish of St. Mary Lambeth,
 in the county of Surrey, mechanist ; for his invented cer
 tain   machinery    for glazing and graining leather, now
 usually performed by hand. Dated as above.
     To Edward Dampier, of Primrose-street, in the city of
 London, manufacturer; for his invented and brought to
 perfection certain machinery for rasping, grating, or re..
 ducing into small parts or powder, such v^ods, drugs, and
other substances, for the use of dyers and others, as are not
easily to be pulverized by mere percussion ; and also in re.?
gard that he is connected in trade with Edward Jackson and
Thomas Shackleton, of Primrose-street aforesaid.           Dated
March 12.
    To Michael Logan, of Paradise-street, in the parish of
Rotherhithe, in the county of Surrey, engineer; for his
invented and constructed entire new system of marine, fort,
and field artillery.   Dated March 13.
    To Charles Robert West, of Plough-court, Fetter-lane, in
the city of London, optician, and William Bruce, of King's-
Head-court, Shoe-lane, in' the city of London aforesaid,
optical turner ; for their invented certain improvements in
                                                             day

                List of Patents for New Inventions.             IQl
day or night     telescopes, whereby the same will be rendered
more portable than they now are. Dated March 1 8.
    To Henry Gore Clough, of Norton-street, in the parish
of St. Mary-le-bone,         and county   of Middlesex,    surgeon ;
for his-ifttented certain improvements in the instruments or
apparatus      commonly called trusses, which are used for
compressing and supporting such parts of the human frame
as are or may be ruptured or disposed          to protrude.   Dated
March     21.
    To Francis Place, of Charing-cross,        in the parish of St.
Martin in the Fields, in          the county of Middlesex, tailor
and mercer ; for his invented certain improvements in locks
for muskets, pistols, fowling-pieces, carriage guns, and every
species   of fire-arms.      Dated as above.
    To Richard Ottley, of Myrtle-hill,        near Caermarthen, in
Caermarthenshire, esq., and James Jeans, of Portsmouth, in
the county of Hants, ship-builder ; for their invented certain
improvements in chain-pumps, in the mode of working the
same, and in the wells for receiving such pumps, whereby
much manual labour will be saved.           Dated as above.
    To Joseph Hinchsliffe, of Dumfries,          in that part of the
united kingdom       called   Scotland ; for his invented new me
thod of manufacturing elastic spring trusses for ruptures or
rupture bandages.         Dated March 26.
    To Bracy Clark, of Giltspur-street, in      the city of London,
veterinary surgeon      ;  for his invented certain improvements
upon horse-shoes.         Dated as above.
    To Quintin M* Adam, of Anderston,              near the city of
Glasgow,      in the county of Lanark, in that part of the united
 kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland called Scotland ; for
 an improved method of dressing yarns for weaving,                by
 means of a new and useful machine.          Dated March 26.
    To William Parr, of Bermondsey New Road, in the county
 of Surrey, gentleman, Richard Bevington, of Gracechurch-
 street, in the city of London, merchant, and Samuel Be
vington, of Grange-road, Bermondsey, in the said county
 of Surrey, leather-dresser ; for their invented machine for
 splitting hides, skins, pelts,       or leather, in an improved
  aanner. Dated as above.
                                                          METEORO

1 92                                       Meteorology.
                                 meteorological table,
                           Bv    Mr. Carev, of the Strand,
                                          For March       1806.
i :                                                                 1 v>
                            Thermometer.
                                                                   DegretsofD
                                  u .            Height of
                                                                                  Hygrometer
Days of the                       o *.      a
                           «•§   r", .^    5     tnc Barom.                                          Weather.
      Month.                                o
                                                                   nessby Lesii
                       P     o                     Inches.
      Feb. 26              47°    50°      39°   30.12                46°                      Fair
           27              43     50       36    29.80                42                       Fair, and wind
           28              34     43       34    30.10                42                       Fair, and wind
 March          1          35     42       35       •15                15                      Cloudy
                           45     50       46       •20               20                       Cloudy
               6 5 4 3 2
                           46     54       46    29.92                 15                      Showery
                           37     44       34    30.35                10                       Fair
                           34     40       32       •36               16                       Fair
                           32     37       32       •38               22                       Fair
                           35     47       42       •30               26                       Cloudy
               8 7                44       40
                           40                       •14               12                       Cloudy
                           42     43       32    29'56                                         Rain
                                                                        0 0
               9
           10              32     37       32    28.90                                         Snow
           11              32     36       28    29.10                   6                     Cloudy
                           26     30       26    28•98                                         Snow
                                                                       0 0 0
           12
           13              25     36       33    29*35                                         Cloudy
           14              37     48       32       •02                                        Rain
           15              32     42       33       •51              24 .                      Fair
                           36     36       34       •30                                        Rain
                                                                       0 0 0
           16
           17              36     37       35       •25                                        Rain
           18              36     40       39       •35                                        Showery
           19              39     46       40       •31               10                       Cloudy
           20              40     47       41       •42               14                       Cloudy
           21              40     52       46       •80              30                        Fair
          'J   2           42     54       44       •85              15                        Cloudy
           23              46     57       19       •72              24                        Cloudy
           24              49     54       47       •68              15                        Cloudy
           2.5             47     52       47       •60                0                       Rain
           26              45     49       46       •85              18                        Cloudy
                                                                                                *.     •
                                                                                                       .
                      N. B. The barometer's height            is   taken at noon.

                                      [    193     ]
 XXXTV.          Account     of   a Series     of Experiments,       showing (he
      Effects    of Compression         in modifying       the  Action of Heat,
      %    Sir JAMES HALL, Bart.                 F.R.S. Edin.
                               [Continued    from p. 155.]
  III.   Experiments         made     in Tubes       of Porcelain. — Tubes of
      IFe-dgewood-s      Ware. — Methods            used to confine the Car-
      Ionic Acid, and         to close the Pores         of the Porcelain in a
      horizontal Apparatus. — Tubes made with a View to these
(     Experiments. — The Vertical Apparatus adopted. — View
      of Results obtained botli in Iron and Porcelain. — The
      Formation of Limestone and Marble. — Inquiry into the
      Cause     of  the    partial Calcinations. — Tubes of Porcelain
      weighed previous to breaking. — Experiments with Porce
      lain Tubes proved to be limited.
   W HILE I          was    carrying      on the above-mentioned experi
  ments,      I  was   occasionally occupied with another set, in
  tubes of porcelain.             So much, indeed, was I prepossessed
  in favour of this          last   mode, that I laid eun-barrels aside,
  and adhered to it during more than a year.                        The methods
  followed with this substance differ widely frorfi those already
  described, though founded on the same general principles.
       I procured from Mr. Wedgewood-s manufactory at Etru-
  ria, in Staffordshire,         a set    of tubes for this purpose, formed
  of the   same substance          with the white mortars,- in common
  use,    made     there.      These tubes were fourteen inches long,
   with a bore of half an inch diameter, and thickness of 0-2 ;
  being closed at one end (figs. 9, 10, U, 12, 13*).
       I proposed to ram the carbonate of lime into the breech
   (fig. 9. A) ; then filling the tube to within a small distance
   of its muzzle with pounded flint (B), to fill that remainder
   (C) with common borax of                 the   shops     (borate of soda) pre
   viously reduced        to glass, and         then pounded; to apply heat
   to the muzzle alone, so as              to convert that borax into solid
   glass ; then, reversing           the operation, to keep the muzzle
                       •
                          Plate IV., jfiven in our last Number.
   Vol.   24.   No. 95. April        1806.         N                        cold,

19*         FJfects of Heat     modified  ly  Compression.
cold, and apply llie requisite heat to the carbonate lodged in
the breech.
   I thus expected to confine the carbonic acid ; but the at
tempt was attended with considerable difficulty,           and has led
to the employment of various devices, which                I shall now
shortly enumerate, as        they occurred in the course of prac»
tice.   The simple application of the principle was found in
sufficient, from two causes: 1st, The carbonic acid being
driven from the breech of the lube towards the muzzle,
among the pores of the pounded silcx, escaped from the
compressing force, by lodginff itself in cavities which were
comparatively cold : 2dly, The glass of borax, on cooling,
Was always found to crack very much, so that its tightness
could not be depended on.
   To obviate both these inconveniences at once, it occurred
to me, in addition        to the first arrangement,     to place some
borax (fig. 10. C) so near the breech of the tube as to un
dergo heat along with the carbonate (A) ; but interposing
between this borax and the carbonate a stratum of silex (B),
in order to prevent contamination.            I trusted that the borax
in a liquid orViscid state, being thrust outwards by the ex
pansion     of  the carbonic     acid, would press against the silcx
beyond it (D), and totally prevent the elastic substances from
escaping out of the tube, or even from wandering into its
cold parts.
   In  some respects this plan answered         to expectation.    The
glass of borax, which can never be obtained when cold,
without innumerable cracks, unites into one continued viscid
mass in the lowest red heat ; and as the stress in these ex
periments begins only with redness, the borax, being heated
at the same time with the carbonate, becomes united and
impervious      as  soon  as  its action is necessary.     Many good
results were accordingly obtained in this way.           But I found,
in practice,     that as the heat rose,    the borax began to enter
into too     thinft fusion,  and was often     lost among the pores
of  the   silex, the space in which         it had Iain being found
empty on breaking the tube.            It was therefore found ncces-
         ft                                                        sary

               Effects   of Heat     modified    ly  Compression.             195
 sary to oppose something            more substantial and compact, to
 the thin and penetrating quality of pure borax.
     In searching for some such substance, a curious property
 of bottle-glass occurred accidentally.                Some of this glass,
 in powder, having         been introduced into a muffle at the tem
  perature    of about     20°    of Wedgewood         ; the powder,      in the
 space    of about a minute, entered into           a state   of viscid agglu
 tination, like that of honey, and in about a minute more
  (the heat always continuing unchanged) consolidated into a
 firm and compact mass of Reaumur-s porcelain *. It now
 appeared, that by placing this substance immediately behind
 the borax, the penetrating quality of this last might be ef
 fectually restrained;        for Reaumm-s porcelain has the double
 advantage      of being refractory,     and of not cracking by change
 of temperature.         I  «fbund, however, that in the act of con
 solidation,     the pounded bottle-glass shrunk, so as to leave
 an opening between its mass and the tube, through which
 the borax, and along with it the carbonic acid, was found
  to escape.      But the object in view was obtained by means
 of   a mixture     of pounded bottle-glass and pounded flint, in
 equal    parts. This compound still agglutinates, not indeed
  into  a mass so     hard   as   Reaumur-s porcelain, but sufficiently
 so for the purpose ;        and this being done without any sen
sible contraction,         an effectual      barrier was opposed          to the
 borax    ; (this arrangement is shown in rig. 11.;) and thus
  the method of closing the tubes was rendered so complete,
 as seldom to fail in practice f-                A still further refinement
 upon this method was found to be of advantage.                       A second
  series of powders, like that already described, was introduced
  towards the muzzle, as shown in fig. 12. During the first
  period of the experiment, this last-mentioned series was ex
 posed to heat, with          all  the  outward half of the tube (all);
    • Iu the same                      of the       of equal bulk would undergo
                   temperature a mass         glass
 the same change; but it would occupy an hour.
    f A substance equally efficacious in restraining    the penetrating quality of
 borax, was discovered by another accident. It consists of a mixture of borax
 and common sand, by which a substance is formed, which, in heat, assumes
 the state of a very tough pattr, and becomes hard and compact oa cooling.
                                       N   *                                   by

 196        E[fed\ of Heat modified ly        Compression.
 by Ihis means , a solid mass was produced, which remained
 cold and firm during the subsequent action of heat upon the
 carbonate.
    I soon found that, notwithstanding all the above-men
 tioned precautions, the carbonic acid made its escape, and
 that it pervaded the substance of the Wedgewood tubes,
 where no flaw could be traced.          It occurred to me, that this
 defect might be remedied, were borax,          m its thin and pene
 trating state of fusion, applied to the inside of the tube ; and
 that the pores of the porcelain might thus be closed, as those
 of leather are closed by oil in an air-pump.            In this view
 I rammed the carbonate into a small tube, and surrounded
 it with pounded glass of borax, which, as soon as the heat
was applied, spread on the inside of the large tube, and ef
fectually closed its pores.         In this mamer, many good ex
periments were made with barrels lying horizontally in com
mon muffles (the arrangement just described being repre
sented in fig. 13).
    I  was thus enabled       to carry on experiments with this
porcelain,    to  the  utmost   that its strength would bear. But
 I was not satisfied with the force so exerted ; and, hoping
 to obtain tubes      of a superior quality, I spent much time in
experiments with various porcelain compositions.               In this
I so far succeeded as to produce tubes, by which the car*
bonic acid was, in a great measure, retained without any in
ternal glaze. The best material I found for this purpose was
the pure porcelain clay of Cornwall, or a composiiion in
the proportion of two of this clay to one of what the potters
call Cornish stone, which I believe to be a granite in a state
of decomposition.         These tubes were seven or eight inches
long, with a bore tapering from 1 inch to O-C            Their thick
ness was about 0*3 at the breech, and tapered            towards the
muzzle    to the thinness     of  a wafer.
    I now adopted a new mode of operation, placing the tube
vertically, and not horizontally as before. By observing
the thin state of borax whilst in fusion, I was convinced that
it ought    to lie treated     a<< a complete liquid,    which being
supported    in  the  course of  the  experiment  from  below,  would
                                                                secure

                Effects of Heat modified       ly Compression.          1 07
  secure perfect tightness, and obviate the failure         which often
  happened in the horizontal position, from the            falling of the
  borax to the lower side.
      In this view (Plate VII. fig. 16.), I filled the breech in
  the manner described above, and introduced into the muzzle
  some borax      (C) supported at the middle of the tube by a
  quantity    of  silcx mixed with bottle-glass (B). 1 placed the
  tube so prepared, with its breech plunged into a crucible filled
  with   sand (E), and its muzzle pointing upwards.                It was
  now my object to apply heat to the the muzzle half, whilst the
 other remained cold.           In that view, I constructed a furnace
  (fig. 14. and 15.), having a muffle placed vertically ;--•/;,
 surrounded on all sides with fire (ee)t and open both above
  (at r), and below (at d).         The crucible just mentioned, with
 its tube, being then placed on a support directly below the
 vertical muffle (as represented in fig. 14. at F), it was raised
 so that the half of the tube next the muzzle was introduced
 into   the fire.    In consequence of this,       the borax    was   seen
 from above to melt, nnd run down in the tube, the air con
 tained in the powder escaping in the form of bubbles, till
 at last the borax stood with a clear and steady surface like
 that of water.       Some     of this salt, being thrown in from
 above, by means         of  a tube  of glass, the liquid surface was
raised nearly      to the  muzzle, and, after all     had been allowed
 to become      cold, the position of the tube was reversed; the
 muzzle     being now plunged into the sand (as in fig. 17-)»
and the breech        introduced     into the muffle.    In  several ex
periments I found it answer well, to occupy great part of
the space next the muzzle with a rod of sand and clay pre
viously baked (fig. 19. KK), which was either introduced
at first, along with        the   pounded borax, or, being made red
hot, was plunged into it when in a liquid state.                In many
cases    I assisted the compactness       of  the tube by means     of an
internal glaze of borax ; the carbonate being placed                 in a
small tube (as shown in fig. 18).
    These devices answered the end proposed. Three-fourths
of the tube next the muzzle was found completely filled with
a mass, having a concave termination at both ends,             (/and g,
figs. 17,     18,   19,)  showing     that it had stood as a liquid
                                     N3                                 in

  198        Effects  of Heat modified ly       Compression.
  in  the two opposite positions in which heat had been applied
 to it.    So great  a degree   of tightness, indeed, was obtained
 in this way, that      I found myself subjected to an unforeseen
  source of failure.     A number of the tubes failed, not by
 explosion, but by the formation of a minute longitudinal
 fissure at the breech, through which the borax and carbonic
 acid escaped.      I  saw that this arose from the expansion of
 the borax when in a liquid state, as happened with the fusi
 ble metal in the experiments with iron barrels ; for the cre
 vice here formed indicated the exertion of some force acting
 very powerfully, and to a very small distance. Accordingly,
 this source    of failure   was   remedied    by the introduction of
 a very small air tube.       This, however, was used only in a
 few experiments.
     In  the course   of the years 1801,     1802, and 1803,      I made
 a number     of experiments, by the various methods           above de
 scribed, amounting, together with those made in gun-bar
 rels, to one hundred and fifty-six. In an operation so new,
 and in which the apparatus was strained to the utmost of
 its power, constant success could not be expected ; and, in
 fact, many experiments failed, wholly or partially.             The re
 sults, however, upon the whole, were satisfactory, since
 they seemed to establish some of the essential points of this
inquiry.
     These experiments prove, that, by mechanical constraint,
the carbonate of lime can be made to undergo strong heat
-without calcination, and to retain almost the whole of its
carbonic acid, which, in an open fire, at the same tempe
rature, would have been entirely driven off; and that, in
these circumstances,        heat  produces some        of the identical
effects ascribed    to it in the  Huttonian theory.
     By this joint action of heat and pressure, the carbonate of
lime, which had been introduced in the state of the finest
powder, is agglutinated into a firm mass, possessing a degree
of hardness, compactness,         and specific    gravity*, nearly ap
proaching to these qualities in a sound limestone ; and some
of the results, by their saline fracture, by their semi-trans-
            • See
                  Appendix — (to be given in a future Number.)
                                                                parency,

                Effects    of Heal     modified    ly   Compression.              199
parency, and their susceptibility of polish, deserve the name
 of marble.
    The    same trials have been           made    with all calcareous sub
stances     ; with chalk, common limestone, marble, spar,                        and
the shells       of fish. All have shown the same general pro
perty, with some varieties as to temperature. Thus I found,
that, in the same circumstances, chalk was more susceptible
of agglutination           than spar ; the latter requiring a heat two
degrees higher than the former, to bring it to the same pitch
of agglutination.
    The chalk used in my first experiments always assumed
the character of a yellow marble, owing probably to some
slight contamination of iron.                When a solid piece of chalk,
whose bulk had been previously measured in the gage of
Wedge wood-s pyrometer, was submitted to heat under com
pression, its contraction             was    remarkable, proving the ap
proach     of   the particles during their          consolidation; on these
occasions, it was found to shrink three times more than the
pyrometer-pieces in -the same temperature.                        It lost, too, al-
piost entirely, .its power of imbibing %vater, and acquired a
great additional specific gravity.               On several occasions I ob
served, that masses of chalk, which, before the experiment,
hacj   shown one uniform character of whiteness, assumed a
stratified appearance, indicated by a scries of parallel layers
of  a   brown colour.          This circumstance may hereafter throw
light on      the    geological history of this extraordinary sub
stance.
    I   have   said, that, by mechanical constraint, almost the
whole of      the carbonic acid was retained.                 And, in truth, at
this period some loss of weight had been experienced in all
the experiments, both with iron and porcelain.                            But even
this circumstance is valuable, by exhibiting the influence
of  the carbonic acid, as varied by its quantity.
    When      the loss exceeded         10 or 15 per cent.*          of the weight
of    the carbonate, the result was always                 of   a  friable texture,
   • 1 have f.-iun J that, in open fire, the entire Irus sustained   by the carbonate
varies in different kinds from 4li to 45-5 per cent.
                                         N  4                                    and

200           Effects   of Heal modified ly           Compression.
and without any stony character; when less than 2 or 3 per
cent., it was considered as good, and possessed the proper
ties ,of a natural carbonate.              In the intermediate     cases, when
the loss amounted, for instance, to 6 or                    8 per       cent., the
result was sometimes excellent at first, the substance bear
ing every appearance of soundness, and often possessing a
high character of crystallization ; but it was unable to resist
the action of the air  and, by attracting carbonic acid or
                               ;
moisture, or both, crumbled to dust more or less rapidly,
according to circumstances.  This seems to prove, that the
carbonate of lime, though not fully saturated with carbonic
acid, may possess the properties of limestone ; and perhaps
a difference of this kind may exist among natural carbonates,
and give rise to their different degrees of durability.
    I   have observed, in many cases,             that the calcination has
reached    only     to a certain depth         into the mass   ;   the internal
part remaining in a state  of complete carbonate, and, in ge
neral, of a very fine quality.  The partial calcination seems
thus to take place in two different modes. By one, a small
proportion of carbonic acid is taken from each particle of
carbonate ; by the other, a portion of the carbonate is quite
calcined, while the rest is left entire. Perhaps one result is
the effect     of   a feeble       calcining cause,  acting during          a    long
time, and the other of               a   strong cause, acting for           a   short
time.
    Some of the results which seemed the most perfect when
first produced, have been subject to decay, owing to partial
calcination.   It happened, in some degree, to the beautiful
specimen produced on the 3d of March 1801,                              though      a
fresh fracture has restored it.
   A specimen, too, of marble, formed from pounded spar,
on 15th May 1801, was so complete as to deceive the work
man employed to polish         who declared, that, were the
                                         it,
substance  little whiter, the quarry from which
              a                                    was taken       it
would be of great value,       lay within reach of market.
                                    if   it                             a
Yet, in  few weeks after its formation,
          a                                fell to dust.
                                                       it
-
   Numberless specimens, however, have been obtained which
resist the air, and retain their polish as well as any marble.
                                                        Some

             Effects  of Heat modified ly    Compression.      9O\
Some of them continue in a perfect state, though they have
been kept, without any precaution, during four or five years.
That   set,  in particular, remain perfectly entire, which were
shown last year in this society, though some of them were
made in 1799,      some in 1801 and 1802, and though the first
eleven were long soaked in water, in the trials made of their
specific gravity.
   A curious circumstance         occurred in one of these experi
ments, which may hereafter         lead to important consequences.
Some rust     of iron   had   accidentally found   its way into the
tube : ten grains of carbonate were used, and a heat of 28°
was applied. The tube had no flaw ; but there was a cer
tainty that the carbonic acid had escaped through its pores.
When broken,        the place   of the carbonate   was found occu
pied, partly by a black slaggy matter, and partly by spheri-
cles of various sizes, from that of a small pea downwards,
of   a white    substance, which proved to be quicklime; the
sphericles being interspersed through the slag, as spar and
agates appear in whinstone.            The slag had certainly been
produced by      a mixture  of  the  iron with the substance of the
tube;     and the spherical form of the quicklime         seems to
show that the .carbonate had been in fusion along with the
slag, and that they had separated on the escape of the car
bonic acid.
   The subject was carried thus far in 1803, when I should
probably have published my experiments, had I not been
induced to prosecute the inquiry by certain indications, and
accidental results, of a nature too irregular and uncertain to
meet the public eye, but which convinced me that it was
possible to establish,, by experiment, the truth of all that was
hypot hetically assumed in the Huttonian theory.
   The principal object was now to accomplish the entire
 fusion of the carbonate, and to obtain spar as the result of
 that fusion, in imitation of what we conceive to have taken
place in nature.
    It was likewise important to acquire the power of retain
ing   all the carbonic acid of the carbonate, both on account
.of the fact itself, and ou account of its consequences ; the
                                                              result

C02               Effucti of Heat modified    ly   Compression.
result being visibly improved by every approach towards
complete saturation.   I therefore became anxious to inves^
tigate the cause        of the partial calcinations which      had always
taken place, to a greater or a less degree, in all these experi
ments.   The question naturally suggests itself, — What has
become of the carbonic acid separated in these partial caU
cinations from the earthy basis ? Has it penetrated the ves
sel, and escaped entirely ; or has it been retained within it
in a gaseous, but highly compressed state ? It occurred to
me, that this question might be easily resolved, by weighing
the vessel before and after the action of heat upon the car-i
bohate.
   With iron,         a constant and inappreciable source         of irregu
larity existed in the oxidation          of the barrel. But with porce
lain the thing was easy ; and            I put it in practice in all my
experiments with this material, which were made after the
                                                                                   -
question had occurred to me. The tube was weighed as soon
as its muzzle was closed, and again after the breech had been
exposed to the fire ; taking care, in both cases, to allow all
to cool.  In every case I found some loss of weight, proving
that, even in the best experiments, the tubes were pene
trated to a certain degree.  I next wished to try if any of
the carbonic acid separated, remained within the tube in a
gaseous form; and in that view, I wrapped the tube, which
had just been weighed, in a sheet of paper, and placed                 it,   so
surrounded, on the scale of the balance. As soon                      as     its
weight      was ascertained,     I    broke the tube    bya   smart blow,
and then replaced upon the scale the paper containing all the
fragments.    In those experiments, in which entire calcina
tion had   taken place, the weight was found not to be
changed,  for all the carbonic acid had already escaped during
the action of heat.    But in the good results always found
                                                        I
that   a   loss    of "weight   was   the consequence    of breaking       the
tube.
   These facts prove, that both causes of calcination had
operated      the porcelain tubes
              in                    that, in the cases of small
                                          ;
loss, part of the carbonic acid had escaped through the ves
sel, and that part had been retained within it.                I    had in
                                                                       view

                         A new     Fad in Galvanism.                       203
view methods by which the last could be counteracted ; but
I saw no remedy for the first. I began, therefore, to de
spair of ultimate success with tubes of porcelain *.
     Another circumstance confirmed me in this opinion.                       I
found it impracticable to apply a heat above 27° to these
tubes, when charged as above with carbonate, without de
stroying them, either by explosion, by the formation of a
minute rent, or by the actual swelling of the tube.. Some
times     this swelling took place to the amount of doubling
the internal diameter, and yet the porcelain held tight, the
carbonate sustaining but a very small loss. This ductility
of the porcelain in a low heat is a curious fact, and shows
-what a range         of temperature is embraced by the gradual
transition of some substances from a solid to a liquid state ;
for the same porcelain which is thus susceptible of being
stretched out, without breaking, in a heat of 27°, stands the
heat of 152°, without injury, when exposed to no violence,
 the angles of its fracture remaining sharp and entire.
                                 [To be continued.]
XXXV. A           new     Fact    in Galvanism.        Communicated       ly  a
                                 Correspondent,
                                To   Mr. Tilloch.
         SIR,
  W ISHINO         to promote Galvanic inquiries (when unattended
with cruelty), I shall beg the favour of you to insert in your
Magazine the following circumstances, which I do not know
have been observed          before    :
      In trying to produce the nervous flashings by resting dif
ferent parts of the face on a cylinder of wood covered with
 ttn-foil, I was surprised by perceiving, when the nose was
 on this cylinder, that there was a strong disagreeable smell,
like that which is produced in making inflammable air (hy-
    • I am nevertheless of
                            opinion, that, in some situations, experiments with
 compression may be carried on with great ease and advantage in such tubet.
 I allude to the situation of the geologists of France and Germany, who may
easily procure, from their own manufactories, tubes of a quality far superior
 ' o any thing  made for sale in this country.
                                                                        drogen

 204                           On faccittativn.
 drogen gas) in the common way, with sulphuric acid,
water, and iron filings.            This result I experienced several
times ; the cylinder resting on the copper end of a Galvanic
trough consisting of 25 pairs of plates, Gl- inch.            When the
nose was placed on a cylinder connected with the zinc end,
uo such smell was produced.              Quere, How was the inflam
mable air (if any was) produced to make so strong a smell ?
The first time I perceived this smell was on Saturday last.
I  again tried      the  experiment this evening, and found the
same result,       I likewise tried it with two troughs, consisting
in all of 60 pairs of plates ; and then also perceived the
smell : but the experiment was from the number of plates
so very unpleasant (the shock being great) that I did not
continue it very long, and did net determine whether the
smell was proportionally strong.
   With these 50 pairs of plates another effect occurred,
which    I had never      seen before.      I introduced in the circuit
a small     glass    tube  filled with milk instead of water, and
whilst it remained in its place I did not see any alteration
take place ; but when I took out the wire, which was a silver
one, and had been connected with the zinc end, I found a
sort of crust adhering to it which looked like cream. Quere,
Was not this curd formed byi acid from the zinc end?
A gold wire, which          was   connected with the copper end,         1
neglected    to examine.
April 7, 1806.                        A  Friend   to Physical Inquiries.
XXXVI.        On I'acc-mation.       An Examination of several of the
   Mis-statements         of Dr. ROWLEY.           By Mr. J. J. HAW
    KINS, of Islington.
                               To  Mr. Tilloch.
       sin,
.HAVING for           some    years  seen the   most beneficial effects
from    the    introduction of the cow-pock,          as well from the
practice of many of my friends, as with several I have my
self vaccinated, I felt it a duty, on the first publication of
Dr. Rowley-s pamphlet, entitled " Cow-Pox Inoculation no
                                                                Security

                                 On Vaccination.                                      203
Security against Small-Pox Infection," to examine some of
his alleged cases, in order that I might judge for myself,
whether I ought to continue favourable, or become adverse
    to the new inoculation.
      It    was at first my intention to examine the whole                   of his
    cases ; but, hearing that the indefatigable                   Dr. Thornton had
    undertaken the task, and knowing he was better qualified
    than myself, I relinquished   after visiting ten of the 218
                                              it,
    cases detailed in Dr. Rowley-s publication.    Of these ten,
    there    were three grossly misrepresented                ;   four could not be
    proved to have gone regularly through the cow-pock of                          l
    one no information could be had, the father of the child
    having died twelvemonth before Dr. Rowley published the
                      a
    case; and two were most pointedly in favour of vaccination.
       Dr. Rowley-s scandalous pamphlet would                          have    been    to
    tally unworthy of the least notice had he not                      addressed   him
    self to the passions, and thereby wrought upon the credulity
    of the ignorant and unthinking which renders    ;  necessary          it
    that the cause of truth and humanity should be vindicated.
     I  understand there are several replies to Dr. Rowley, two
    only of which have come into my hands; one,        most ex             a
    cellent      satirical   piece,      by   " Acideus;"         the other      by   Dr.
    Thornton, two reports only of whose labours                        are as yet pub
    lished   :   so far as
                      he has already gone, he has entirely dis
    proved and   overturned Dr. Rowley-s statements, and ex
    posed the baseness of antivaccinarian proceedings.
       From my own observations and practice,      can truly say,  I
I     have met with nothing but the most satisfactory evidence
    in favour of vaccine inoculation,                   and therefore   I     conceive   it
    tny duty to promote                  by
                               all the means    my power.      Al
                                                               in
                                 is it
     though the subject     so well handled       the two authors by
    just mentioned,   think  I will  be of
                                         ituse to   contribute my
    mite to the general stock of evidence, and shall be glad you
    will insert in your valuable Magazine the following state
    ment of my examination of the ten cases                   :
       Case   The cise of Marianne Lewis, which
                 1.                                     the 88th            is
    in Dr. Rowley"^ list, and the subject of one of his en-
,
    graving*,  examined with very particular attention.
                  I                                                                         •
      The doctor states, that she was vaccinated " at the Small
                                                                                      Pox

 2Q6                                     On Vaccination.
 Pox Hospital             April      1803,   and that in    June    1804 she broke
out in the head, ears, and chest, with cow-pox mange,
cow-pox hlueish abscesses : when the cold weather came,
 they were better.                In May   cow-pox mange,
                                              1805,   the same
cow-pox abscesses, blueish in appearance, attacked the child
in every part of the body, from the head to the foot ; there
were  nothing but cow-pox mange, cow-pox gatherings of
matter, cow-pox ulcers, excoriations : the child was a mere
Lazarus,          covered        all over with sores and disease ; a most
disgusting spectacle of terrible disease."
   On my visiting this child in October 1805, the mother
told me that it was vaccinated in May 1803.   There were
about 200 vaccinated at the same time.                           She never carried
her to be seen afterwards.                      There ivas no regular pustule,
fiut only a           little   sore without inflammation, which soon healed
zip.     The child         was particularly healthy        till April     1804, when
she had eruptions on the head and breast, which                             continued
four     months.She was then quite well, till May last, when
 the eruptions  came  again, and extended all over the body :
 they are now, for the most part, healed. She says also, that
Dr. Rowley   gave it as his opinion, that the sore was neither
cow-pock nor small-pox, but something between both.
   From both these statements it appears that the child was
inoculated for the cow-pock, and afterwards had an erup
tion  but the doctor has carefully omitted that, which would
        ;
have made   it no evidence in his favour, namely, that the
child did not take the cow-pock, although inoculated for                               it,
and that, for eleven mouths after the inoculation,                            she was
particularly healthy.
   There         is   some difference        also in the time      of   the eruption   :
the doctor states               it   to commence        in June,    and to become
better      in   cold weather,       ;   but the mother says        it   commenced
in April,         and continued four months,
                                      (till August, the hot
test month in the year,) when the child was quite well, till
the May following.
   From my own examination       am induced to believe that
                                               I
the eruption was very far from being all over the body                             ;
but   was sufficient for the doctor-s purpose,
       it                                       he could                 if
any way twist facts                  to favour    the    antivaccine principles,
                                                                                  for

                             On I'accinution.                        207
for      which    end   he  has   most grossly misrepresented this
case.
     Case 2.    Mr. Joules-s son, Dr. Rowley-s 3Cth          case, stated
as    follows: — " Vaccinated at the Small-Pox Hospital; ter
rible tumour in the face, of which a drawing is given re
sembling an ox."
      I saw this child, with his parents, in November 180.5.
The father told me that the boy was vaccinated -four or five
years since      :  soon afterwards he had       a  slight breaking out
 on the face, which continued              about a month : from that
 time he was perfectly well for three or four years, when a
 swelling came in his cheek, but was attended with so little
 pain, that it did not hinder his playing in the streets
 as much as other boys.             Mr. Joules said. Dr. Rowley pro
 mised to undertake the cure gratis, but never troubled him
  self about it after he had the boy-s picture.           The father and
 mother loth declared they did not think the swelling was
 caused      ly.the cow-poch.        It appeared to me a scrophulous
  case,    and nothing     could be further fetched than the notion
  of   its resembling an ox.
       Case 3.     Mr. Wild-s child,      the doctor-s 135th case, who,
  he says, took the small-pox, in the natural way, in                 Au
  gust 1805, although vaccinated tw^ years before,
       I  saw the mother and child in October 1805.               She said
   the child was vaccinated three or four years before it took
   the small-pox ; but the place of inoculation was very small,
   and did not appear like the         cow-pock she had seen in other
   persons ;    from    whence   it is  evident, although the child was
   inoculated for the cow-pock, it did not receive it. Is it any
   wonder then, that the small-pox infection took place when
    the child was exposed to it? Certainly not. And it is there
    fore a gross misrepresentation of the case, to call it an in
    stance of cow-pock failure.
        Case 4.     Mr. Colson-s grandson,          Dr. Rowley-s     137th
    case.     This   he states   took the small-pox       tsvo years   after
    cow-pox.
        In October     1805,  I saw   Mr. Colson,    the grandfather, and
    also the child-s mother, who was but seventeen years of age
     when her child was vaccinated; and thoughtlessly neglected
                                                                           to

    208                       On Vaccination,
    to carry it to the Skinner-street    station, where it was inocu
   lated, to be examined so often     as  required by the rules of the
   institution.    This,  she told me, was entered in the books at
   the station.    It therefore cannot     be   known that the child
   went regularly through the cow-pock.
       Cases 5 and 6. Mrs. Little-s two children,       Dr. Rowley-*
   77th case.     He  states the small-pox     happening three yeara
  after vaccination    : but from every information       I could ob
   tain from the mother and others, there is no proof that they
  passed    regularly through the cow-pock, and consequently
  they ought not to have been brought forward as cases
  against vaccination.
       Case 7- Mr. Nicholson-s boy, the doctor-s 35th case:
  "   Small-pox two years after vaccination." The regularity
  of the vaccination is not proved ; and there is no other evi
  dence   of the child-s having the small-pox, than Dr. Rowley-s
  saying there was one small-pock on its posteriors,             from-
  which he could have taken matter !
      Case 8.    Mr. Rice-s child,     case 197   of Dr. Rowley.      I
  could obtain no other information,          than that Mr. Rice had
  been dead above a year, and the family removed, but could
  not learn where.
      Cases 9 and 10.    Elizabeth   and   William Keen, Dr. Row
 ley-s 37th and 38th cases; both of which he states thus:
 " Vaccinated May 10th, 1805 ; small-pox 29th of May."
      I saw these two children, with their mother, in Novem
 ber 1805.       Her relation was as follows: — She has" three
 children, one of whom took the small-pox in the natural
 way, and had them very severely ; and there was no doubt
 of the other two having caught the infection ; but, by the
 advice of some friends, .she had them vaccinated, hoping
 thereby to lessen the virulence of the small-pox.         The result
justified the procedure :      the two  vaccinated children passed
through the small-pox        so favourably, that their healths were
scarcely impaired, and it was not easy to determine which
of the two diseases predominated in the constitution ; whereas
the one that was not vaccinated, languished under a most
distressing confluent small-pox, which left numerous inde
lible marks all over the face ; besides a large and disgusting
                                                                  scat

             Method     of extracting Spirits from Potatoes.                 209
scar    on the neck, just above the right clavicula; together
with    a general debility, which six months of time had hardly
lessened.
    Thus      is seen,    that   these two cases,        which     Dr. Rowley
has, by misrepresentation, endeavoured to warp to his own
purposes, are most pointedly and strongly favourable to vac
cination : how far it is so with the rest on his black list,
will no doubt        appear soon, from the labours of Dr. Thorn
ton.      I  have much reason to believe they will, for the most
part, be proved to be misrepresentations of facts, in them
selves neither for nor- against vaccination : some few mis
takes may have arisen from the inexperience of the early vac-
cinators, — this was to be expected by every rational person :
many of the cases will be found highly favourable to vac
cination ; but a considerable number of them contain their
own refutation, which any one who                     reads    with attention
may discover.           I am, sir,
                                      Your humble servant,
     Islington,                                        JOHN J. HAWKINS.
  March    24, 1806.
XXXVII.          On the Method of extracting Spirits from Po
    tatoes.      By M. GERMAIN, Chemist to the Military Hos
    pital    at Hanau     *.
IT    has been the practice, for a long time past,                 in Germany
to distil spirits from potatoes.             In the eastern    part of Prussia,
and in      Lithuania, they employ an immense quantity of these
vegetables in distillation.            In these countries they are gene
rally planted      as  the  first  crop in grounds which had been for
 merly untilled ; and with proper care, and in good seasons,
 they produce abundantly.               The residue, after distillation, is
 an excellent drink for cattle, particularly cows, whose milk
 is greatly increased          by the use of it.          When potatoe spi
 rit is properly distilled,        if  not mixed with any foreign mat
 ter, and if the potatoes            have     not been heated too much,
 or burnt,        during     their preparation,         it has     a  taste   and
                   * From   dvia-ti  de Cfcimtr, tome Ivi. p. 2O7.
Vol.    2-1.   No. p*.   Jpritt&ne.              0                        flavour

 21O        .Method   of extracting Spirits from Potatoes.
 flavour far superior to the spirit produced from barley or
 oats, which is preferred only from custom.
     It has been said that potatoe spirit sours easily, and is
 spoiled upon crossing the line : as I have not had an oppor
 tunity of proving the contrary, 1 have nothing to say at pre
 sent to these two objections ; I know, however, for certain,
 that it has been preserved in good condition for eighteen
 months,       aud that, according      to the areometer     of Richter*,
 regulated      for the experiment, it marked the 35th degree,
 without       having lost any of its good qualities, or being
 soured.       From the result of this experiment I have every
 reason to believe that this spirit,        if well  prepared,  is no more
 subject     to the   two inconveniences          with which      it is   re
 proached, than that produced from grain, and that every
 thing which       has been said against it has arisen from pre
 judice.
 Method       of performing      the  Operation     of producing Potatoe
                                    Spirit.
     A   sufficient quantity of malt must be added to the pota
 toes ; for instance, 100 bushels        of potatoes require 1 7 bushels
and a     half of malt ; and this quantity will produce five hogs
heads     of spirits, which, according to the areometer of Rich-
tcr, marks from the 36th to the 38th degree.
     I know also, by experience, that out of 120 bushels of
potatoes, and       lo of malt,      we obtain      the  same quantity     of
 spirit, and of the same strength.              It may be thought, per
haps,     that  to produce the same quantity of spirits from po
tatoes, it requires a larger proportion of fermenting materials
than common grain does, as well as more room, a greater
number of casks, and a greater expense of tiring: but all
this is ;i mistake ; because the -same casks which contain a
determinate quantity of grain will contain an equal quantity
of potatoes and malt. These will also produce the same
    • Richter-s areometer it the same as that of Baunu-, with this exception,
that each degree of the former instrument is constructed after experiments
expressly made for the purpose-      The scale U graduated into 100 parts, in
such a manner that the number at the level of the liquid denotes the quan
tity of alcohol. Thus, 36, indicates 36 parts of alcohol in 100 parts of the
ii ;uid.
                          3                                        quantity

            Method       of extracting Spirits from Potatoes.                             21 1
quantity        of spirits,      provided care is taken not to                         dilute
the potatoes          so much         as   grain,    because they            have not the
same property          of swelling which grain                       has ; and     provided
ialso,             fermentation
         that a good                      produced, and the
                                                   ha.? been
spirits have not been burned in the still. As for the fewel
required to prepare the potatoes, the additional expense is
trifling, although, in every                case,        boiling water         is made use
of. Water in this state is                  used to prepare the potatoes,                   as
the operation is performed by means of the steam of the
water, which it is necessary to keep boiling half an hour or
three quarters longer, according to the quantity of potatoes
employed ; and this is the only additional expense which
may be reckoned upon.
   The preparation of            the potatoes must be carried on in ves
sels made of oak, the            staves .of which ought to be very                     thick
and solid,       and the bottom bound                    round with iron, in order
to guard against accidents in removing.       The top of the
vesselmust have a square aperture, with a thick covering,
which should fit exactly ; this aperture serves to let the po
tatoes into the vessel after being well washed : there ought
to be another smaller aperture in the side, with a covering
to shut close, for the purpose                 of drawing the            potatoes     out   of
the vessel.
   It    is then placed upon a tressel by the side                        of   a   still, dif
ferent from that                  for general purposes. On
                              which    is used
the same side,  e. opposite to the still, and
                        /-.                       little above           a
the lower part of the tun, there      an aperture into which
the beak of the still   inverted, is                     by is
                                        means of which the
steam    conveyed to the potatoes.
          is                         In the centre of the bot
tom of the tun there should be another small aperture, through
which to evacuate any thick fluids which may collect in the
Inn; and in order that the weight of the potatoes may not
choke    the cover should be made to open inwards. When
          it,
the potatoes                which the workmen will easily
                     are prepared,
discover        by  of the apertures in the tun already de
                     means
scribed, the beak of the alembic    withdrawn    the potatoes
                                                    is                   :
are immediately afterwards ground        machine, or     kind
                                                           by    a                   a
of handmill, placed In-fore the tun close to the small side-
aperture. This mill       composed of two cylinders of very
                                 is
                                           O   2                                         hard

•212            Method          of extracting Spirits from Potatoes.
hard wood, or stone, which may be drawn more or less to
gether, as occasion requires, by means of a wheel and a
handle to            it,
             which serves to drive the axles of the cylinders
together.
  Above              the    cylinders        trough or hopper, into
                                              there       is   a
which the         potatoes are put after being drawn out of the tun,
                                      by
 by by
         little and little,   means of    shovel   and being bruised
                                                          a               ;
              of the cylinders
         the action               this trough, they fall imme
                                                      in
diately into   tub  placed
                       a    below them.    What renders this
tub indispensable,                    is,
                        that below each cylinder there      an                                   is
iron scraper, to detach the boiled potatoes which may ad
here to the cylinders.
     When the              potatoes         are thus prepared,
                                                grated barley                 the
is put into   tub and diluted with lukewarm water, taking
                     a
care not to dilute   too much    the potatoes are then mixed
                                 it                  :
with            by
           tubfulls as they are ground, and when they are
          it
finished the necessary quantity of water       added, and both             is
ingredients are stirred until perfectly well mixed, and not the
least lump left.                 The liquor
                                then left to settle; stirring
                                                     is                                               it,
however, at intervals until the whole    cold, and in proper         is                  a
state to receive the yeast.
     In    some places beer                  yeast   is   used      ;    but in others an arti
ficial ferment             is   prepared,        composed           simply of clean ground
rice.          This last         yeast      is   prepared           by kneading the ground
rice      in   cold water        :    boiling water            is   then added until  thick  a
broth      is   formed.              All    the efficacy       of this preparation results
from the care taken in heating        too much or too little
                                                          it   :    if
heated, the whole mass will be spoiled.
   To conclude — may be observed that potatoes ferment
                            :'    It
much more easily than grain, and require less yeast the fer                              ;
mentation besides  very strong, and produces
                                  is             great quan                         a
tity of froth  but    does
                       ;    not       it
                                operate  alike  through the
whole of             it,
             because, in particular places, the gross and
membranous part of the potatoes forms    strong; crust above,             a
through which the troth cannot penetrate so easily.    Expe
rience shows that, upon distilling potatoe spirits  with car
rots and beet-root,                   the spirit then drawn                   is   better and more
abundant             than when               made     with          potatoes        and beet- root
alone     ;     and the advantages                   reported           to have been derived
                                                                                                 from

           Means      of destroying   Insects and Caterpillars.         813
 from this last method of proceeding have not been con
 firmed : on the contrary, it is completely proved, that the
addition of carrots         gives   the   spirits an exquisite taste and
flavour.
    Chemists pretend that it is the saccharine substance which
causes the vinous fermentation ; that the more of this sub
stance any body contains, the better adapted it is for fer
mentation.       The present experiments on              potatoes seem to
prove that this assertion        is not strictly correct ; for they con
tain no saccharine substance, but merely starch, and yet they
ferment. We see in corn, that the quantity of spirits is in
proportion     to that of the starch, or perhaps the glutinous
substance which it contains : wheat, for instance, which
contains both the one and the other, in greatest abundance,
yields also the greatest quantity of spirits.
    The opinion of those who assert that corn in germinating
acquires thereby a mildness, seems to me of no weight, be
cause hitherto little light has been thrown on the subject ;
which has not been yet exhausted by rigorous experiments
comparing the different kinds of grain, germinated and not
germinated. There are some very intelligent distillers, who
still doubt    if   a  determinate quantity of grain produces a
greater    quantity of spirits because that grain has germi
nated.
XXXVIII.       Means      of destroying     the Insects and Caterpillars
    which, attack     Fruit  Trees.   By Madan Gacon           Dufour*.
 We      know, by        sad experience, that the husbandman has
every year    some      accidents    which unexpectedly diminish or
destroy the produce         of his ground, without having to re
proach himself with any want of care or attention.
    The present year, for instance (1805), offers a singularity
which I have not before perceived.                 In some districts the
cherry-tree    has    experienced,    at  the   time  of its blossoming,
       * From Biblivthique Physique Ecxmomique, No. 12, August 1805.
                                     O  3                            colds

214         Means          of destroying      Insects and Caterpillars.
colds and winds which   have prevented it from setting; but
another plague, not less disastrous, has attacked the cherry-
trees and   plum-trees over several districts in France.
Great swarms of little animals resembling vine-Jretters, but
which are not »o in Twlily, established their habitations at
the extremity of the branches of the cherry-trees. As soon
as a branch was               attacked, the leaves curled, and the juice
was dried up.               On opening   the leaf a considerable number
of    ants was discovered, which,                jointly with          the insect which
began the ravages,              sucked the branch,               and    made it wither.
What I          have remarked           is,   that usually, when the            vine-fret-
ters attack any tree,             the neighbouring               tree very soon expe
riences the same fate             ;  but the attack of this                 year   is    oaly
partial.         In    an alley    of cherry-trees which               I    possess there
have       seven      been     attacked, but not those which                       are next
each other. One tree was placed between two which wera
very much damaged     these insects, and yet this one was
                                   by
not hurt.
      On   these vermin           the smoke of tobacco had no effect at
all  this convinces me that they are different from the ordi
      :
nary kind.
  Plum-trees, when attacked                      by
                                 the same insect, da not lose
their fruit like the cherry-trees but the little animals cover
                                                 ;
them with more rapidity, so as to extirpate even the appear
ance of fruit.
  Having effectually watered                    a     low plum-tree,        I   covered       it
with ashes,  the manner we
                      in                         treat beans and cabbages,                   and
the vermin were destroyed                 :    but this     is   only practicable with
a tree of low height.
 I        made one remark, which               I    think   is   essential to commu
nicate     :         is,
              that plum-trees planted in ground which
                it                                          not                         is
necessarily watered,   are less attacked     these insects   by
                                                           than
those which have experienced        humidity communicated
                                                a                                             by
the plants in their neighbourhood, to which watering        ab                       is
solutely necessary.    had one planted in
                                 I              bed of arti             a
chokes we know very well that this plant requires plenty
            :
of water and the tree was entirely covered with insects. Its
               ;
leaves withered, and the fruit fell off; while two other                             plum-
                                                                                        trees,

                     On tlie Gaseous Oxide                  of Azote,                     215
trees, in ground not watered at all, were much less attacked.
This convinces           me that these were not the ordinary vermin
abundant in dry seasons.
    I   was orily able      to protect my cherries a little, by cutting
off     the extremities    of    the damaged              branches.
          people had recourse to sulphur ; but I did not fol
    Several
low that method. The smoke of sulphur destroys the insect,
I admit, but it is at least equally dangerous to the tree; I
always prefer an aspersion of the tree with soap-suds.   This
very year I experienced   the good  effects of it. I  saw my
plum-trees look green again, and the insects abandon them.
The aspersion is very easily managed, by means of watering-
pots or small garden-engines.     I have also employed a ley
of wood-ashes with the same success as s.oap and water.
    An observation equally important which I                               have made       is,
the great       damage     done          this season        in    all orchards      by    the
caterpillar.        As    soon
                             they    as           young leaves
                                                     devoured       the
they attacked th-e fruit.   In spite of the great care taken in
spring  to get rid of them,  the number of these insects    in                       is
credible.      have seen them unite on the large branches,
                I
fix their nests      to them,
                            protect them  andmea»s of the             by
downy matter which covers the buds of the ensuiqg season.
Whatever precaution    taken,        almost impossible not
                                    is               it   is
to destroy these buds.     only necessary to take off these
                                     It    is
nests and burn them             ;   and this         is way of getting
                                                          the only
rid of the coveys.         I     employed the same aspersion for my
apple-trees, and          by   that means got rid of their enemies also.
XXXIX.          Experiments              upon   the       Gaieoua     Oa-ide   of   Azo/e,
    made at     a   Meeting,        of    Amateurs,        of    Toulouse.     Described
            MI DISPAN,
    of ly
                               Professor        of   Chemistry       in   the Institution,
         that   City*.
£ OR   several years past, plenty of experiments have been
published on the effects of the gaseous oxide of azote                                    in
haled into the lungs.  But these experiments, almost always
                     * From Annalet dt Ckimit, tome Ivi.
                                            O   4
                                                                               different.

 216               On the Gaseous Oxide of Axott.
 different, and often contradictory, in their results, present
 no basis positive enough on which to ground an opinion on
 the subject. Such, at least, were the motives which induced
several distinguished chemical amateurs       of Toulouse to judge
of the singular properties attributed to this species of gas, by
actual experiments made on themselves.           As I can answer
for the purity of the substances employed, and the general           .
 precautions used      on the occasion    ; and having also    taken
minutes on the spot of the effects of the gas on twelve per
sons at least, several of whom repeated it two or three times ;
I presume that this publication will be read with some in
terest.
                            First Meeting.
    The nitrate of ammonia made use of was confusedly cry
stallized, but nevertheless very neutral.       The taste was pun
gent, and it had a slight smell.        It had been wholly formed
by the distillation of sal-ammoniac, from common potash,
and the simultaneous saturation of pure nitric acid by the
ammoniacal gas liberated by the above process.
    We then put about a hectogramme (nearly two ounces)
of this salt in a small retort, and placed it in a sand-bath.
The     salt^jnelted  and boiled some time before emitting any
gas   :  at last the retort was rilled with a white vapour which
soon disappeared,      and the gas immediately began to be libe
rated    very rapidly ; when we filled several bladders with it.
In   a  short time the production of the gas ceased, and when
we stopped the operation, almost nothing remained in the
retort; which convinced us that no accident had happened.
   Emboldened by this result, we put into a retort nearly three
hectogrammes (about six ounces) of the same salt, which
yielded enough of gas to fill seven or eight bladders, although
we lost a great part of it. The operation was continued equally
successfully as at first, until nothing more remained in the
retort ; but a circumstance occurred which surprised us all,
and for which we could not account : this was the formation
of  an abundant red vapour in the inside      of the retort in .pro
portion as it cooled, although the last gas contained no
nitrous gas : this we ascertained by suitable experiments.
                                                            Effects

                                                                                 '
                    On the Gaseous Oxide          of 4zote,                 217
 Effects    of  the Gaseous     Oxide     of Azote     when introduced into
                        the  Lungs ly Respiration.
    All   those   who have tasted or inhaled this gas agree that
 it has a    taste strongly saccharine, the impression of which
 has  been often        retained during the whole, day.                I myself
 experienced      also a nitric taste     (in   truth,   it  was   the  gas lat
 terly produced which I tasted).                 M. de M               said, no
 doubt upon perceiving the same taste, that there was some
thing styptic in it.        The    rest did not perceive any thing else
 than   a   saccharine taste     ;  which     is  certainly a very decisive
 one, considering the small quantity of matter which the gas
 could contain.
    The following        is a precise account       of  the different effects
 of the gas, as they were successively experienced by the va
 rious gentlemen who inhaled it. The gas was inhaled by
 means of a bladder with a stop-tock, the nostrils being held
 close, and the lungs emptied as much as possible.
    M.   ( J— — suddenly lost all recollection at the third in
 halation : he continued it for five minutes ; after which he
 returned to his senses very much fatigued, without being
 able to recollect any other sensation than a sudden fainting,
 and a tingling      in the temples.
    M.   de  M          experienced     a saccharine and styptic          taste,
a great    dilatation,     accompanied with a heat in the breast ;
his veins were swelled, and his pulse fell.                      Every object
appeared     to  dance    round    before  his   eyes.   He    thought, how
ever, that he could have supported a stronger dose.                        The
bladder was not large enough for his lungs.                            »
    M. de P         r experienced a saccharine taste at the first
inhalation, which became afterwards imperceptible.                          Hi»
lungs were strongly dilated, and with great heat.                       He ex
perienced very agreeable            sensations     after    laying   aside  the
bladder, and he fell into involuntary fits of laughter.
    M.  de S           experienced     the same saccharine taste as the
former gentlemen, and the impression of it continued from
ten o-clock in the morning until past midnight ; he also ex
perienced vertigoes, and his legs remained benumbed all day.
                                                                  M. G         .

 218              On the Gaseous Oxide        of Azote.
    M. G        , the same saccharine taste.        After laying     aside
 the bladder he experienced         a  dimness of sight, and after
wards    a very pleasant    sensation,    which spread through his
whole body.        His  legs were benumbed.
    M.  de  C       , a saccharine taste during        the whole day,
tingling in his ears,       legs benumbed,      the  stomach almost
choked up.        Upon     the   whole,    he regarded    what he had
experienced    as more    painful than agreeable.
                              Experiment.
    1 was anxious to know        in what   degree the necessary con
straint of breathing in a bladder influenced the above results.
These gentlemen, at my request, put themselves to the trouble
of breathing common air in the same manner. They only
found themselves mechanically fatigued ; and all of them
agreed in the same results.
                        Another Experiment*
    I was also anxious to try the effect      of oxygen    gas.    Those
who inhaled it assured me that they experienced             little differ
ence between it and common air, which consisted solely of
an augmentation of heat in the lungs.
                               Conclusion.
   Thus    the  singular    effects   above  described   belong to the
gaseous oxide     of azote alone.
                           Second Meeting.
   The object of our       second meeting was to repeat more at
lurge   the  experiments relative to the respirability of the
gaseous oxide of azote.
   We put into a retort about eight hectogrammes (nearly
 16 ounces) of the nitrate of ammonia prepared as at first; a
lengthening tube was adapted to a bottle with two necks,
whence, by means of a tube of Wclther, the gas proceeds
into the tub       The retort   rested on a sand-bath.
    Upon the first application of the heat the salt melted, and
almost at the same time some reddish vapours were formed
in the retort, but in very small quantity.              The air of the
                                                                  vessels

                   On the Gaseous Oxide         of Azote.             21 9
vessels     which   the    heat  disengaged     yielded also a nitrous-
smell to such a degree, that we were afraid of the success of
the operation ; these vapours and smells, however, insensibly
diminished,       and    at last totally    disappeared.       About this
stage     of the operation,     the bubbles     which were disengaged
bad a manifest smell of the prnssic acid, which continued a
long time. At length the retort was filled with white va
pours, and the gaseous oxide of azote began to pass, which
it soon did so abundantly that we removed the fire; and
 having again       replaced     the   charcoal,   the    gas,  which  had
 ceased during       the   interval, reappeared      in such abundance,
 thai the luting gave way at one place.                In spite of the loss
 of a considerable quantity         in  consequence of this accident,
 the disengagement of the gas into the tub continued very
 rapidly during a quarter of an hour.
      This circumstance gave us reason to believe, that if the
 luting had not given way, there certainly would have been
  an explosion.
      Twelve    persons     submitted themselves         to the experiment
  of inhaling the gas at this meeting, several of whom repeated
  it twice. It is right to observe, that the most of them had
  inhaled the gas at the last meeting, when two out of seven
  experienced      a sensation of pleasure ; but on this occasion
  none at alli and not even these two, experienced such a sen
  sation.      On the contrary, several suffered very severely.
       M. de M           stamped with his feet all the time he held
   the bladder.       After recovering from        a   profound stupor, he
   informed us, that he felt       a$  if he had got a blow with a dag
   ger on the back part of           his head capable of killing an ox,
   and which he would not experience again for any thing in
   the world.      The rest, in general, experienced vertigoes and
    dazzling of their eyes, which were succeeded in some of
    them by fits of laughter. I myself was of the latter number,
   and the following is an exact account of what I felt :
        At the first inspiration I emptied the bladder. A saccha
    rine taste immediately filled my mouth and my lungs en
    tirely, which dilated considerably.          I emptied my lungs and
    filled them again ; but at the third trial my cars tingled, and
                                                                        I let

 220              On the Gaseous      Oxide  of Azote.
I let go the bladder. I continued an instant, without losing
my recollection, rolling my eyes in a dumb stupor ; I then
burst into such a fit of laughter as I never experienced before
in my life. After some seconds, this tendency to laugh
ceased, as did also the other symptoms.
   M. dfi-'r— — — experienced no other effect than a convulsive
motion in some muscles of the face.             But he had  a violent
diarrhcea in the course of the day ; and M. D                  expe
rienced the same effects.
   Upon the whole, it would be very difficult to ascertain the
effects of gaseous oxide of azote in an exact and general man
ner, since these effects vary in different individuals, and,
what is very singular, even in the same individual.            M. de
S       , who inhaled it four times, felt new impressions every
time.     For my own part, I only         experienced a tendency to
laughter    in  one   of  the several times  I inhaled it. I should
certainly have fainted had I pushed the experiment further.
     Effects   of the Gaseous    Oxide  of Azote   upon Animals.
   I  have only one experiment upon this subject, but it ap
pears worth reporting.
   I  put a greenfinch into a glass vessel full     of gaseous oxide
of azote. The bird appeared to suffer nothing at first ; but
it soon closed its eyes, laid itself gently on its side, and ap
peared as if asleep.       When brought into the open air and
set at liberty,    it placed itself on its legs, but did not attempt
to fly away. It was submitted an hour afterwards to a se
cond experiment, and allowed to remain a little longer; b*t
no efforts could restore it to life.
   It  appears very remarkable that this bird made no effort
to get away, and that it felt no convulsions,            as generally
takes place in the other gases.
                                                            XL. Re

                               r  221     ]
XL.      Report   of  Cases  in the Finsbury        Dispensary,  from
     the  1st  of January to the 3lst of March 1806.                By
     John Taunton, Esq. Surgeon to the City and Fins-
     bury Dispensaries, and Lecturer on Anatomy,           Physiology,
     and Surgery.
Oince      last report (Phil. Mag. vol. xxiii. p. 312.)     there have
been admitted      into this dispensary 160 patients.
                   Cured                              66
                   Relieved                   -        5
                   Irregular          -       -        3
                    Under cure          -     -       86
                                                     160
      Of these, 33 have been visited at home, and eight have sub
mitted to operations.
      In the last surgical report (see January) there were 80
 patients under cure, 70 of whom have been. cured and 10
 relieved, 18 have been home patients, and two have under
 gone operations.
      Mrs. Cuffee, aet. 50, has been subject to rheumatism and
 asthma for several years.        She observed a tumour in her left
 breast some years ago, irregular on its surface and occasion
 ally attended with darting pain, which was not severe, so as
  to excite much attention, till March 1 805, when the breast
 had increased much in size, and was become very painful.
 The unfavourable symptoms continuing, she was admitted
  into the dispensary in November last ; but, owing to her bad
  state of health, nothing could be done at that time to remove
   the disease in her breast.      In January, her health being im
   proved, it was determined, in consultation, to propose the
   operation, that being the only mode of treatment likely to
   give her any chance for recovery. To this she readily con
   sented,    and requested   that an early day might be named for
   its performance.
       The operation     was   performed on the 28th of Januarv,
    which she underwent with the greatest fortitude, and had
    very little symptomatic fever considering its magnitude: as
 i  she had naturally a very     full breast,   the  size of which    was
    much increased     by the disease, the wound filled with granu
                                                                 lation^

  222         Report    of  Cases in the Finsbury Dispensary.
  lations, and was completely cicatrized in much less time
 than could have been expected from its size, as the incision
 was 14 inches in length, and a large portion of the integu
 ments were necessarily removed.
 ,   Mrs. F.,     aet.  31, has had several children, and always en
 joyed good        health     previous to the present disease.       About
  the end of May she observed a tumour on the lower part of
  the neck, but, as        it was not attended with much pain,         it did
 not excite much attention            : from the beginning it appeared
 to be very hard and immovable,               and, as it increased in size,
 it impeded respiration and deglutition.
     She was admitted into the dispensary on the 21st of Sep
 tember, when the tumour was become very painful both in
 deglutition and respiration, and, from its rapid enlargement,
 had much alarmed the patient.                It was found to be an ex-
 ostosis of the clavicle, near its connection with the sternum.
 It  reached to the upper part          of the larynx, and its base where
 it grew from          the clavicle was      more than three inches in
 length, and it must have been more than nine inches in cir
 cumference. In this case little was to be expected from any
 mode of treatment short of an operation ; which must have
 been attended         with great danger, as the tumour grew from
 the inner as well as from the upper surface of the clavicle,
and was nearly in contact with the carotid artery.
     Cicuta fomentations were ordered             with  a view to alleviate
the pain ; in which they happily succeeded-, and appeared to
arrest the growth of the tumour.                 She took the infusion of
quassia, and the fomentations were continued till the 17th
of October, when it was evident                 that  the tumour had not
increased, and the pain was much lessened during the above
period.       The emp. hydrarg. cum ammoniac. was applied,
with    a  view to increase        the action   of the absorbents  :  some
magnesia vitriolata was taken occasionally, and the plaster
renewed once in about every ten or twelve days : the tumour
gradually decreased in size, was entirely discussed by the
end of December, and she was discharged cured on the 6th
of January       1806.
Greville-strcct, Hatton-garden,
         Aprils,   180C.
                                                                 XLI.    On

                                   [    223    ]
XLT. On       the Oxidation        of Metals in general, and particu
   larly   the Oxidation       of Iron.     Read in the French National
   Institute    ly M. THENARD*.
As     soon   as  oxygen was discovered, researches became ge
neral to ascertain its properties, and it was very soon dis
covered that this gas was the universal agent of combustion.
Phlogiston       was    immediately exploded, arid hypotheses to
tally contrary       to experience were          no longer resorted to in
order to explain the generality of phenomena.                         By admit
ting  the   presence     of   this  principle,   more   or    less,  in the me
tallic calces, an exact account may be taken of the augmenta
tion of weight which metals receive when calcined.                          But,
however simple this theory may appear at present, it was
nevertheless      the result    of   a grand effort of genius..
    When it was clearly demonstrated that metals, as well as
other bodies, so far from losing their principles by combus
tion,    absorbed      a new one, because            they are thereby aug
mented in weight          ;  when Lavoisier       taught us, that in this
phenomenon,           the cause     of which was for such           a long time
unknown,        the atmosphere was decomposed, and that one                    of
its constituents        formed      a ne\v combination,          the properties
of burnt      bodies     were    examined with more care; a great
number      of new principles were discovered in such bodies,
arid   in many of them the quantities of oxygen and of the
radicals which formed them were determined.                          These new
observations were again the source of many discoveries.                        It
was seen that the same combustible body might be combined^
with- oxygen in different quantities, and that consequently
several oxides, as well as several acids, might have the same
radical.     Frequent        applications of this principle arc met
with, particularly in the oxidation of metals; and at this
period, lead, antimony, and manganese, offer the most re
markable of these applications.              It was this variety of oxides
which led the author of the Chemical Statics to think that
there actually was          not so much difference           as had been pre
viously believed         between oxides         of   the same       genus ; and
                     * From /Innalri dt Cliimi-,   tome Ivi.
                                                                             this

    224            On the Oxidation   of Metals in general,
   this led him to believe, supported also by reflections which
  were the result of many experiments, that probably even
   metals      pass from the metallic state to the maximum       of oxy-
  genation by going through all the intermediate degrees of
  oxidation in such a manner, that for each metal there is a
  multitude of different oxides.
      I am well persuaded that the number of metallic oxides is
  much greater than most chemists admit, and that they do
  not pass immediately, as is supposed, at least with respect to
  some of them, from a weak degree of oxygenation to a very
  high one ; that between these last there exists one or more
  intermediate degrees which constitute as many particular
  oxides : but I confess that I am not yet convinced that there
 are as many oxides as possible degrees          of oxygenation ; and
 if the      theory  admits   them, experience  seems  to reject them :
 in fact, why should not these different oxides combine with
 acids     ?  The  cause cannot be attributed to any thing else than
 that metals, at        a certain degree of oxidation, have more af
 finity for acids than at any other ; but for that very reason
 it may happen, that, when combined with a given quantity
 of oxygen, they may form fixed oxides, while with a greater
 or less quantity these oxides can only have a momentary
 existence. The latter would therefore be placed between
 the former ; there would be as many degrees through which
 the former would be obliged to pass without being able to
 stop   ;    and besides,   this is exactly what we observe of acids
which have the same radical.            Will it be said, that between
the sulphurous acid and sulphuric acid, between the phos
phorous        and phosphoric acids, there are several intermediate
acids     ?    And   if these intermediate acids do not exist ;  if sul
phur, phosphorus, &c. cannot form any more than two
acids, why do metals give birth to such a multitude of ox
ides ? why should not there be fixed degrees of oxygenation as
well for the one as the other? In short, how could it happen
that hydrogen forms only one oxide, although susceptible of
fixing more than five times and a half its weight of oxygen?
There are many reasons which incline us to believe that me
tals are absolutely like other combustible bodies; and al
though it is proved that the latter cannot form, with the ge
                                                                  neral

               and particularly the Oxidation          of Iron.           223
  neral principle    of combustion,      a  multitude of different com
  binations,   I am persuaded that metals, which we regard             with
  reason as analogous bodies, are not more susceptible than
  the others  of  a  multitude of different degrees of oxidation.
     If we are permitted to entertain doubts on this view             of  the
  subject, we may certainly have some upon the               nature of    the
  oxides in their combinations with acids ; and even                 if this
  truth had not been long admitted by chemists, some general
 observations would        suffice to place the subject in a clear
 point of view.       Let us take a glance, however, of each of
 these   oxides, and attentively consider the oxides of iron,
 which are the principal objects of this memoir.                       Here
 every thing     demonstrates,      that  in combinations      of this   sort
 the oxides are constant.            Although cobalt, nickel, lead,
 zinc, gold, and platina,        are all the bases    of several oxides,
 yet in all the salts which      they form they are always equally
 oxidated  :  thus the oxide is blue in all the salts of cobalt,
 green   in those of nickel; it is white in those of bismuth,
 zinc,  and lead ; and it is gray in those           of silver, yellow in
 those  of gold,   and brown       in those of platina : it varies, to
be sure,   in the   salts of antimony, tin, mercury, copper, and
 iron ; but still with several of them it is only certain of their
oxides that can unite with acids.            Two white oxides of an
timony alone are susceptible of this combination — the white
volatile oxide and the white oxide of the second degree ; the
white oxide at the maximum is not attackable, except by
the muriatic acid : still, however, if it is not in a state of
very minute division,         the muriatic      acid   dissolves   it with
great difficulty,    and   always by partly passing to the state of
oxygenated muriatic acid.           Tin, mercury, and copper, like
antimony, do not form saline combinations with the acids,
but under two states of oxidation ; tin in the state of a gray
and a white oxide, mercury in the state of a black and a red
oxide, and copper in the state of a yellowish white and a
brown oxide.
    Hitherto it was thought that it was the same case with
iron,   and that    in all  the   salts   which    it was susceptible of
forming, the oxide was always green or red. Some chemists,
however, have admitted an intermediate oxide : they believed
    Vol.  24.  No. 95. April      1800.      P                         that

226                  On the Oxidation           of Metals in general,
that there was also a yellow oxide, because ferruginous salts
present themselves sometimes under this colour.    Reasoning
upon the hypothesis that all the metallic salts were always
of the  same shade as their oxides, they were necessarily led
to adopt that idea; but it is now very well known that this
method           of viewing the subject is often erroneous, and that
a salt is       often white or red although its oxide is red or blue.
Another salt, consequently,     might be yellow, and have a
red oxide for its base : this is exactly the case with all the
yellow salts of iron.   Besides the green and red oxide, how
ever,      there         exists another oxide         of iron which performs    a
very important part in the ferruginous saline combinations;
and as, on the one hand, the formation of several produc
tions manufactured in the workshops, and, on the other hand,
as the explanation of several phenomena, which often present
themselves   in the arts, depend upon the existence of this ox
ide, I think it my duty to enter into some details respecting it.
   It is formed when iron is treated with most of the acids ;
and we obtain it by decomposing by means                         of potash, soda,
and ammonia,                  the   various salts so formed.       Above all, by
means      solution of iron in sulphuric acid we may easily
                of   a
demonstrate its existence. If in this recent solution we pour
some alkali,    white precipitate is formed, which becomes
                          a
speedily green at the surface and soon passes to a red co
lour *. These changes of colour, which take place in the
whole mass               if it   is agitated, are evidently      produced by an
absorption of oxygen ; because, in repeating the experi
ment in a flask, the air which it contains sensibly diminishes
in volume, and soon extinguishes a taper plunged into                          it,
when the white oxide has become
                     (                                    green, and with greater
reason when              it   has passed to the red.
      Ft   is   this white oxide, hypersaturated             with sulphuric acid,
-which forms,              in   a   great measure,     the sulphate  of iron used
  •I   poured some Iiyperoxidated sulphate of iron into    great excess of
                                                                   a
caustic potash, and always observed
                           I           white precipitate.
                                                 a         even boiled the
                                                                   I
mixture in retort the neck of which was plunged into water; the oxide be
                 a
came green, and was even red at the surface but the lower part was always
                                                      ;
perceptibly white, although     contained no sulphuric acid. Of this con
                                           it                              I
vinced myself by washing             it,
                            dissolving   in the muriatic
                                                 it      c         J,
                                                             and by adding
citrate of barytes to it.
                                                                               in

                 and particularly the Oxidation             of Iron.          2S7
  in commerce.          Nevertheless, besides this combination, the
 white oxide may still form a sulphate much more acid ; and
 then, instead of being of a dark green, the compound ap
  proaches     to a clear emerald        green. Thus we find there is a
 green oxide       as well as a red oxide of iron ; each of them, on
 being united with sulphuric acid, gives birth to at least two
 very distinct salts. Let us now proceed to examine these six
 kinds    of sulphate of iron.
     I shall distinguish the first of them by the names of aci
 dulated sulphate and acid sulphate of white iron, because
 the oxide in these is colourless, and the one much more acid
 than the other       ; the   second, for the same reason, under the
 names of acidulated sulphate and acid sulphate of green iron ;
 and the third, for the same reason, I shall term neutral and
 acid sulphates       of red iron.
     The acidulated sulphate of white iron is obtained by boil
 ing sulphuric acid diluted with water upon an excess of iron
 filings or turnings.           When dissolved, or in particular cry
 stallized, it is always of a bottle green, and the more co
 loured it is, the more is it esteemed in commerce.                      It in
 stantly loses this colour upon an addition of sulphuric acid ;
 it then takes an emerald green and becomes acid sulphate
 of white iron, which          alters blue colours much more than the
 former*:       it is then   less  fit for the operations of the arts, and
 rejected by manufacturers, who give a preference to the for
mer, not from prejudice, but founded on the nature of saline
    * When
              sulphuric acid is poured into a solution of acidulated sulphate of
 white iron, evaporated in such a manner as to mark 36° to the weight of the
liquor, it almost immediately forms an abundant white and crystalline pre
cipitate, which is nothing tlse but acid sulphate of white iron.      This is the
reason why, in Titriol manufactories, it sometimes happens that the liquor be-
comet all at once troubled to a certain degree, and leaves a deposit of a white
matter, which is rejected by the manufacturer, .mil gets the name of magne
sia.   The solution is then too acid, and the escape of this excess of acid takes
place instantly, so as to form an acid sulphate which is precipitated, and an
acidulated sulphate which remains in solution and crystallizes much more re
gularly than the fint. This inconvenience misht be guarded against by boil
ing the solution a longer time with iron, and adding water to it, if necessary ;
because   the acidulated sulphate of white iron or the sulphate of iron of com
merce, when it is too much evaporated, is also susceptible of partly concreting
 iwelf ; at lean it sometimes  duet >o suddenly, all in a inait.
                                       P  2                      compositions ;

228          On the Oxidation       of Metals in general,
 compositions    ; it may be transformed also into acidulated
 sulphate by heating it with iron; this is what is done in se
 veral vitriol manufactories, and particularly at Beauvais,
where this salt is extracted from pyritous turf, which is
burned, and which without that would yield acid sulphate,
 less beneficial in commerce.         This may be done with every
 kind of acid sulphate, whatever is its origin ; whether na
 tural or artificial, the transformation always takes place : it
 would still be made whether the oxide of iron was green or
 red. The acidulated and acid sulphates of white iron are
 both precipitated white by the alkalies ; they instantly de
 compose oxygenated muriatic acid, and pass, in proportion
 as more or less   of it  is introduced into them, to that state  of
 sulphate in which the oxide is green or red; it is in this
manner that the oxygenated muriatic acid acts upon the pure
white oxide ; such also is the action of the air upon the com
binations of this oxide w ilh acids, and particularly with sul
phuric acid. This is the reason why the colour of these so
lutions is not constant ; from the green they pass to the red ;
the liquor is troubled, deposits a yellow matter, and then
ceases to be coloured.          All  these  phenomena   may be ex
plained from natural causes, and are the consequences              of
 the properties which the other sulphates of iron present to
us, of which we are now about to speak.
    The acidulated and acid sulphates of green iron, both of-
which result from the combination of the green oxide of
iron with sulphuric acid, present the most striking differ
ences. The first (being that which is only a little acid)
does not crystallize at all, not being able to exist except in
a liquid state ; if submitted to evaporation it absorbs oxygen
from    the air,   becomes     troubled,   and deposits neutral sul
phate, yellow, insoluble, and very much oxidated : thus it
transforms itself into acid sulphate, in which the oxide- is
always green, but itself almost colourless, and which resists
every kind of decomposition much more than the other :
although it has green oxide for its base, it is red itself: this
is what occasions the error of most chemists, who, down to
the present moment, have regarded it as a -sulphate very
much oxygenated       :  thence it again happens that the acidu
                                                               lated

                                                                 -
              .and particularly the Oxidation    of Iron,           229
  lated sulphate of white iron, the solution of which is of a
  fine green, reddens on its exposure to the air.
      Oxygenated muriatic acid converts it all at. once into acid
 sulphate highly oxidated ; iron, on the contrary, converts it
 into acidulated green or little oxidated sulphate ; the sul
 phuric acid makes it lose its red colour immediately, hy
 transforming it into an acid sulphate almost colourless, or at
 least  only slightly green.     This acid sulphate     may   be cry
 stallized by a well managed evaporation ; the crystals formed
 are something of an emerald green colour, and in this re
 spect it approaches an acid sulphate little oxidated ; they do
 not sparkle nor deliquesce l their solution in water, which
is but little coloured, does not, like the acid sulphate of
white iron, absorb oxygen till after a long time : the excess
of acid which they contain fixes to a certain degree the oxide
of iron ; nevertheless by means of oxygenated muriatic acid
the oxide becomes red ; and by means of irorr it passes to
the state of white oxide, particularly at the temperature of
boiling water. Both the acidulated and acid sulphates of
green iron precipitate themiielves green hy means of the al
kalis.     The precipitate contains no acid when a great excess
of    base is added,    and particularly when heated : in every
instance it is green. It is by treating the red oxide of iron
with diluted sulphuric acid that we obtain the acid sulphate
of   red iron  ; the solution would    not take place if the acid
were concentrated.        The acid sulphate of red iron contains
more acid in excess      than the acid sulphate of green iron,
and the latter much more than the acid sulphate little oxi*
dated.     These properties are common to them with all oxides
of   the same kind ; they require the less of any acid for their
saturation the less oxygen they contain ; and, on the con
trary, they require the more acid the more they are oxygen
ated ; this is proved by antimony, mercury, tin, copper, and
iron.    They alone among all the metals       combine with acids
at different degrees    of o.xygenation  ; and  all, without excep
tion, are subject to this law.        This is the reason why the
solution of mufiate of tin little oxidated becomes troubled
by the contact of the air, or when being crystallized we at*
tempt to dissolve it.        It is also for this    reason  that   this
                                  P 3                             same

230                 On tlie Oxidation                  of Metals           in general,
same                   of tin entirely decomposes corrosive
          recent solution
sublimate and revives the mercury, not only taking the oxy
gen from          it,
             but even the muriatic acid. Thence   also hap                                it
pens that the acid sulphate of white iron transforms itself
in part,      by
           absorbing oxygen from the atmosphere, into green
acidulated sulphate, and assumes     slight red tint    thence
                                                             a                             ;            it
happens at last, that this same salt, when           only acidu                 it   is
lated, becomes troubled all at once upon pouring aerated
water into                its solution      :         other phenomena depend
                                                 several
upon the same cause                  ;      but, should    insist longer on this
                                                                 I
branch,   should wander too far from the subject on which
             I
I propose to treat.
  Like the two other acid sulphates, the red aciJ sulphate
of iron     almost colourless
              is               takes   very strong colour,
                                                       ;   it          a
                                                                                                        a by
and reddens               when its excess of acid                     is   saturated     in part
potash    ;   by
             adding   greater quantity of
                                    a                                       a   sail liable base,
                                                                      it,
                                                                                         it is,
neutral sulphate     precipitated from
                               is           which                                                 however,
susceptible of being decomposed       the alkalis               by                   :         separates,
as well as all the highly oxygenated salts                                      of iron, sulphur
from hydrogen, and returns to the state of very acid green                      a
or white sulphate of iron   yields no crystals upon evapo
                                             ;        it
ration  the iron changes
         i                into   less oxygenated sulphate.
                                                 it          a
 I      have but little to say                   of
                                               highly oxidated neutral sul
                                                       the
                          yellow and insoluble    this  the sulphate which is
                  by is
phate    :   it                                              ;
in time,     exposure to the air,       precipitated from solu   is
tions of green or white acidulated sulphate this         also the               :            is
sulphate which    deposited   when
                              is     the solution  of green aci
dulated sulphate of iron    evaporated, and which from being
                                             is
red becomes               almost colourless, because then                           it   passes to the
state   of acid sulphate                ;   it   is   this salt, in short, which chemists
formerly took for particular oxide, and which induced them
                               a
to admit   yellow oxide of iron, as intermediate between the
              a
red and the green.
    The action of  the muriatic and nitric acids upon iron re
sembles   much  that of the sulphuric acid that of the muri                 ;
atic acid does not differ at all, but the acid muriates of iron
are not so well characterized as the acid sulphates    the mu                              ;
riate when little oxidated crystallizes very well, and the cry
stals formed from     are of   fine green; but when the solu
                                it                a
                                                                                                      tion

                  and particularly the Oxidation                of Iron.                 231
tion is exposed to the .airy the iron becomes more oxidated,
and as it then requires a greater : quantity of muriatic acid
                    partly precipitated. No nitrate, however,
to dissolve
                  it,    is
                  it
exists in which the oxide     *yhite. We can only obtain green
                                     is
and red nitrates of iron the first   5  formed     taking five
                                                  is                 by
parts of the acid, and the second                  by
                                        employing twelve or
fifteen parts of acid.  If the acid was more concentrated,                                   a
portion of the red oxide would be precipitated, and very
little of    would be found in solution,
             it                              contained from if  it
thirty-six to fortyparts.  This precipitation would not take
place, unless the red oxide was very little divided           to               :   it   is
this cause that we ought to attribute the inaction of the nitric
acid upon colcothar, as well as the little action which sul
phuric acid itself has upon this substane'e.       What proves
this    the property which these two acids have of easily dis
        is
solving the red oxide in the gelatinous «tate, or recently pre
cipitated from the nitrate or muriate     alkalis.     by
    We find        in   the other acids the same mode                of action          as   in
the sulphuric acid   but the generality of salts which result
                           ;
from them, being insoluble, are rather obtained         means                  by
of double decompositions than directly.         shall not here   I
take notice of all the saline bodies, on account of the little
interest they have hitherto excited in the arts and sciences                                 ;
I shall only examine the two most important, — the gallates,
which serve as the bases of the black dye and the prussiates,
                                                            ;
the use of which has so much increased for these thirty years
past.
    We know that               gallic acid attacks iron even at the
                               the
temperature        of the atmosphere    that  ; dissolves
                                                       it  with the       it
disengagement of that proportion of hydrogen gas necessary
when water   decomposed; that this solution., at that time
                   is
colourless, becomes hlue very soon on its exposure to the
air; and that then    begins to he thick, and passes to
                               it                                                            a
blackish gray. All these phaenomena have been described
with much care by M. Proust, but to this moment the whole
have not received satisfactory explanation.
                          a                 discovered the       I
cause  of their difference in the three oxides which iron                                    is
susceptible of forming.    Thus,                  by
                                      pouring gallic acid into
acidulated sulphate of white iron, no precipitate   obtained              is                 ;
                                          P
                                          4
                                                                                        with

S3 2        On the Oxidation         of Metals in general,
xvith the acidulated and         acid sulphate of green iron it forms
a precipitate    of
                 a fine blue ; and by repeating the expe riment
with   ahighly oxygenated salt of iron, the matter deposited
is of a black inclining to gray. An excess of acid, however,
hinders the deposition from taking place. This is %vhat we
remark in the acidulated sulphate of white iron, where the
addition of an alkali is indispensable for the formation of the
gallate which then presents itself under the form of violet-
coloured flakes    this is also what is observed in red acid sul
                      ;
phate of iron, where the saturation of the acid is necessary
for the precipitation of the composition ; this, on the con
trary, does not take place in the red muriate of iron which
is only a little acid.
   The three oxides of iron of which we have been speaking,
and all of which may be combined with acids, form com
binations with the pitissic acid much more multiplied than
those we are about to examine.      Not only do prus/iates of
iron exist, neutral and with an excess of oxide, but both the
one and the other are susceptible of uniting with the prus-
tiate of potash and forming triple insoluble salts, if the me
tallic prussiate predominates  and, on the contrary, it will
                                       ;
form soluble salts when there is almost nothing in it but
alkaline prussiate. Such, in few words, is the general his-,
tory of Prussian blue ; but it is of too much importance
to science not to consider particularly            every one   of its com
ponent parts.
   One department of this history, the most useful to study,
is the difference of colour in the precipitates obtained by de
composing solutions of iron by the alkaline prussiates : tho
shades of these precipitates are singularly various.  Some
times they are white, and sometimes greenish ; but oftenest
they are more or less blue, and the eye accustomed to judge
of colours recognises many different shades in these prin
cipal colours.   These effects do not depend entirely upon the
state of the oxidation of the iron ; they depend also upon
the state of the alkaline prussiate and the metallic solution.
  If   the iron is little oxidated, the solution but               little acid,
and the prussiate         has an excess    of alkali,   a white precipitate
       be obtained]        it will   be greenish white,      if,   while the

              and particularly the Oxidation     of Iron.        233
other circumstances are the same, the prussiate is neutral ;
the one differs from the other only in the proportion of their
constituent principles ; the former contains an excess of ox
ide, while in the latter the acid is merely saturated with it.
Thus the acids instantly render the prussiate of white iron
greenish, by taking from it a part of its base ; and the alkalis
make the slightly green prussiate of iron pass to a white co
lour, by attracting to themselves a part of the acid which
enters into its composition      : thus by art we may transform
these two salts,     the one into    the other at pleasure, merely
by varying the quantity of the substances which form them.
     These precipitates are not simple prussiates of iron, as has
been believed for a long time ; they contain besides prussiate
of potash,     as Berthollet has proved. The prussiate of pot
ash has even so much affinity for the prussiate of iron, that
 the sulphuric     acid  only decomposes in part the insoluble
 combination      which these two salts form together.           If  a
 slight excess of acid only is added, the residue still contains
 plenty of potash, and is perceptibly green ; it becomes
 greenish blue by a greater quantity of acid, and, when ana
 lysed, little alkali and oxide is found in it : this attraction is
 still more striking when     the prussiate  of  potash is abundant
 enough     to render   the combination     soluble  ; then the sul
 phuric acid does not disengage from it even the most trifling
 smell of bitter almonds, and the sulphate of iron uniformly
 produces a very great quantity of precipitate ; while, if the
 alkaline salt is pure, the carbonic acid is powerful enough to
 disengage the prussic acid from it.
     The same results are obtained by substituting, in place of
  the acidulated sulphate of iron not much oxidated, the green
  acidulated sulphate of iron and the red muriate of iron which
  is only little acid : its precipitates are always triple prussiates
  of iron  and potash ; that one     the oxide  of which  is green, is
  less  blue than the      one the oxide    of which    is red ; both
  change    colour   if united with a great excess of oxide; the
  first becomes yellowish white, and the second reddish yel
  low ; if the excess of oxide is less, they approach nearer
  to  a blue colour ; but both the one and the other are sus
  ceptible of being brightened by the acids.
                                                                   Six

  834         On the Oxidation      of Metals in general,
     Six prussiates   of iron therefore exist, which are well cha
  racterized ; three of them are neutral, and three with an ex
 cess of oxide; the excess of oxide may be more or less con
 siderable, which varies in a singular manner the colour of
 these prussiates.      These six prussiates of iron may be com
 bined with different quantities of prussiate of potash, and
 without doubt     also with the other alkaline prussiates,    in such
 a manner that this genus of salts is very numerous in species.
 It is generally observed that those which contain much alkaline
 prussiate are soluble ; those, on the contrary, which contain
 much prussiate of iron are insoluble.          We know that Prus
 sian blue becomes green by exposure to the air, and that it
 then forms red oxygenated prussiate of iron.          When the or
 dinary prussiate of potash is boiled with Prussian blue, which
 is thus oxygenated in whole or in part, the oxygenated
 prussic acid acts upon the potash, and the prussic acid com
bined with it acts upon the oxide of iron in such a manner,
 that the filtered liquor precipitates the red nitrate or muriate
 of iron of    a green    colour.    This is the reason why certain
 solutions of prussiates,      made    by means    of Prussian blue,
precipitate the sulphate      of iron little oxidated  in a white co
lour instead of    a  blue one.
    Tt is this variety presented      by prussiates in their compo
sition, which      renders   their preparation so difficult.     This,
however, is not the only obstacle we meet with in the ma
nufacture of Prussian blue; there are still a great many
others, which      were only surmounted after a long time, and
some of them even exist at this moment.               One of the per
fections necessary to be attempted in this art, would be to
save for other uses the great quantity of carbonate of am
monia formed by calcination, which would admit of the
prussiate of iron being used with much more advantage in
commerce.        I   am convinced,     by experiments made with
great care, that on calcining potash with animal matters,
as much carbonate of ammonia and prussiate of potash is
obtained   as  when such animal matters are distilled by them
selves ;  so that   as much prussiate of iron is formed with the
carbon resulting from their distillation, as with all their prin
ciples united.      We may thus make sal-ammoniac at the
                                                                same

             and particularly the Oxidation     of Iron.       235
same time     with Prussian blue,    and consequently double the
products without much augmenting the expense of the
manufacturer.      The manufacturers of Prussian blue ought
not only to direct their attention to this point, but also to
several others which might improve their different processes.
Some do not employ the most advantageous proportions of
potash and blood, some do not add iron, and several main
tain the heat too long : only a very few of them take the
trouble of crystallizing the prussiate of potash; many of
them do*not know that in the calcination of substances, the
sulphate of potash contained in the potash made use of is
transformed into sulphurets, and for a much stronger reason
they are ignorant of the means of preventing the bad effects
of it. In short, almost the whole of them consecrate too
much time in oxygenating Prussian blue ; by that means
 augment the manual labour, and deprive themselves of the
 power of making more considerable quantities of it. The
prosperity of their manufactories depends, , however, on all
 these considerations united.
    The following    is what  I  have remarked on this point   :
     Experience   has proved to me, that     a quantity of   potash
 equal to that of blood was preferable to every other propor
 tion ; we know that the Addition of iron favours the .forma
 tion   of prussiate of potash, and fixes it. It is not less evi
 dent that the effect of fire is also as important to observe,
 because, by exceeding the point of fusion, we decompose
 the prussiate  of potash, or   the matter which ought to form it.
 It  is equally necessary  to crystallize the prussiate of potash,
 particularly   when we wish to obtain Prussian blue of a su
 perior quality.    On the one hand, we thus transform the
 sulphurated hydro-sulphuret of potash into sulphate of pot
 ash ; and, on the other hand, it is only necessary to add
 very little alum in order to saturate the excess of alkali : we
 might again decompose the sulphurated hydro-sulphuret of
  potash by means of the sulphuric acid, because the acid does
 not alter the prussiate    of   potash  combined    with a certain
  quantity of prussiate of iron.        This crystallization is not
 indispensable in the fabrication of common Prussian blue,
  into which much alumiuc enters, which cannot be separated
                                                                 but

 236         On the Combination            of Antimony with Tin.
but by a great quantity of potash ; it is sufficient to boil the
liquor some time in order to burn the hydro-sulphuret ; and,
besides, the sulphurated hydrogen is separated by the acid
of    the alum.      In short,         would be very much
                                     the operation
abridged,      instead of washing the prussiate of iron in
              if,                                                                    a
great quantity of water,  was only mixed with
                                 it             small quan         a
tity of oxvgenated muriate of lime.
   Such are the observations which     considered I mv duty            it
to collect in the present memoir; the whole facts do not be
long to my subject.     In order to support those which do,
I have connected with them some observations which were
the result    of    the labours       of different chemists.           Sometimes
I have even repeated facts known long ago, in order to pre
sent at one view the properties of  body, or the track we
                                                  a
ought to follow in an operation. Yet still, believe, have   I               I
examined, with some advantage to the arts and sciences, the
oxidation of iron and the combinations of its oxides with
acids.   The existence of the white oxide of iron will make
us acquainted with various phaenomena the causes of which
were hitherto unknown          explains, in particular, that va
                                 ;    it
riety of colours which all the  ferruginous salts present to us.
It   spreads some light on one        of the finest and most important
dyes   known, viz.       that   of black. It does not throw less light
on the manufacture of Prussian blue, upon the improvement
of which much  yet remains to be done.   In short, deeply               it
concerns the art of obtaining sulphate of iron, the perfec
tion of which becomes daily more and more desirable.
XLII.     On the Combination                of   Antimony        with Tin.      By
                                M. Thenard         *.
1 was led, about  year ago, to make the observations
                       a                                                    I   am
now abo*it to communicate,  upon examining an alloy                             at
tempted to be introduced into commerce, and to which such
miraculous properties were improperly attributed, that, ac
cording to some accounts,    might have been substituted
                                       it
in place of silver.
                         From Annates      de Chimie, tome Iv.
                     *
                                                                                It

               On the Combination               of Antimony with Tin.                 S37
    It   was       said to be very malleable;                 but, above all, its ad
mirers boasted   of ils inalterability.                        By its appearance I
thought  that it  contained plenty of tin ; and as the price
of it was moderate, I presumed il also contained antimony,
and, to a certain degree, zinc or lead also.      This was
tbe reason why I treated 100 parts of it with the nitric
acid. This portion of it was immediately attacked by a vio
lent effervescence, and converted into a white powder.   At
the end        of half     an hour's ebullition,             after having filtered the
liquor,        I   tried it successively by the potash                     of commerce,
the sulphuric acid, and the hydro.sulphurets.
    All
      these re-agents having indicated that it contained no
thing metallic in solution, I thought it very probable that
this alloy was composed of tin and antimony alone. In
order to ascertain this completely, I took the above white
powder produced by the nitric acid, and I dissolved it in the
muriatic acid.                 I   concentrated the solution,              and diluted it
with water.              It produced,         as   I   had   previously conjectured,
a very abundant precipitate ; but having allowed the liquor
to settle a whole day, and having decanted        found no                 it,
                                                                             I
more metallic            than in the preceding.
                               traces                  Ammonia
scarcely troubled    at all, and the hydro-sulphuret of potash
                                it
gave      itslight yellow colour.
               a                     Although had performed          I
the operation with much care,       could not at first give credit
                                                   I
to this result,            it      appeared so singular,         and   it    was   only by
repeating          it   that   I   found I    was not deceived.             What ought
I to conclude from this                 ?     Had consulted only the known
                                                       I
properties of            the oxides        of antimony and tin, should haveI
been      led to believe             that the substance        I   had examined was
nothing but antimony.                      It   was however sensibly malleable,
and must therefore have contained another metal.    Every
thing led me to believe that this was tin and, in fact,                ;               I
actually formed an alloy with antimony and tin, which en
joyed all the properties of the one above described. Four
 parts of tin and one of antimony give    very ductile alloy.    a
 Equal parts of each also give an alloy which possesses still
a  certain ductility. But   few centiemes of lead enter into
                                         if a
the tin, both the above alloys become very brittle.     The                            in
termediate alloys possess properties. relative to the quantities
                                                                                        of

    238       On the Combination    of Antimony with Tin.
   of tin   and  antimony which constitute them. All of them
   are not precipitated from their solution    in the nitro-muriatic
   acid by means of water. There are,        necessarily, limits ; but
   these limits are very distant.      It is necessary for the alloy
   to contain one-third of its weight of antimony to have this
   property, particularly if the excess of acid has been in a
  great measure driven off by evaporation.        I ought, however,
  to notice that the precipitation is not completely made in
  less than 24 hours, when antimony predominates ; because
  then the latter portions, which are a combination of the
  two oxides with the muriatic acid, only separate by little
  and little.
     This is not, however, the only example we have of com
 binations of oxides. We cannot doubt that the oxide of
 tin does not combine with the oxide of lead ; for            on cal
 cining an alloy of three or four parts of lead and one        part of
 tin, it soon burns in the manner of apyrophorus, and         is con
verted     all at once into oxide   ; while tin, much more com
bustible than lead, far from presenting this sort of phaeno
menon, does not transform itself into putty but after a
 long time, even by multiplying its points of contact with the
air.     I made   several  other trials in order to ascertain if the
 oxide of antimony would act upon other oxides as well as
 upon the oxide of tin.       I think I ascertained that the latter
 is the only one which the antimonial oxide takes with it in
precipitation, and that the oxide of bismuth does not preci
 pitate any oxide along with itself, not even the oxide of tin.
     After having thus proved synthetically that my alloy was
formed of tin and antimony, I proceeded to inquire after
the analytical means proper to produce the separation of
these two constituent principles.           I then employed the
muriatic acid, which dissolves tin very well, and docs not
attack     the oxide of antimony.         It had hardly any ac
tion upon the alloy ; and, besides, in the portion dissolved
I found antimony. I next tried sulphurated hydrogen.                I
knew that it would easily precipitate the muriate of an
timony; and that, on the contrary, it would not decom
pose    but with    difficulty the highly oxidated muriate of
tin.    This method had no more success than the former.
                                                                 The

           On the Combination     of Antimony with Tin.          239
The liquor concreted in a mass, and did not admit of my
obtaining the salt of tin by itself; and even the separation
was far from being exact.        I tried also, but always without
effect,   to volatilize  the   antimony,    by heating the      alloy
strongly in close vessels.      Finally, I treated the alloy with
nitro-muriatic acid, and      I  did it in such a manner that the
two muriates were       highly oxidated.      I distilled them in a
retort, taking care to agitate it incessantly in order to avoid
the boiling over, particularly at the end of the operation.
I urged the fire even until the bottom of the retort was red,
and   I obtained sensibly all the muriate of tin. The muriate
of antimony, which when highly oxidated is not volatile,
remained in the retort. A very small quantity of this salt
alone had passed into the receiver.        The muriate of tin also
is scarcely troubled by means of water. Although this pro
 cess was perhaps not very rigorous, in order to separate the
 two oxides of tin and antimony, I look upon it as the best
 hitherto employed, and I consider it good enough to indi
 cate how many centiemes of tin are contained in antimony,
•or vice versa.
     The consequences which may          be drawn      from this new
 fact, important enough to merit the attention of chemists,
 are evident.    Is it well ascertained that the mines of anti
 mony do not contain tin, and vice versa? Certainly not,
 because the methods of analysis hitherto practised to separate
 these two metals have been inexact. Already have I searched
 for tin in sulphuret of antimony, and I never discovered a
 single trace of it ; but I have not yet analysed any other ores
 of antimony, nor of tin. It is a labour which appears to
 me very useful to make, and which perhaps would furnish
  interesting results.
                                                     XLIII.  Abridg-

                                  [   240     ]
  XLIII.     Abridgment      of certain Papers written       on the appa
     rent Magnitude       of tlie horizontal Moon, and published at
     sundry    Times*.      To which are added new Experiments to
    prove the Truth of the Author-s Tlieory, and to exhibit a
    clear Representation        of the Phenomenon       on optical   Prin
     ciples.    By Ez. WALKER, Esq.
                              To   Mr. Tillock,
          SIR,                                        Lynn, March  II, 1806.
  V>   »EN    the  full moon is just rising       above a clear  horizon,
 she is an object that pleases eveiy eye.              But  at the same
 time that she pleases the eye of the philosopher, she em
 barrasses his reasoning in attempting to assign the cause
 why her     apparent   magnitude is greater near the horizon than
 at higher elevations.
    When men in former ages began to reason on this phae-
nomenon,        they imagined that the angle subtended by the
moon was really increased, by a refraction of her rays, in
 passing through the vapours contained in the air near the
earth-s surface.        But  as  soon   as  it  became known that she
subtended the least angle at the eye when her apparent mag?
nitude was greatest, philosophers said that the eye was im
posed upon by the long series of objects interposed between
the eye and the extremity of the sensible horizon.                   And
after it was discovered that the same phenomenon was ob
served    at sea, where no land objects could be seen, they
blamed the clouds for deceiving them; and when the clouds
flew away, the spirit of inquiry flew after them, to seek fdr
information in the apparent concavity of the sky.
    Such were the erroneous opinions maintained by men of
the greatest celebrity, both in antient and in modern times.
To mention any more of them would be useless labour : a
single quotation^ from Dr. Smith-s Optics will, I presume,
be quite sufficient to show how little was known of this
matter at the time when he wrote.
   After the professor had finished his explanation               of this
                        * In Mr. Nicholson-s Journal.
                                                         phenomenon,

            Apparent Magnitude         of the horizontal Mom.           241
  phenomenon, he justly acknowledges that at different times
  the moon appears of very different magnitudes even in the
  same horizon,       and occasionally of an extraordinary large
  size, of which he is not able to give a satisfactory explana
  tion. — Smith-s Optics, vol. i. p. 63, &c.; Remarks, p. 53.
      It is really astonishing that this phenomenon should have
  remained for more than 2000 years without an explanation
  founded on      a better   principle than that of mere opinion.
      That the dimensions of the pupil of the eye alter by the
  stimulus of light, is a truth well known ; and it is also true,
  that the picture of the moon formed upon the retina is not
  permanent, but varies as the dimensions of the pupil vary.
      To demonstrate this property of the eye, let ACB, (fig. Z,
  Plate   VII.)   represent    a plano-convex lens;    PA    and  RB two
  pencils of white or compound rays of light, falling upon it
  at the points A and B, in a direction parallel to its axis :
  also, let AJCI; and By v be the red or least refrangible rays,
  and   Ayy    and   B^x the violet or most refrangible. The red
  ray from A will cut the violet ray from B at the point x,
  and the red ray from B will cut the violet ray from A at the
  pointy; through          these intersections draw the line xy, and
• this line will be the diameter of the least circular space into
  which all the rays that fall upon the lens parallel to its axis
  can be collected ; and this circle, which for brevity-s sake is
  called the circle of aberration, is the true focus of the lens,
  or place where the image of the object is formed.
      Let the sine of incidence going out of glass be n, the
  sines of refraction (into air) of the least and the most re
  frangible rays be p and q ; then if a plano-convex lens be
  exposed with the plane side to the sun, the diameter of the
   circle of aberration xy (or image of the sun formed of rays
   of different refrangibility) is to      the diameter  of   the lens   AB
   as q  —p   to q + p —      2n*.
      From this given ratio of A B to xy it follows,               that   the
   image of the sun within a telescope varies with the             aperture
   of the object    glass.
      Sir Isaac Newton found, by most             accurate   experiments,
                 * This theorem is well known to mathematicians.
    Vol.  24. No.    95.  April    1806.    Q_                           that

 242       Apparent Magnitude         of the horizontal Moon.
 that where the sine of incidence was 50, the sines of refrac
 tion of the red and the violet rays were 77 and 78.               Hence
 q —p is to q + p          —  Sn as 1 to    55.     And therefore   AB :
                      /          AB
 xy   : : 55  : 1 ; or  xy = -jjt.'
    To elucidate this theorem by examples, let the diameter
 of  the object-glass of a telescope which is four inches be
 contracted to three inches, and afterwards to two ; then the
 diameters of the circles of aberration formed by parallel rays
            4              3                    2                        r
 will  be  —    = '072, — = .054,         and  —    = .036 respectively.
           55              55                  55
      The same Property       of Vision   demonstrated    otherwise.
    Thus, let n    represent   the   sine  of incidence, and p     and q
 the sines   of refraction, as before.
    The sine of incidence of every ray is to its sine of refrac
tion in a given ratio *.
    And the sine of incidence of the extreme ray PA varies
 with the aperture       of the lens : for n      becomes   less as  PA
approaches the axis of the lens Ef.
    Therefore the sines of refraction p           and q, and the angle
xAy,      and its subtense     xy,   increase or decrease with      AB:
consequently,       the image   of  the sun or moon upon the retina
increases    or decreases in magnitude with the pupil of the
eye.
    Now as the rays of artificial light are differently refrangi-
ole, it is evident from the given ratio of AB to xy, in which
they increase or decrease at the same time, that the image
of a candle formed in the focus of a convex lens decreases
with the aperture of the glass.           For the rays of the sun and
the light of a candle are both governed by the same law in
the formation of images in the focus of a lens ; but this law
does not obtain in the same degree in both objects, in con
sequence of the rays of the latter being in a more diverging
state than those of the former.
                             Experiment I.
    To prove the truth of this theory by experiment, I took
two double convex lenses, each four inches in diameter and
                         *
                            Newton's Optics, p. 64.
                                                               24 inches

            Apparent Maguitude              of the horizontal Moon.               243
 84 inches focal distance, and fixed              them in        a   frame close to
 each other in the same plane.   This instrument I placed in
 a perpendicular direction, with a white screen behind    to                     it,
 receive    the images       of    a  lighted candle that stood before                 it
 at some distance.          The      screen being moved until the two
 images     of   the candle were seen very distinctly                 upon it,
                                                                             they
 appeared        exactly of the same magnitude;                      but when the
 aperture    of one of    the glasses was contracted to an inch in
diameter, the image           of the candle formed               by   that lens ap
peared three or four times less than the image formed                        by the
other   ;   and as these two images were seen at the same time,
the eye could judge   more accurately of their dimensions
than of the apparent magnitude of the moon near the ho
rizon and on the meridian. But when moved the screen      I
until the circular spot of light or spectrum formed    the                   by
lens   of four inches       aperture measured          one inch in diameter,
the spectrum formed             by
                          the other lens measured only one
quarter of an inch and as the' screen was moved from the
                        ;
glasses     by
           slow degrees, thetspectrums decreased in the same
ratio, until two perfect images of the candle were formed.
                                Experiment       II.
   In order to exhibit      more exact representation of the
                                   a
phenomenon,       had
                   I    frame made to contain seven convex
                            a
lenses fixed in the form of semicircle. They were all of the
                                       a
same focal distance, but not of the same aperture.  The"two
largest apertures measured each 1-2 inches; these were to
represent the pupil of the eye when viewing the moon at
her rising or setting the two next to these had each an
                            ;
aperture    of 0-6 inches; the other two                  were   still less;     and
the single lens at the top           of   the curve had the least aperture,
to represent the pupil when the eye                  is   exposed     to the moon
on the meridian.
   This instrument being fixed in    perpendicular position,
                                                 a
with candle before
       a               as in the preceding experiment, and
                             it,
the screen brought to  certain distance within the focus of
                              a
the glasses, the Spectrurhs upon       appeared in the same
                                                it
ratio to each other as the glasses that formed them.   For                             a
representation of these spectrums see Plate VI.
                                            2                              Hence

244           Production       of Muriatic Acid and Soda
    Hence    the cause       of that variation which obtains in              the
apparent     magnitude of an object, is no longer a matter of
mere opinion; for it is an established             law in dioptrics, that the
image in the focus        of a convex lens increases with the aper
ture of the glass, and consequently, the picture of the moon
in the focus of the crystalline lens of the eye increases as the
pupil is enlarged.         I  am, sir,
                                             Your humble servant,
                                                              Ez. WALKER.
XLIV.      Extract of       a  Letter from M. LEOPOLD DE BUCK,
    of Milan,    to Professor PICTET, of Geneva, on the Pro
    duction of Muriatic Acid and Soda ly the Galvanic De
    composition   of Water *.
      SIR,                                                Milan, October 6, 1805.
A HAVE a few words to say on the subject of a fact which
at present occupies the attention of the Italian philosophers,
and    particularly Volta.          It is the experiment whereby we
 compose the muriatic acid and soda by means of the Gal
vanic action.        We     have been told that this experiment,              for
which     we are indebted to         Dr. Pacchiani,       has not succeeded
 at Geneva    f.    The following           is the method to make it suc
 ceed at all times     :
    Have two piles, the one near the other, and joined to
 gether at the base, in such a manner, that the positive pole
 of the one and the negative pole of the other shall be at the
 superior extremities of the two piles. Conduct a gold or
 platina wire from the negative pole (of zinc) into a tube A,
 slightly closed at the top by a piece of linen or a cork,"
 through which         the wire passes          in descending down about
 two-thirds of the tube.               Make another wire of the same
 substance also descend             from the positive pole (of copper)
 into a tube B, disposed         in  the same manner as the preceding.
 Plunge both of them into a drinking-glass containing di
 stilled water.      Oxygen will be disengaged in the tube B, and
        * From Bibliotheque    Britanrdi;ut, vol. in.
        f We do not believe it was ever tried      at Geneva.—  PICTET.
                                                                      hydrogen

                 ly    tlie Galvanic Decomposition          of Water.           245
hydrogen in the tube A. Allow the apparatus to work, and
a few hours will furnish unequivocal marks of the existence
of the muriatic acid in the tube B; which had allowed oxy
gen to escape, and of soda in the tube A, which retained it.
At  the end of ten or twelve hours, nitrate of silver, poured
into B drop by drop, precipitates itself abundantly.    If the
water of the two tubes is mixed together and evaporated, a
sensible quantity of muriate of soda is obtained.   If the ex
periment is made in the dark, the acid obtained in the tube B
is oxygenated. The citron yellow colour is very striking;
the smell of the acid cannot be mistaken ; light decomposes
it. The tubes must not be too narrow ; they ought to be
six or eight lines in diameter: without this precaution the
experiment will not succeed ; because the current, in order
to pass from B to A by the inferior orifice of the two lubes
plunged into a bad conductor, which is water, requires a cy
linder of a great enough diameter in order to carry, in a given
time, a sufficient quantity of electricity into the tubes. The
latter must not be too far from one another ; they will be at
a convenient distance in a.flat-bottomed drinking-glass.                       The
oxygenated acid soon attacks the gold.        evaporated,    If                  we
ought to have a fine purple                of Cass-ms* for        a residue.   Has
any thing been discovered for a long time more perplexing
or more remarkable ? The discovery of soda belongs to Mas-
cagny, of Siennaf.   I have the honour to be, &c.
                                                          LEOPOLD DE BUCH.
   • The author is here in an error.  There can be no precipitate of Cassim
formed without the presence of tin. — EDIT.
   f The production of soda by the Galvanic action is a new fact ; but that of
an acid (then supposed to be the nitrous acid) belongs to Cruickshank : he
announced it very learnedly in a memoir entitled " Additional Remarks on
Galvanic Electricity," published in Nicholson-s Iournal for 1800.  What
M.    dc Buch has here said relative to certain conditions of manipulation, with
out which    the experiment did not succeed, will perhaps explain the reason
why Messrs. Blot and Thenard met with no success in their attempts to repeat.
— PICT ET.
  The production of soda by the Galvanic decomposition of water, was an
nounced in The Philosophical Magazine so far back as the month of April
last ; that     is,
            exactly year ago.
                           a    M. de Buch-s letter given above dated in  is
October; and the number of M. Pictet-s Iournal, from which we have copied
it,   is   that for November last.     The first discovery, therefore, belongs to Mr.
Peel.        See our   ixist volume, p. 279. — EDIT.
                                                                  XLV. Twenty-

                                   [     946     ]
 XLV.        Twenty-seventh Communication from Dr. THORN
                TON, relative to Pneumatic Medicine.
                                 To    Mr. Tillock.
                                                No.   1, Hinde-etreet, Manchetter-
        DEAR SIR,                                      square, April 2, 1806.
 JL HE following cases     of catalepsy and epilepsy are of con
siderable     importance, and  merit a place in your philosophic
journal.
               Case   of Catalepsy        cured      ly Vital Air.
   Miss Lavinia       de   Yrujo,   lives at Mrs. Baylis-s,
                                        set.   10,
Brook Green House, Hammersmith.        She had a fit at three
years old : then her next attack was when five years old :
when eight, they would attack her two or three times a week.
She used to faint ; and her eyes became fixed, her fingers
clenched, and all her limbs completely rigid ; the eyes would
remain wide open and fixed : this would continue a quarter
of an hour. The last fit, before she applied to me, was in
October 1 804, when it came on at two and continued till
seven.  Mr. Flower was sent for, who judiciously employed
the usual restoratives, and ad vised, the young lady to be sent
home for further advice. She began the inhalation of a gal
lon of vital air, diluted, once a day, with the usual tonic
remedies; and has not had a fitoiow, September 16, 1805,
a whole twelvemonth.   She only took the vital air for three
weeks, and has not had any medicine, or the least occasion
for any, since.       She is now before me, with her mother,
perfectly well ; and is returned to her school at Hammer
smith.    The apothecary to the family, and several other
medical gentlemen, had pronounced, to the mother and fa-,
niily, this    case as one that never would be cured by art.
             Glservations on this Case           ly Dr.    Thornton.
   1.   These cases yield to the vital air when all other reme
dies fail.   The cause       is,
                           that the vital air gives energy to the
muscles, and thence to the nerves, taking off inordinate ac
tion from an undue balance of principles.
   2. And hence        that persons breathing much lad air
                      it   is,
become, on the contrary, convulsed.   am, &c.         I
                               ROBERT JOHN THORNTON.
                                                              XLVI.     Twenty-

XLVI.       Twenty-eighth Communication on Pneumatic Medi
   cine, sent   ly Dr. THORNTON, from Mr. HILL, Surgeon.
                Case  of Epilepsy    cured ly Vital Air.
V^HARLES WAYTE DARE, son of Mr. Dare, Dowgate Hill,
is a young man who appeared strong and healthy until
eleven years of age.         At that period, being very abruptly
informed that his father-s house was on fire, the shock
affected    him so much      -as  to throw    him   into an   epileptic
fit.    From this time       the paroxysms failed not       to return
every    three   or four weeks     ; and though, during the course
of   some    years,  the number of his fits did not much in
crease,    his bodily strength and mental faculties were con
siderably impaired. Several medical men were consulted on
the first attack, but the remedies prescribed by them gave
little or no relief.     On his becoming deaf in one ear, and
his eyesight failing him, whatever he learned at the Blue-
coat School was forgotten, owing to the violence of the fits.
His parents, therefore, thought it advisable to take him home.
At length, having        received some benefit from medical aid,
his father placed him on trial at Mr. Davison-s, in Sise-
lane ; but a fright soon bringing back all his former disor»
ders, he was obliged to return again to his family.            His fits
were now exceedingly violent, and their frequency increased
to a considerable number in twenty-four hours.              In conse
quence of this he became more deaf than ever, his vision
-weaker,     and his intellects so materially    injured that it was
impossible to leave him alone, for fear he should either fall
into the fire, or meet with some other calamitous accident.
In this truly deplorable      state he was put under my care early
in March      1 796.   The morning       previous to my seeing him,
his fits had been so particularly violent as to exhaust him
greatly, and his pulse beat above one hundred in a minute.
It was not without infinite difficulty that I could either per
suade him, or make him comprehend in what manner, to
inhale vital air from my apparatus ; and the general torpor
of his mind, extreme debility of body, and deafness, gave
                                  Q^4                              me

248     Twenty-eighth Communication         from Dr. Thornton,
me but faint hopes of his recovery.           However, after he had
inhaled a moderate dose of vital air, an unusual warmth dif
fused itself over his whole frame, accompanied with a con
siderable    degree  of perspiration. He afterwards passed the
whole day, and      the following night, without any return of
fits ; a circumstance       which   had  not happened for several
months.       The next morning he was tolerably cheerful ; his
hearing and vision less defective ; and his pulse more firm,
beating ten strokes less in a minute than the preceding day.
On having again         recourse  to the vital air, it revived him as
before, and      the second    day   passed   without a fit   :  but he
 found    a disposition to fulness in his head, and such a ten
dency to falling down during that day, that it would have
taken place, had not his own exertions prevented it. The
third morning, before he came to my house, he was attacked
with    a very slight fit.  Finding in him this tendency        to local
fulness in the head, I ordered cupping, and an opening me
dicine.     By paying due attention to the fulness in the head,
and keeping the bowels properly open, the pulse became re
gular; while the active effects of the vital air so invigorated
his constitution, that he not only lost his fits, but in six
weeks gradually regained his vision and hearing, and was
able to walk six or seven miles a day, without fatigue, or
any inconvenience whatever.           Some sultry weather coming
on in the month of May, he became nervous; had the head-
ach, and some slight degree of fever, after a fatiguing walk
to Hampstead ; and for the second time only experienced
a trifling relapse. I now directed him to be bled with leeches
on the temples, and to take the usual dose of opening me
dicine ; after which, as soon as the fever had subsided, -he
was to have recourse to the bark and vital air, at different
intervals, until the middle of July. He then became per
fectly well in health, strength, and spirits ; and in Decem
ber 1 797 his father engaged him as clerk to Messrs. Hop
kins   and   Lincoln, in Barbican, where       he now resides ; and,
not having had any return whatever of his former com
plaints, he is fully enabled to keep such accounts as require
a mind perfectly free from every degree of oppression or ir
ritation.
                                                                   "  To

                  relative to Pneumatic Medicine.               949
                           « To Mr. Hill.
       " SIR,
    " I can    with pleasure inform you, that my son, Charles
Wayte Dayre, has, by the blessing of God, with your kind
attention to him, and the help of vital air, received a very
great cure from his fits, deafness, and nervous complaints,
which had long affected him ; and they increased on him so
fast, that, when he applied to you, he had from sixteen to
twenty a day. He could not be left at any time, even a
quarter of an hour in a day. He has not had a fit these
eighteen    months,     or near two years.
                         "  I am, sir,
                      " Your   greatly  obliged humble servant,
                                               " Charles Dare."
               Observations   on this Case by  Mr. Hill.
    However the general appearance of this young man may
have been as to strength, some peculiarity of habit, as irri
tability of stomach and bowels, most likely had existed, and
was a predisposing cause of the complaint.              Be this as it
 may, any sudden surprise or misfortune will almost always
 produce some determination of blood to the head, more or
 less violent, in the strongest frame.          In this case, as in
 many others, it laid the foundation of very serious mischief.
 In length of time it exhausted the nervous energy ; and the
 powers of life, depending on an equable circulation, were
 reduced to extreme debility.         Under these circumstances no
 remedy, one short instance excepted, arrested the progress
of   the disease, still less gave hopes of a recovery.     The suc
 cess in this case was beyond my expectation ; for I was ap
 prehensive that the several organs of sense, as the eyes and
 ears, were become paralytic from some organic defect in the
brain, owing to the long continuance, violence, and fre
 quency of the attacks.        Contrary to my conjecture, how
 ever, the patient was relieved        much in the same manner    as
 the subject    of the preceding case ; and, as the same conse
 quences    followed,   nearly the same reasoning applies to both ;
                                                                viz.

  250                On the Ekclrogene       of Schmidt,
 viz.   some accumulation in the system being removed                  by the
 chemical     union    of vital air in the blood, the secretions by
 the skin and      kidneys being promoted, and the energy and
 strength   of   the nerves being restored, then tonic remedies
 recovered    the chylopoietic viscera to their due functions.
    I  cannot avoid particularly observing, that this lessening
 of   the determination      of blood to the head, is a fact of great-
 importance to all people subject to fits or nervous head-achs.
XLVII.      On the Electrogene       of SCHMIDT. By          Count  STERN-
    BERG,     Vice-president     of  the   Electoral Regency of Ra-
    tisbon*.
A.    GREAT deal has been said, for        a year past,    of M. Schmidt,
a chemist     of Breslau, who insists that          he has      merited the
prize of sixty thousand francs, which ought to have been
decreed to the author of the best discovery upon Galvanism.
The following       is a succinct   account of what has been pub
lished on the subject, extracted from a letter addressed to
M. Nauche, the physician, at Paris, by count Sternberg.
   M.    Schmidt thinks he has discovered              a body capable of
generating     electricity, which    he  calls   ekctrogene.      This body
serves, with caloric, to combine the two constituent princi
ples of the air— oxygen and azote.              Its affinity with them is
weakened by the presence of the solar rays. The latter aug
ment, on the contrary, its affinity with water : this is the
reason why, in spring, electrogene partly quits the air to
unite with water,, elevated by means of caloric, in the form
of elastic vapours.
   The    degrees   of intensity of the union of         electrogene    with
air and water are very variable, and thence proceed                  the va
riations in the elasticity of the atmosphere.
   The    sea, by surcharging      the atmosphere       with    aqueous va
pours, absorbs electrogene, which endeavours                to maintain an
equilibrium.      For  a contrary reason, the earth tends to give the
air a part  of  its electrogene.     This alternate combination and
              * From Biiliolh. Phys. Economique,  BO. 4. an 14.
                                                           disengagement

                      On Sonorous Vibrations.                         *51
disengagement produce,           by their succession,          winds  and
clouds.
   AH   the metals    contain electrogene, and they do not oxi
date but in regard to their affinity with it.             It is the cause
of crystallization by the dry method.
   The weakening of the affinity of electrogene with the bases
of the air, by meaus of the solar rays, gives birth to vegeta
tion. Animal life is also attributed to electrogene.                    It
enters with oxyen into the blood of animals by respiration ;
it is decomposed by this fluid, and its elementary base con
stitutes, in the brain and the nervous system, the principle
of irritability.
   M.   Schmidt attributes still other effects to this new being;
but he does not distinguish them well enough from those of
caloric, oxygen, and attraction. His theory, although curi
ous, is not sufficiently supported by facts to entitle it to
much attention.
XLVIII.      Letter  of M. Orsted, Professor of Philosophy at
    Copenhagen,    to Professor      Pictet of Geneva, upon Sono
   rous Vibrations     *.
     SIR,                                        Copenhagen, May 26, 1785.
 J. he  impartial interest which you take in every thing tend
ing to accelerate the progress of science, has made me
desirous, for a long time past, of establishing a correspon
dence with you.        I take the opportunity of a traveller going
to Geneva, to deliver to you the results of some of my re
searches in physics.         I have chosen as the subject of my
present letter, the experiments        I  have repeatedly     made, upon
the effects produced in the interior of solid bodies during
the propagation of motion.             I have been led to these re
searches   by both antiuit and modern observations upon
sound.     Every body is acquainted with the interesting dis
                 * From Bibliotheque  Brilannique, vol. kx.
                                                                   covery

252                    On Sonorous Pibrations.
covery   of the  celebrated Chladni, who taught the art of pro
ducing    certain   figures, by covering with sand plates of
metal or of glass, and then rubbing them upon the edge with
a violin bow.      The sand is put in motion by the effect of
the oscillations of the sonorous body, and the grains of it,
quitting certain parts of the surface, heap themselves up upon
the others, by forming lines and figures of different forms.
The lines into which the grains of sand heap themselves up,
are without doubt the points      of rest between  the portions   of
the surface put    in vibration by the rubbing of   the bow upon
the edges of the plates.
   Modern philosophers think they have found, in these curi
ous results, a confirmation of the opinion which tends to
exclude those internal vibrations, formerly supposed to be
the cause   of  the phenomena     of sound,  and to refer the latter
merely to those oscillations which are visible and appreciable
by their mechanical effects,     of which    the experiment upon
sand gives an example.
   It appears to me, however, that the antient hypothesis has
been    abandoned     too easily, at least my experiments have
rather led me towards that hypothesis, than removed me
from it. The following are the observations which these
experiments have suggested to me :
   It is allowed that in common air, a fluid eminently elastic,
a sudden compression is followed by a reaction which pro
duces    a   dilatation,   which   immediately compresses        the
neighbouring particles, and the effects of a first concussion
propagate themselves in this manner to an indefinite extent.
But I do not see why this does not take place also in elastic
solids, when they are made to produce a sound. The ex
periments of Chladni, although in other respects very curi
ous, are not proper to prove the small vibrations which con
cur to form the undulations from which the figures in ques
tion result, and for the knowledge of which we ane indebted
to him. Sand, which is made use of by him, is too large
grained to indicate the nature of the movement of the solid
molecular which tremble under it ; and what is still worse,
these grains are elastic, so that they do not remain where
                                                               they

                         On Sonorous   Vibrations.                 253
they fall, but fly about ; this hinders them from pursuing a
regular progressive movement, like that of sonorous undula
tions.      It was on this account that, on varying my experi
ments,     I   thought of substituting in the place of sand, a more
attenuated matter not possessing the inconveniences I have
mentioned ; this was semen lycoptdii, or the seeds of club-
moss.       After having covered a plate of metal or glass with
this substance, I tried to produce a sound in the manner of
Chladni, and in an instant I saw the dust distribute itself in
to   a number of little regular tumuli, which put themselves
in motion at their extremities, or formed the figures discover
ed by this naturalist.        They always range themselves in the
form of a curve, the convexity of which is in proportion to
the point touched by the violin bow, or towards the point
 which has an analogous situation : the nearer that each of
 these    little heaps is to these points, its height is the more
 considerable ; this gives to the whole a remarkable regularity.
 The experiments of M. .Chladni -are astonishing at first
 sight, on account of the regularity of the figures produced
 by a single stroke       of the bow, which     appears as  if done by
             -
 magic.         My experiments have not the same charm ; but
 perhaps      they are more instructive, on account of the com
 parative slowness of my process, which admits of their effects
 being more advantageously studied.              We observe that the
  interior »l the small elevations formed in my experiments
  continue in motion during the continuance of the sound.
  The duration of       these vibrations, although very short, is ap
  preciable     on  plates of three or four inches diameter : it is
  longer when plates pf a larger diameter are employed.                I
  often made use of a disc of metal of six inches diameter : in
   this case I always saw the small elevations- change their ap
   pearance      at different epochs   of the duration   of  the sound.
   At  one moment        the height increasei,   and at another it di
   minishes,      and   the  dust has the appearance of arranging
   itself in small globules which- roll one above another : we
   easily perceive     that all these phenomena are still very com
   plicated. The movement of the grains is in part vertical, in
   part horizontal ; the horizontal movement is composed of
    two others ; one of the forces impels the grains forward, and
                                                                     the

    254                   On Sonorous   Vibrations*
   the other drives them to the two sides.        I was anxious to ex
   amine,   as minutely as possible, each of these movements by
   itself, and the following is what I remarked. I held a square
   of glass in such a manner that two or three of the edges of
   jt  were in contact   with my ringers. I struck the edge which
    I  did not touch, with a piece of smooth wood, in such
   a manner that      every point received    the shock   at the same
   instant.     In this  case,   the powder arranges itself in lines
   parallel to the edge       struck upon.     These lines are rarely
   straight, because these edges have always irregularities ; the
   straightest I ever saw were produced upon an iron rule,
   struck with a smooth piece of the same metal 3 in order to
   the better success of this experiment, it is necessary that the
   square or the rule should rest upon a smooth table.          If I do-
   not strike the blow upon the whole edge, but only upon
   some of its points, other lines are formed parallel to the
  direction of the blow, and perpendicular to the edge struck.
  These lines seem to be composed of a crowd of small eleva
  tions, less regular than those produced when plates covered
  with the dust are struck with the fiddle bow. This experi
  ment succeeds with difficulty when the whole of the plate is
  allowed to rest upon a table, because this circumstance pre
  vents us from striking a good blow.            In short, if I struck
  the plate in a direction perpendicular to its plane, the dust
  arranged    itself in little regular heaps.     In the former case
 the undulations proceed forward ; in the second case, they
 take place both in a forward and a lateral direction ; in the
 third case, they proceed in every direction, because the com
 pression produced by the blow perpendicular to the plane,
 propagates itself as well horizontally as vertically.            The
 tone    produced in the first case is very low ; that of the
 second is much more elevated ; but that of the third is still
 much more elevated ; and it is the only one which deserves
 to be called, a tone, or a sound appreciable in the musical
scale.
      One would suppose that the change produced in elastic
bodies^ by the communication of motion, could scarcely be
limited to the simple mechanical displacement of the part,
hut that in this modification it ought to have some other
                                                                 more

                             On Sonorous Vibrations.                                     255
                          Every kind of friction produces not
                                                                '
more intimate action.
only heat, but electricity also. De la Place, and Biot, have
already attracted the attention of philosophers to the first of
these phaenomena  ; I am of opinion that the latter of them
requires much  more  attention.  I always found in my ex
periments that sand, or dust, adheres much more co those
parts to which the movement of the sonorous bodies had
fixed   it,     than   it   did to the other parts.           I   have often thrown
fresh sand over             a   plate   of   glass,    upon which        I    had   already
produced figure.a   shook gently after having reversed
                                I            it                                               it,
and  I  always remarked that the sand which formed the
figure remained adhering, while the other part detached                                   it
self.       The     adherence           of grains finer      than those        of   sand      is
very remarkable.    also discovered, with the assistance of
                             I
Coulomb's electrometer, indications of electricity     those                        in
plates which had emitted    sound   but  haveanot   repeated
                                                       ;      I
these experiments sufficiently                    to enable me to detail them.
I   discovered on the above   occasion, that the edges and
angles of bodies act upon Coulomb's electrometer almost
always     and
            ;     propose to myself a new course of experi
                     I
ments upon this subject. The celebrated Ritter, to whom
I had communicated my experiments upon the part which
electricity acts in the phaenomena of sound, had long ago
discovered          that the electrical pile           of Volta     is   capable    of pro
ducing sound, when    shock    received from
                                   a          in the ears.
                                                  is                     it
In work about to appear under the title of " A System of
    a
Electrical Bodies," this great philosopher makes     clear                          it
that   body acquires positive electricity
        a                                 compression, and     by
negative by dilatation.  Thus we may say, that there are in
each sound as many alternatives of electricity, positive and
negative, as there are oscillations but the union of two elec
                                                       ;
tricities produces     commotion a    thus there are in one
                                                       :
sound as many extremely weak electrical commotions as
there are oscillations.                  Each of these insulated commotions
would       be absolutely               insensible     ;   but when received             in    a
very great number, in   period too small to distinguish the
                                        a
one from the other, they always produce     sensible effect,        a
especially since positive electricity renders the organ more
sensible for the negative than     was before, and vice versa.
                                                  it
                                                                                         The

  256       Use  of the Sutures in Ike Skulls of Animals.
 The sensible    effect of the union of all these insensible com
 motions is sound.         I confess that these       ideas    of    M.  Ritter
 appear contradictory to all the received opinions on the organ
 of hearing   ; but it must also be confessed        that our knowledge
 of all  the organs       of sense is as yet imperfect.-             I  am   of
 opinion, however, that the theory of M. Ritter agrees per
 fectly well with the antient hypotheses. As for my own
 experiments, they may be easily repeated by any person, and
 some one perhaps may discover more than                  I  have    here de
 scribed.
 XLIX.      On Ike Use      of the Sutures      in the Skulls        of Ani-
                    mals.    By   Mr. B. GIBSON*.
 JL HE full use    of  the singular    junction of the         bones    of the
skull which is called suture, has, from the earliest periods of
anatomy and surgery, attracted the attention and eluded -the
researches   of the physiologist.          To this remarkable feature
in osteogeny, in     a great measure       peculiar to a certain period
of life, many uses have been attributed. Some of these are
totally erroneous ; such as that for allowing the transpiration
of moisture, to keep the brain cool and fit for thinking ; for
giving a more strict adhesion of the dura mater to the inner
surface of the skull ; for admitting a more free communica
tion by blood-vessels between the external and internal parts
of the head ; or for affording interstices, that the bones may
be pushed asunder by the growth of the brain, lest that or
gan should be cramped in its growth, in consequence of the
comparatively slow growth of the bones of the skull.
   Other uses attributed to the sutures are merely slight ad
vantages derived from their structure, which are enjoyed in
early infancy, or     till adult life, but gradually        cease after that
period.    Thus    at the time     of birth    the loose union         of the
hones of   the skull accommodates the shape             of the head to the
figure of the different parts of the cavity through which it
passes.    At adult age, when the sutures are fully formed,
           * From Manchtster Transactions,   second scries,  vol. i.
                                                                         they

                 Use   of the Sutures in               the Skulls   of Animals.              257
 they may occasionally check the progress           may be                   (if
                                                                              I
 allowed the expression)  of    fracture nearly spent; — or
                                                      a
 vibrations^ communicated to the bones of the skull, will be
 propagated with less force to the brain, in consequence of
 the bones being separated at the sutures.         however,             It    is,
 abundantly evident, that these are not the main purposes
 for which the sutures are formed     otherwise they would    J
 not begin to be obliterated at period of life when they  a
 would   perform these offices more usefully than ever.
Consistent with this remark, we shall find that the true pur
pose for which they are formed, and the particular process
with which they are connected,      fully completed before    is
their obliteration takes place.
      When
         we take    view of the mode of junction between
                               a
many  bones and  parts of bones in the human body, which
do not admit of motion, we find that with little exception
they all agree in this particular   that sooner or later the car
                                                      ;
tilage or periosteum, which once was interposed,        obliterat_            is
ed,  and these  different portions, or entire bones,- coalesce.
  .The separate portions, which originally compose                                  the ver
tebrae, are early in thus uniting: after these the                                  sides     of
the lower        jaw;    at   a   later period the epiphysis            of   a   cylindrical
boneis united to its body               :    and still later the bones        of   the skull
usually coalesce, and the sutures are obliterated. Other bones,
as those of the face, which have no motion and sustain little
weight, are irregular in this respect   sometimes uniting, but;
generally remaining   distinct to the end of long life.             a
  The original formation of the osseous system in several
distinct pieces, respects principally its speedy ossification at
an early period of life, and its future convenient extension,
till has arrived as its full growth and we may consider
      it                                                      ;                               it
asa  general principle, that where two parts of one bone are
separated        from each other                  by    an intervening cartilage, or
two distinct bones merely                        by   periosteum, at that part osse
ous materials          are added            to increase their length             or extend
their superficies.             This     we shall    find takes place, whether
the   junction         be effected          by comparatively smooth surfaces,
as between        the body         of   a   bone and its epiphysis or between
                                                                         ;
  Vol.     24.    No.    95.   April        1806.             R                             the.

258          Use of the Rulures in  the Skulls  of Animals.
the bones of the skull by jagged sutures.          Hence it appears
that the bones of the body generally are increased in length
or extent, not by .a uniform extension of the whole sub
stance, but by an addition of bony matter in some particular
part.
     Thus    the body  of a cylindrical bone is lengthened by ad
dition to each end.        This we might conclude would be the
 case,    from considering the part in which its ossification
commences : as this commences in a middle point and pro
ceeds to each extremity, it is natural to suppose that its
 growth still goes on in the same direction, or continues at
 the extremities. That this is the case we know, not by
 reasoning alone, but by a direct experiment.            Mr. Hunter
 sunk two small pieces of lead in the middle of the tibia or
 shin bone of a pig, and measured accurately the distance be
 tween them       : on examining     the animal some time after
 wards, it appeared, that though the bone had increased con
 siderably in length, the pieces of lead still remained at the
 same distance from each other that they were before.            From
 this experiment we learn, that       a cylindrical bone is not ex
 tended in its middle, but is lengthened by addition to its ex
  tremities, where "Ihe body of the bone is joined to its epi-
  physis; the chief intention of the epiphysis being to allow
  the intervention    of a vascular organ, which may convenient
  ly deposit bony materials, without interfering with the joint
  itself.
      As cylindrical   bones are lengthened at their -extreme parts,
  we are led by analogy to conclude, that the same general
  plan is pursued in the extension of the flat bones of the
  body : and although \\e have no direct experiment by which
  this has been proved, there are circumstances which leave
  little doubt but they are extended by addition to their edges.
  Thus,     to take the parietal bone as an exam   pie; as ossification
   begins in a central point and extends towards the circumfe
   rence, it is probable that, to the completion of the process, it
   continues to go on in the same direction ; and the same
   circumstance taking place in every bone of the cranium, it
   is probable, that even after the whole of the brain is incased
                                                                      in

          Use   of the Sutures in    the Skulls  of Animals.      259
in bone, the addition is still made at the edge of each, and
that the general enlargement originates where they are all
mutually joined by the sutures. Of this process I had a very
striking illustration some years ago. In a young subject,
from what cause I know not, the deposition of osseous
matter had been suddenly increased a short time before death.
 It was in different stages of progress, but had taken place in
all the bones of the body which I preserved ; in some par
tially, in others generally.         In all, the new osseous matter
was elevated above the level- of the bone, upon which it was
placed.     In some parts of the parietal bones it was only in
its commencement,          and put on the appearance of a net
work, similar to that which may be observed in the same
bones at an early period of their formation.           In other parts
the meshei of the net-work were more or less filled up ; in
others again completely, so as to put on the uniform appear
ance of solid bone. The same reticulated appearance was
evident on the edges of all the bones of the skull, where
they form the sutures, and at the extremities of the cylindri
cal bones, between the body and           epiphysis.   The same ap
pearance of increased deposition was seen on the surface of
 the cylindrical bones, with this difference, that the meshes
were not circular, but oblong squares ; so as to put on more
 of the   striated   appearance.       In   some   parts, the newly
secreted bone was easily separable from the general mass,
and formed a thin layer externally, affording one of the best
 proofs I have met with, of the increase of cylindrical bones
 in thickness by deposition externally, whilst a corresponding
 internal absofption goes on.          From the striking similarity
of appearance      on  the  surfaces   and edges of the bones, we
 may safely     conclude,    that the same process      of deposition
 was going on in both, and may thence infer, that the bones
of the skull are increased in extent by the deposition of
osseous matter      at their edges,    or where they are joined to
 each other by suture.       This fact points out to us, in a great
 measure, the real use of this peculiar mode of junction.
    In order that the bones of the skull may be increased in
 extent, it is necessary that they should he retained at a cer
 tain distance from each other;        that the periosteum   with its
                                   R   2                      vessels

  260          Use    of the Sutures in      the Skulls   of Animals.
  vessels     may pass down between them, free from compres
  sion, and secrete the osseous matter. At the same time, the
 thin   bones composing the upper part                 of  the   skull, resting     as
  an arch upon its basis, must be united together so firmly, as
 not to be separated by common degrees of violence.                               For
  this purpose, projecting points from the external surface of
  each bone           are reciprocallv         received     into corresponding
 niches     ;   which only penetrate through one half of the
 thickness of the skull, and form an irregular kind of dove
 tailing.
     Two      advantages arise from this structure being superficial,                  .
 and    confined to the external              table  of  the   skull.    The pro-
 jectinc; points from each side, resting upon the solid surface
 of  the internal table           of  the opposite bone, can          resist   more
effectually any violence which might tend to force the
bones inwards ; and the internal part of the skull presents,
by this means, a smooth surface to the coverings of the
brain    ;    for    internally       no appearance       of    a  jagged suture
is seen.
     From this view of the subject we see, that the sutures of
 the human skull, by their peculiar formation, at once unite
the bones together, and so far separate them, as to allow the
 interposition of           a vascular    organ by which their superficies
 is gradually increased to its greatest extent.*                    This explana
                                                                                 tion
    * Silirr this
                  paper wa* written in the year ISOO, I have found, that a simi
lar opinion was published by Professor Soemmerring in 1794, in his valu
able work, " De corporis htimani fabrica."            To him, therefore, any credit
which mav belong to the primary suggestion of this use of the sutures is due.
As his opinion, however, has been little noticed by anatomists generally, and
is placed in a clearer point of view by the facts which suggested this further
explanation of it to me, it ha'j not been thought improper to give this essay a
place in these     Memoirs.       But whilst the reader will see, by the following
quotation, the near resemblance         between the opinion of Professor Soemmer
ring and that which 1 have brought forward, 1 hope the character of plagiarist
or compiler will not be attributed to me.
    " Usus horum sic sese habentium terminorum ossa cranii inter bene liquet.
    " Incrementum ambitus calvariit levant, ni enim inter ossa capitis moi post
partun suturx intcrponerentur, haec crescere non possent, nisi alia ratione
natura rem institucrct.        Tali igitur modo incrementum calvarix cum incre.
mento reliquorum        ossium  convenit ; initio enim suturis, vel potius lineiscar.
tilaginosis ossa  iii locis  cooglutinantur, verura tamen non nisi iu embrionibut
                                                                                   ad

              Use   of the Sutures in         the Skulls    of Animals.          261
 tion of the use of sutures comprehends and accounts for those
 concomitant circumstances, which were considered by older
 anatomists as their real use; and, as far as I can see, is not
 contradicted by any fact connected with them.
     If it be asked, for instance, why at the sutures there is                       a
 stronger adhesion of the dura mater internally, and perios
 teum externally, than in other part's of the skull ? the answer
 is, that these membranes with their vessels are continued in
 to   the sutures,      to form conjointly             the secretory     organ by
 which the bones          are extended.
     If it be asked,     why there is a greater vascularity or an ap
 pearance of blood-vessels passing through the sutures? itjs
 perfectly consistent with this opinion to answer, that the in
 crease of blood goes to this secretory organ, for the purpose
 of the extension of the bones.
     The explanation here offered accounts also for the general
 obliteration of the sutures after a certain period of life ; for,
 the bones having then arrived at their full size, the organ for
 the    secretion of osseous              matter is no longer needed             ;  it
 shrinks and is absorbed, and the bones gradually coalesce ;
 by which a further advantage is derived, that of an accession
 of strength      to the cranium at large.
     If any additional        argument be necessary in support of this
 opinion, I may also notice the striking analogy which sub
 sists between the separation of one bone of the skull from
 another by        a  suture, and that separation               which    exists be
ad fonticulos',   ut aiunt, hxc     tinea  notabili latitudine, observatur.   Ossibus
cnim capitis hie iocorum cerebro cresccute, placide quasi diductis, cartilago
 augctur, latior evasura, nisi pristina pars simul in os mutaretur, iude osta
 calvaria.. eodersi modo, quo ossa longa diductis epiphysibus, vel quod uuum
idemque est, marginibus crescert*, liquet, etsi in ossibus, longis sulura epi
physes inter et diaphysin non crispetur.                ^
   " Quo junior igiturinfans, eo minus crispa et implexa sntura, vel, ut rectius
loquar, tinea cartilagiuosa angu»ta, ossajungens, observatur. Quum vero aucta
aetate ossa, crescente cerebro, diducuntur, corun..qiie crVsitudo, adposita cum
interna^ turn externa     p.jtissi.num tabul*', (interna: enim incrementnm cuius
absolutum videtur) massa ossea, augetur, non potest nou esse, quin hac crispa
sutnrx forma, quum qutdem nasci coepit, extcrnA in superficie tamdiu, nu.^ca.
tur, donee tandem ipsa ea quam maxime i.npediat, quo minus cerebrum cal.
variam ulterius diducere possit,       quod pubertatis tempore accidit. Rarissime
ha:c ossificatio ad aetatem viritem usquedctinetur."      — SoemmcrringDe corporis
humani fabrica, pag. 212.
                                        R   3                                 tween

262         Existence
                 of Phosphate of Magnesia in Bones.
tween the body of a cylindrical bone and its epiphysis. They
each remain only for a certain length of time ; each allows
the interposition of a secretory organ ; and both begin to be
obliterated, when the bones with which they are connected
have completed              their growth,     and their continuance is           no
longer necessary.
L.      On the Existence         of Phosphate of Magnesia in Bones.
                                By M. FOURCROY *. ->
-L HE discovery of a new earthy phosphate in the bones of
animals, is a fact in the history of the physical sciences im
portant enough to deserve a place in every journal calculat
ed to promote improvements               in natural history. This dis
covery has been made               these two years by M. Vauquelin,
and myself, in the course of              a very extensive    inquiry under
taken upon animal concretions, and                    of which we have from
time to time given an account to the public.
   Having discovered, 1st, the ammoniacal magnesian phos
                                                                                      -
phate among the materials of the calculi in the human
bladder, and         among the intestine bezoars of animals; and
2d!y,      the phosphate    of magnesia in human urine, and the
property which characterizes                it,   in this liquid, of passing to
the state     of   a   triple salt very crystallizable,         at the moment
that the urine becomes             ammoniacal          by   its spontaneous de
composition;           it    appeared to us important to inquire            this
                                                                            if
magnesian salt, unknown in animal matters until our                              in
quiries, was not to be found in some animal organs and we               ;
began our inquiries upon bones, -the analogy                     of which with
the urinary        receptaclti     is   so well     known      by   physiologists.
The analysis of         these organs seemed to be brought to perfec
tion   ;   and yet     the new experiments to which
                                                  we submitted
the substance     under examination, enabled us to discover this
salt   by   methods and processes much more complicated than
those which          have been hitherto employed in this species                 of
analysis.
            *   From Annale* du Museum efHistoire XatuTclle, vol. vi.
                                                                                 la

           Existence      of Phosphate of Magnesia in                Bones.         263
     In order       to procure the magnesian phosphate in an osseous
base, the bones          of oxen,        after being calcined white and well
pulverized, must be treated with an equal quantity of sul
phuric acid ; after being allowed to rest five or six days the
mixture      is diluted,               wilh ten times and afterwards
                                   at first
with    five times its        weight of water. The liquor is drained
every time  ammonia in excess is poured into all the liquors
                ;
mixed together; and as these liquors, which were formerly                                  .
supposed     to be the phosphoric acid, contain                      phosphate of
lime and phosphate of magnesia dissolved in the phosphoric
acid, in proportion as the ammonia saturates the acid, a mix
ture of calcareous             phosphate            and   ammoniacal magnesian
phosphate is        precipitated.             This precipitate when           washed
with   a   little cold distilled water is treated with                a ley   of   pure
                                                                                           .
potash, by boiling them together until no more ammonia
is disengaged.    The ammoniacal magnesian phosphate is
decomposed    by this process.    The ammonia volatilizes,
the phosphoric acid unites itself to the potash, and the salt
resulting from it remains in solution ; the free magnesia de
posits itself in powder, and mixes with the phosphate of
lime at the bottom of the liquor.     The latter is now drawn
off clear,the precipitate is washed, and boiling distilled vine
gar is poured upon             it,
                        which dissolves the magnesia without
touching the calcajeous phosphate       the magnesian acetate
                                                          ;
is   decomposed          by   carbonate        of    soda,    and we have the car
bonate of magnesia, which     dried, .of which the weight
                                              is                                      is
determined, and which    dissolved in the sulphuric acid in
                                        is
order to obtain  in the state of sulphate of magnesia, the
                         it
form under which      more generally and more certainly re
                              it   is
cognised.
     By repeating this             process    a    great nun\ber   of limes, in     the
first place to ascertain the discovery of the phosphate of
magnesia in the bones of animals, and secondly to appre
ciate the proportion of                 it,
                              we ascertained that the acetic acid
always dissolves    little lime with the magnesia, and that this
                         a
lime could not proceed from any thing else than the decom
position of    small portion of the calcareous phosphate
                     a
 bymeans of potash    thus, in spite of the laws of affinities
                               :
hitherto determined,                it   appeared evident that potash              sepa-
                                              R
                                              4                                    rates

CG4         ExLttfice of Phosphate of Magnesia in Bones.
rates     the lime of the phosphoric acid ; but it only separates
a very small quantity from                          it,   and only when potash                     is   em
ployed          by   itself in    a     great quantity, while lime takes the pot
ash from the phosphoric acid entirely and completely.                                                   We
have here the effect   of the power of masses, called in by
 Berlhollet  in order to explain some apparent anomalies in
 the action of the elective attractions.
     Ox        bones calcined contain about                        a   40th part        of phosphate
of magnesia.
     Those of horses and sheep yielded   36th part.                a
     Those of the feathered creation, about 40th part.                       a
     We                           from any of the above,
               were not able to extract,                                                                  a
quantity any thing equal to that contained   human bones.                        in
  We have to remark on this occasion, that ox bones/which
we had most frequently and most exactly analysed, appeared
to contain the following materials                             :
                  Solid gelatine                                                      51-O
                  Phosphate of lime                                               37-    7
                  Carbonate of lime                                                   10-0
                  Phosphate of magnesia                                                1-3
   The phosphate of magnesia existing    animals manifestly             in
arises from their food.   Not only have we found this salt
in wheat, barley, oats, and vetches, but we discovered   iu                                         it
all the grasses named  Linnaeus cerealia, by
                                           the proportion                        in
of centiemc and half of their weight which
     a                              a              almost                 ;                  is
double the quantity of the phosphate of lime which they
contain. Without doubt, some relation subsists bctw een this
fact and         those concretions                  found in the intestines of ani
mals, which             arc formed              of ammoniacal magnesiau                            phos
phate.
     Itnot impossible to conceive why human bones do not
          is
contain phosphate of magnesia, although this salt exists
more abundantly than the phosphate of lime in flour, &c.
It   appears that                       evacuated         by      urines in which we
                                                               those
                               it, is
                          it
have      discovered                    while       it    does not e.xist in the urine
of   such animals as throw                     it   off   by   the skin or the intestines.
     Without pushing                    too    far the influence                 of chemical dis
coveries        upon the animal oscowomy,                          made          by   the analysis       of
                                                          3                                       various

                    Notices respecting     New Books.                 265
Tarious substances, we cannot pass over, in each of these
discoveries, immediate applications, which ought no longer
to be neglected.        Physiology must necessarily derive great
advantages from attending properly to such results.
                 LI.   Notices respecting New Books.
A   Treatise    of Mechanics, Theoretical,         Practical,   and DC--
   scriptive.      By OLINTHUS GREGORY, of the Royal Mi
   litary Academy, Woolwich.              2 Vols. 8iio, and a Volume
   of  Plates.     Published    ly Kearsley.
Ax is with much satisfaction we announce the publication
of a work of this nature, which has been long wanted.
   The first volume        is devoted chiefly to theory     ; the second
is practical and descriptive.          The theoretical part is divided
into five books, and these are subdivided . into chapters, as
the nature of the several subjects seemed to require.
   Book I. is appropriated to the subject of statics, and is
subdivided into six chapters.            It commences,      as indeed do
all the books, with definitions            and   preliminary remarks ;
which     are succeeded       by a  statement and illustration of the
Newtonian       laws of motion and rest,         which are assumed      as
fundamental        principles    to guide the subsequent        inquiries.
                                                                           "
The nature of statical equilibrium, with           the composition and
resolution of forces, are then discussed            ; forces being con
sidered,    1 . as  disposed   in  one   plane,  and   concurring in the
same point : 2. as directed to one point, but not confined to
one plane : 3. as situated in one plane, but applied to diffe
rent points of a body : 4. as not confined to one plane, and
directed to various points of a body. The remaining chapters
in this book      treat  of  the centre    of gravity, and the centro-
baryc method ; the simple          machines,     or, as they are usually
called, the mechanical powers ; the strength and stress of
timber and other materials           ; and   the equilibrium,     tension,
and    pressure     of cords, arches,       and domes.     The minuter
topics connected with these general             points   of inquiry  can
not well be specified here.                *
                                                                      The

266               Notices respecting  New Books.
    The second book      relates to dynamics.     It comprehends
six chapters; treating of motion, uniform and variable; the
descent and ascent of heavy bodies in vertical lines; the
motion of projectiles, with observations on ricochet-firing ;
descents along inclined planes and curves;       the vibrations of
pendulums, and the curve of swiftest descent ; central forces ;
the rotation of bodies about fixed axes, and in free space,
with theorems relative to the centres of oscillation, gyration,
percussion, spontaneous rotation, &c; the physico-mathe-
matical theory of percussion, nearly as first delivered in Don
George Juan's Examen Maritimo ; and the motion of ma
chines, and their maximum effects ; closing with some re
marks showing in what points of view machines ought to
be considered by those        who would    labour beneficially for
their improvement.
    Book III. is devoted to the subject of hydrostatics.       It is
divided into four chapters, — on the pressure of non-elastic
fluids ; the determination of the specific gravities of solid
and fluid bodies ; the construction of hydrometers or areo
meters; the equilibrium, stability, and oscillations of float
ing bodies, with a particular reference to ships and canal
boats; and on the phenomena of attraction in capillary
tubes.    This book contains      an extensive and correct table
of specific gravities.
    In the fourth book  are given some  of  the most useful propo
sitions and theorems relative to hydrodynamics. It comprises
four chapters.     1. On the discharge of fluids through aper
tures   in the bottom and sides of vessels,       and on spouting
fluids  : 2.  An account of experiments     made by different phi
 losophers (as Bossut, Venluri, Eytelwein, Young, Vince,
 &c.) on the discharge of water through apertures and tubes;
 and the practical deductions from those experiments : 3. On
 the effect  of water upon the motion of water-wheels : 4. An
 account of Mr. Smeaton's experiments on water-wheels.
     The fifth book, which terminates the first volume, is on
 pneumatics, and contains six chapters. The subjects staled
 and discussed in this book are, the equilibrium of elastic
 fluids ; the measurement of altitudes with the barometer and
 thermometer ; the motion of air when the equilibrium of
                                                           pressure

                    Notices respecting New Books.                    267
pressure    is removed;       the theory of air-pumps, and pumps
for raising water;        the resistance of fluids to bodies moving
in them ; and results of experiments on the               resistance   of
fluids.
    The  second volume        of this work, which, as before men
tioned, is     chiefly practical, commences with an introduc
tion occupying about eighty pages, and comprising general
remarks, rules, and directions, — on the construction and
simplification      of machinery; on rotatory, rectilinear, and
reciprocating motions; on bevel-gaer, and proportioning
the number of teeth ; on friction and the rigidity of cords,
wilh the experiments of Vince, Coulomb, &c., and an ex
ample of the power of the capstan, allowing for friction and
the stiffness of cords; on water and wind as movers of ma
chinery, with Smeaton-s rules relative to windmills ; on the
strength of fired gunpowder ; on steam as a mover of ma
 chinery, with the theorems and results of Bettancourt and
 Dalton ; and on the strength of men and horses, according
 to the best and most accurate observations.           The remaining
 part of this volume is appropriated to the description of a
 variety of mechanical contrivances, in number exceeding an
 hundred and fifty. These are arranged alphabetically, that
 they may be consulted with most convenience ; and several
 of them      relate   to   machines and     instruments    which    have
 never before been publicly described.
    In the exposition of the theory the author has generally
 proceeded by a series of connected propositions and depen
 dent corollaries ; those in each chapter having a manifest re
 lation   to each     other, and flowing naturally from the same
 source.      He has avoided the two extremes, — a fatiguing
 prolixity of detail, which leaves nothing to be filled up by
 the ingenuity of the pupil, and that obscurity which often
 results from the suppression of intermediate ideas.                 Mr.
 Gregory has not attempted to explain the nature of gravity,
 impulse, or the other sources of the motion of bodies ; and
 the reasons he assigns        in his  preface   are perfectly satisfac
 tory.     The general definition of the term force, in a mecha
 nical sense, supersedes the necessity of inquiring into the
 essence of the various kinds of forces which may operate
                                                                    upon

   308               Notices respecting New Books.
  upon matter.      Those who carefully contemplate the process
   of  that gradual refinement of language, which results from
  the necessary    demands occasioned by the progress of civili
  sation, will see how requisite it is to appropriate terms ori
  ginally of a laxer or of a grosser sigmfication, to some pe
  culiar modification of thought ; and hence, that such words
   as power and   force, primarily     used to denote animal energy,
   are now, by a natural extension, grounded upon an obvious
  analogy, employed to express efficiency in general.           In the
  philosophical acceptation, then, he defines force or power to
  be that, whatever it be, " which causes a change in the state
- of   a body, whether that state be rest or motion         : and this
  definition does not require entering into any metaphysical
  disquisitions relative to the nature of causes, or the connec
  tion of cause and effect : that every effect is brought about
  by some cause, or something which precedes in the order of
  occurrence, is a truth which none will be disposed to deny ;
  but what is the agency, or where it actually resides, we can
  seldom know, except, perhaps, in the case of our own vo
  luntary actions.      It is not, then, the business of the mecha
  nist, strictly speaking,     to inquire into the modus operandi :
  we learn, from universal experience, -that the muscular energy
  of animals, the operation of gravity, electricity, pressure, im
  pact, 8cc. are sources of motion, or of modifications of motion ;
  and hence, without pretending to know the essence           of either
  of  these, we do not hesitate to call them mechanical forces ;
  because it is incontrovertible      that bodies exposed  to the free
  action of either, are put into motion, or have the state of
  their motion changed. Forces, therefore, being known to
 us only by their effects, can only be measured by the effects
 they produce in like circumstances,            whether those effects
 be creating, accelerating, retarding, deflecting, or preventing
 motions    : and it is by comparing these effects, or by referring
 them to some common measure of ready appreciation, not
by ascertaining the essential nature of any forces, that me
chanics is made one of the mathematical sciences.
     "  Besides, what is meant by the nature of any thing ? As
we are ignorant      of  its essence,   or what makes   it that thing
and no other thing, we must content ourselves           with the dis
                                                               co very

                  Notices respecting   New Books.              269
covery of its qualities or properties ; and it is the assemblage
of these which is commonly called its rature : yet this is
very inaccurate,     since these are only the consequences of
the essence.      Hence we can give no definition of even the
simplest of things which comprehends its real essence."
    We have no hesitation in saying that this work cannot
fail to prove extremely useful.       The first volume, in parti
cular, is executed in a manner highly creditable to the judg
ment and abilities of the author, who has rendered an essen
tial service    to his country by ils publication.      In praising
in this particular manner the merits of the first, we would
not be understood as meaning to censure the second vo
lume : from the very nature of its contents it was impossi
ble to infuse into it the mind which pervades the other; but
the author has collected in it much useful information, which
with   less industry and judgment      than he possesses could not
have been brought together in the same compass.            A future
edition would probably be rendered still more valuable, by
the suppression or alteration of      a seemingly ex parte state
ment of the comparative merits       of Mr. Watt-s steam-erigine
and that of Mr. Hornblowcr ; which however is not given
in the work as the author-s own production, but as from
Mr. Hornblower, or some .relative of the same name. Should
the work meet with that reception which it merits from the
public, we have no doubt but a new edition will soon be
demanded.
A    Treatise on the Teeth     of Wheels, Pinions, ($c., demon-
 . strating the best Forms which can be given to them for
    the various Purposes of Machinery, such as Mill-trork,
    Clock-work, &c.; and the Art of finding their Numbers.
    Translated from the French of M. CAMUS; uith Addi
    tions.    Illustrated with jifteen Plates.        Published ly
    J.  Taylor, Holborn.
    This work is a translation of the tenth and eleventh
books of M. Camus-s Cours de Mathematique.                The abi
lities  of the author   are so well known to the    learned  world,
that nothing that can be said here can add to his fame ; and
it is but justice to the translator to say, he has executed his
                                                               part

   270                Notices respecting  New Books.
  part with fidelity, and in a way creditable to himself.              It
  is of much more importance than mere operative mechanics
  can possibly conceive, that the         best form   of  the    teeth of
  wheels should be ascertained         on true mathematical princi
  ples.    Where this is npt attended to, there will always be an
  unnecessary load on the machinery, arising from mere fric
 tion, a consequent waste of power and time, and a propor
 tionate expenditure for repairs. We cannot however avoid
 noticing that there is a manifest disagreement          between the
 text   of this work, and an illustration of the application of the
 epicycloid to the teeth of wheels given in the preface.             The
 latter directs the epicycloid curve to be generated from the
 primitive diameters of the wheels that are to work into each
 other; the former directs them to be generated from circles
 equal    to   radius only of these diameters. — This work, we
 doubt not, will be found very useful, and we hope will
 procure to the publisher a proper return for the service he
 has    rendered    to the public    by presenting it in an English
 dress.
 The Vaccine Contest ; or        "  Mild Humanity, Reason, Reli
    gion,    and   Truth,  against fierce unfeeling Ferocity, over
    bearing Influence, mortified Pride, false Faith, and De
    speration," &?c.        By William Blair, M.          J.    Surgeon
    of the Lock Hospital, &c. &c. Published by Murray.
    In this work,     designed for the use of clergymen, heads of
families,      and  other unprofessional readers, Mr. Blair at
tempts      to   answer the objectors against the cow.pox, on.
quite a new        plan; viz. by quoting their own words, and
making them refute themselves; in which it is but justice
to say,    he has effectually succeeded.       This popular work is
a very    fair exposure of the unprincipled means to which the
anti-vaccinators have resorted to turn the prejudices of the
ignorant into a source of dishonest emolument to them
selves.
    Doctor Patterson, of Londonderry,            strongly   impressed
with the importance of the subject,            is engaged    in   " Re
searches      concerning     Pestilential and   Epidemic     Diseases,
                                4                                  with

                        Royal Society of London.                     271
 with a View to obtain valid Principles whereon to found a
 Civil Constitution of Medical Police for Ireland."
       To every one conversant in this field of inquiry, it is
 manifest, that the climate of the country, the physical and
 moral attributes of the inhabitants, their political and com
 mercial     relations,    their ceconomical institutes, and other
 corresponding circumstances, must be taken into considera
  tion in a work of this description.         It will also he necessary
  to take    a retrospective survey of the numerous malignant
  and reigning distempers which have prevailed in many parts
  of the earth throughout a series of ages. These are not easy
  tasks — they are not small undertakings : yet, difficult and
- extensive as
                   they are, little short of their achievement will
  answer the purpose ; a purpose which has in contemplation
  objects of the first national importance.
        Mr. Rudge      has  just published the Fourth Fasciculus,
   -which completes the       First Volume, of his Descriptions and
   Figures of the Rare Plants of Guiana.
        The plants described in this work formed a part of that
   superb collection of natural history consigned from Cayenne
    to the National Museum at Paris         : they were five years col
    lecting in Guiana, by order of       the French government, and
    were   captured on their passage by two British privateers          at
    the commencement of the present war.
        We understand      that only 150 copies   of this work will     be
    published.
                  LI I.  Proceedings   of Learned   Societies.
                        ROYAL SOCIETY OP LONDON.
     JVlARCH     27.   The Right Honourable President in the chair.
     —The reading of an       interesting paper, consisting of observa
     tions on the marine barometer and thermometer, made by
      captain Flinders, on the coast of New Holland, in the years
      1801, 1802,     and   1803,  commenced,     and    the   society ad
     journed, in consequence of the Easter holidays, till the
         17th of April. The President in the chair.— Continuation
                                                                         of

     272                      Royal   Society     of London.
    of    the above      paper,   containing       a great    variety of isolated
    facts     of  the most extraordinary and unaccountable fluctua
    tions or stagnations          of   the mercury       in  the barometer and
    thermometer.
        On     that evening Messrs. Lacepede and Cuvier,                 of Paris ;
    M. Prevot, of Geneva; and Mr. Charles Harding, of Bre
    men, the discoverer of the new planet Juno, were elected
    fellows of the Royal Society of London, in the foreign list.
        April 24. The President in the chair. — Continuation of
    captain Flinders's meteorological reflections, in which the
    author seemed to believe that he had accumulated sufficient
    data to enable him, with a seaman's experience,                  to prognos
   ticate truly the general        state   of the weather,     and the approach
   or continuance of         a storm, by the assistance of his barometric
   observations.           This   desideratum        is doubtless within the
   sphere of human science, and might be attained by atten
   tion and industry, only in the bourse of a few years, if every
   captain of a vessel would bestow on it the same attention as
   captain Flinders,         and    communicate his observations with
   equal promptness.            The number, talents,          and opportunities
  of our        naval   officers render      it extraordinary that they have
  not before        this time    collected     such   a  multitude of facts    as
  the philosopher in his cabinet could arrange and digest into
  a practical system, that would enable the navigator to anti
  cipate the direction and strength               of  the wind    in every lati
  tude, and at all seasons          of  the year.      There exists, indeed, at
  the present moment, a great deal              of meteorological knowledge,
 among individuals of our seamen, unknown to many of our
 meteorologists, and equally unprofitable to the public, merely
 from diffidence in the observers to write down their observa
 tions.
      It   may not be improper           to add here a peculiarity        of the
 marine atmosphere, not observed by this minute narrator of
 facts, nor perhaps by any other seaman, namely, that the
air or wind always traverses the sea in distinct masses or
bodies, and in parallel lines.                  It is a fact, to which there
are few exceptions, that a              current    of air, whatever may be
its direction or velocity, uniformly travels in a right line at
sea,     till it is cither entirely absorbed          or its power exhausted
                                                                             by

                       Royal    Society  of London.                 873
 by rarefaction.      The reverse is the case on land"; as no cur
  rent of wind can pass many miles- without experiencing a
  change of temperature, density, velocity, and even direc
  tion, in consequence of the variegated surface and tempe
  rature of the earth.       The rencounter of two opposite cur
  rents of wind, at sea, does not produce the effect proper
  to solid bodies in motion, according to the received laws of
 mechanics; on the contrary, as their temperatures and den
 sities  must necessarily be different, each pursues its unde-
 viating course without any change, excepting only that the
 least dense is obliged to ascend and make room for the other,
 which keeps next to the surface of the water ; notwithstanding
 which, each proceeds with nearly its original velocity. Two
 currents of air, whatever may be their temperatures or den
 sities, never incorporate either by sea or land, without the
 intervention of a third body (such a? mountains, &c), which
 destroys their respective     velocities.     No such resisting bodies
 being at sea, the different currents of wind must consequently
 follow the law of their densities. Parallel currents often
 occur in very short distances, and the intervening spaces
 frequently experience dead calms, sometimes accompanied
 with fogs, or with unclouded brightness, and considerable
 heat.     This circumstance will, on many occasions, account
 either for the stagnancy or rapid fluctuation of the mercury
 in the barometer at sea; which can never happen, even in the
 warmest or most electrical climates, on shore, where there
 is a much greater and more general sameness of density and
 temperature in the atmospherical currents, in consequence
 of the greater facilities of commixtion, and often, indeed,
 of chemical union of the different gases.
     For these remarks, which fprm no part of captain Flin-
 ders's communication,        we are indebted to a gentleman who
 has made a number         of observations on this important sub
ject.     Should any of our nautical readers, or others who
may     have  had an opportunity of making similar observa
tions, communicate to us the result of their experience*,
 we shall gladly lend our aid to the collecting of such facts
          • Addressed to the Editor of The Philosophical Magazine.
tol.    24. No. 95. April     1806".       S                         as

274                       London Institution.
as may tend       to the elucidation     of this subject, by giving
them    a place  in our work.
   A   letter from Srnithson Tennant, esq. to the President,
was read,    announcing his discovery of native minium in a
vein of galena in Devonshire.            A small quantity of this
native minium was found in the centre of a piece of cubic
galena, accompanied with crystals of spar. This ingenious
chemist promises to forward specimens of the mineral to his
mineralogical friends, for their personal inspection.
                       LONDON INSTITUTION.
   A  general    rrieeting of the proprietors of this institution
was held on the 24th of April, at its house in the Old Jewry,
to receive a report from the managers on a royal charter pro
posed    to be applied for, to obtain for the society the rights
of  a corporate body.
   A draft of the proposed charter was read to the meeting,
which, after some discussion, was ordered to be printed for
the Use of the proprietors, and to be taken into their consi
deration at    a future meeting.
   The meeting then proceeded to elect, by ballot, the first
officers, &c. of the institution, preparatory to the insertion
of their names in the proposed charter 3 when the following
gentlemen were elected :
                     President  — For    One Year.
            Sir Francis Baring, bart. M. P.
                 Vice-Presidents — For Four Years.
            Sir Richard Neave, bart. F.R.S. and        F.AiS.
                           For Three Years.
            lleeston Long, esq.
                            For Two Years.
            George    Ilibbert,   esq. F.L.S.
                             For one Year.
            John Julius Angerstein, esq.
                    Managers — For Four Years.
            Richard Clark, esq. F.A.S. chamberlain.
            Rev. Matthew Raine, D.D. F.R.S. and F.A.S.
            Richard Sharp, Esq.        F.A.S.
            John Sfnith,     esq.  M.P.
             Henry Thornton, esq. M.P.
                                                                For

             London Institution.                        S75
               For Three Years.
Jeremiah Harman,         esq.
Benjamin Harrison, esq. F.A.S.
William Hasledine Pepys, esq.
John Rennie,      esq.   F.R.S. F.A.S.
Robert Wigram, esq. F.R.S.             F.A.S.
               For Tivo Years.
Thomas Bodley, esq.
Charles Bosanquet, esq.
John   Peter  Hankey,      esq.
Joseph Huddart, esq. F.R.S.
Job Matthew Raikes, esq.
                For  One Year.
Thomas Baring, esq.
Samuel Boddington, esq.
Nathaniel Bogle French,          esq*.
William Henry Hoare,           esq.
Abraham Wilday Robarts, esq.
         Visitors — For     Four Years.
Sir John William Anderson,             bart. M.P.
Henry Hoare, esq. F.A.S.
William Saunders, M.D. F.R.S. F.A.S.
               For Three Years.
Sir  William    Blizard, F.R.S. F.A.S.
Sir Charles Price, bart. M.P.
 Right hon. the lord mayor, James Shaw,           esq.
                For Two Years.
Thomson Bonar,         esq.
 Harvey Christian Combe, esq.            M.P.
 Sir Hugh Inglis, bart. M.P.
                For   One Year.
 Charles Grant,     esq.   M.P.
 Robert Hankey,      esq.
 William Manning,         esq.  M.P.
        Auditors   — For    one Year.
 Isaac Lyon Goldsmid, esq..
 Thomas Hughan, esq.
                      S 2                              John

276    Royal College of Surgeons.— Society of Antiquaries.
            John Inglis,   esq.
            Thomas Reid, esq.
            William Salte, esq.                         ,
                     Treasurer — For one Yeat.
             Sir Willam Curtis, hart. M.P.
                     Secretary — For one Year.
             Samuel Woods, esq.
           ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS, LONDON.
   At   the meeting   of this body held    on the   16th   of April
(instant), the Jacksonian    prize for 1605 was adjudged to John
Hyslop, esq. of Fenchurch-street, surgeon, for the best
dissertation on " Injuries of the head from external vio
lence."
   There are two prize subjects for the present year :
    1. The diseases of the joints, particularly the hip and knee,
and the best mode of treatment.
    2. Herniae, and the best mode of treatment.
    The dissertations are required to be delivered        in before
Christmas 180C.
                    SOCIETY OF ANTIOUARIES.
    March 27. The right hon. the earl of Leicester, presi
dent, in the chair.      An old painting was exhibited of three
real portraits, placed around a table covered with cards and
money, which was marked Edward VI. and Elizabeth : the
three old gentlemen seem deeply            engaged at play, and
from their dress and character it was conjectured that the
painting must have been executed shortly after the days of
Elizabeth. The learned president seemed to have the most
 correct notions of the characters supposed to be delineated.
    Drawings of some more of          Mr. Weston's Greek coins
 were ale>o exhibited.
    April   17.   The president in   the chair. — Mr. Gough exhi
 bited some excellent drawings of the church of St. Albans,
 displaying almost every style of architecture that has been
 used in this country.
    A  letter to the president from    Mr. Morris   at the Cape    of
 Good Hope was read,        containing   accounts of the different
                                                             English

                        Society  of Antiquaries.                   Ill
English inscriptions found on stones there, relating the ar-~
rival and departure of sir Henry Middleton's fleet of East
India merchantmen in 1604 and 1609, being the fourth
voyage to India.        The inscriptions were on stones placed in
a conspicuous part of the shore, and designed            merely as a
notice for other English ships that might touch there, where
and when any others might probably pass.            The same writer
mentions, that he saw the fluke of an anchor on the sum
mit of Table mountain, a height at which no human effort
could likely have placed it.
    The right hon. lord Hutchinson was elected           a  fellow  of
this society, which was         adjourned till the anniversary on
the 23d     of April.
    On the 23d of April, being St. George's day, the society
of antiquaries met at their apartments in Somerset-place, in
 pursuance of their statutes and charter of incorporation, to
elect a president, council, and officers of the society for the
year ensuing     : — whereupon
George, earl of Leicester,           Craven Ord, esq.
William Bray, esq.                   John, lord bishop      of Salis-
Rev. John Brand, A. M.                     bury,
Sir H. C. Englefield, bart.          John Willett Willett,    esq.
Rev. Dr. Hamilton,                   Joseph Windham, esq. and
Samuel Lysons, esq.                   Rev. T. Wm, Wrighte, A.M.
eleven of the council, were          rechosen of the new council ;
and
Edward Astle, esq.                   John Wilkinson, M.D.
James Bindley, esq.                  Henry Norton Willis, esq.
Francis Douce, esq.                  Hon. Brownlow, lord bishop
Charles, duke of Norfolk,                  of Winchester, and
Hon. John Peachy,                     Chas. Wat. Williams Wynne,
John Sylvester,       esq.                 esq.
ten    of the other members        of  the society, were   chosen    of
the new council,       and they were severally declared to be the
Gouncil for the vear ensuing; and on a report made of the
 officers of the Society, it appeared that
        George, earl of Leicester, was elected president,
        William Bray, esq. treasurer,
        Samuel Lysons, esq. director,
                                    S 3                           Rev.

278             .French National Institute, &c.
      Rev. Thomas William Wrighte, A.M. secretary, and
      Rev. John Brand, A.M. secretary for the year ensuing.
   The society afterwards dined together at the Crown and
Anchor tavern in the Strand, according to annual custom.
                 FRENCH NATIONAL INSTITUTE.
   The class of history and of antient literature of the French
National Institute lately held a meeting for the purpose of
distributing the annual prices.
    One of the subjects which had been proposed was the fol
lowing :
   (<
      To examine what was the administration of Egypt,
from the conquest of that country by Augustus to the taking
of Alexandria by the Arabs ; to give an account of the
changes   which it experienced      during that interval ; the con
dition of the Egyptians ;       and to explain what was the con
dition of strangers domiciliated in Egypt, and particularly
the Jews."
   Of all the memoirs sent to the meeting,        not one appeared
to possess sufficient merit to obtain the prize ; the subject
was therefore again given out for the meeting in the month
of July 1807.
   The class then proposed,       as the subject of a prize essay to
be adjudged    in  July  1609,   " to examine what has been the
influence of the crusades      upon the civil liberty of the people
of Europe, upon their civilization,       and upon the progress   of
their learning,     commerce, and industry."
   The prize    offered is a gold medal   of 1500 francs in value   ;
and the discourse, which must be in French or          Latin, must
be given   in before   the 1st of April  1 808.
   IMPERIAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, LITERATURE, AND
                      THE FINE ARTS, TURIN.
    This academy, formerly the Royal Academy of Turin,
which was new modelled in consequence of Piedmont being
annexed to France, has published two qu..yto volumes of
memoirs for the years 1 2 and 1 3. One of the volumes is
appropriated to the labours of the Class of Literature and the
Fine Arts; the other, compiled by the secretary, M. Vassali
 Eandi, mentions the changes that have taken place in the
list of academicians, the various papers read at the meetings,
                                                                and

                     Imperial Academy of Turin.                    279
and the presents made to the academy.              After this follows
an account of the labours of the academy up to 1805, which
occupies 250 pages, and then the different memoirs, viz.
    1.  Description of     a  new portable barometer for measuring
heights and depths, with observations made with it in the
circles of Turin and Saluzzo : by Vassali Eandi.
    2. Account of a waterspout that occurred in the territory
of Revel, in      the circle   of Saluzzo, March 27, 1798; with
remarks on the cause         of the phaenomenon : by the same.
    3. On the different capacities for conducting heat, ascer
tained, by experiment, in different articles used for clothing        :
by   J. Sennebier.
    4.  Of  a new species      of hawkweed (crepis), to which are
added some cryptogamiae          of Piedmont : by J. Baptist Balbis.
    A figure of this plant, which Mr. B. calls crepis amhigua,
is given.      Among the cryptogamiae are the following new
species   : mucor jlosculentus, peziza amentacea, lichen nivalis.
These likewise are figured.
    5. Experiments on the effects of the nitric and oxygenated
muriatic acid, employed topically in the treatment of various
diseases:    by   M.   Rossi.      Mr. R.  gives  an account    of the
cure of    several gangrenous ulcers, venereal buboes, and even
contagious carbuncles, effected by the application of these
acids.
    6. Meteorological observations made during the solar eclipse
on the 30th of January 1 805, at the observatory of Turin ;
with reflections on them : by Ant. Mar. Vassali Eandi.
    7.  On   a species  of  cassia, that may be substituted for the
senna    of  the shops   ;  by M. Bellardi.     This is the cassia ma-
rilandica,    which Mr. B. would call succedanea, because, ac
cording to him, it may supply the place of cassia lavceolata.
    8. Inquiries into the nature of the Galvanic fluid : by
A. M. Vassali Eandi,
    Q. On the mines of plumbago in            the departments   of the
StureandPo: by M. Bonvoisin.                    i
    10. Attempts to improve nut oil         : by the same.     Mr. B,
points out a method of purifying          this oil, and rendering it
as fit for lamps as other fine oils.
                                  S4                          }l,Exa.

280                 Imperial Academy        of Turin.
    1 1.  Examination     of  the action    of   the Galvanic fluid on
different gases : by J. A. Giobert.
    1*. An anatomical and physiological essay on the lymph»
atic glands : by professor Rossi,
    13. Solution    of  a  problem depending on the theory of
permutations and combinations : by professor Balbo.
    14. Explanation of the circumstance of a fish being occa
sionally found with prickles in the river of the 27th military
division: by M. Giorna.            This  fish  is   the ajprinus   idus ;
the male     only has prickles,     and loses them after spawning-
time.
    15.  A chemico-medical       essay on the pulmonary consump
tion, by Jos. Hyac. Rizzetti. The principal subject of this
essay is the nature of the matter expectorated.
   The following papers are by foreign members :
    1. Memoir on the use of varying the constant quantity in
summing up equations with variable coefficients, by Dr.
Brunacci.
    2. A systematical enumeration of the coleoptera found in
the territory of Saluzzo, with observations by Lau. Ponza.
To this catalogue    are annexed two plates, containing          the fol
lowing new      species.     Coccinetta   numeralis,—c.      olsoleta, —
curculio spinosus, —-c. dulius,- — c.rugosus, — cerambyx prteus-
tus, — c. melanocephalus, — chrysorncla melanocephala, — ck,
variegata,—ch.prctiosa, — ch.luctuosa,—scarabceiisrufescens,
— cantharis impressif-rons, — attelabus funereus, —dytiscus
silpkoides, — tenclrio rufus, — lirrhus Rossii, — carabus attenua-
t us, — c.mctallicus, — c. Rossii,—forficula lipunctata, — silpha
sinuata, — s. scalira.
   3.  On the motion of      the hairs  of  the hypnum adiantoides,
by Palamedas     de Suffren.      Parts endued with irritability had
already    been observed      in  the hairs   of   some  mosses.     Mr.
De S.    has found it in those of the hypn. diant. and describes
all the singularities of the pluenomenon.             This paper is ac
companied with a plate.
   4.  Of   a resin employed by the bee in             constructing    its
combs.      By Fr. Mouxy Deloche.
   5. Entomological       observations;     by  Mr. Distleri. Mr. Du
                                                                     first

        Academy    of Genoa.  — Vaccine-   Pock Society,  &c.    281
first sketches    the history of the silkworm ; and then pro
ceeds to     certain hymenoptera, chiefly of the genera ten.
thredo, ichneumon,     sphex, and vespa.
    6. Specimen of the fungi of the vale of Pisa, by Hugh
Camino. The new species are figured on three plates.
They     are Agaricus    elatior:   a. miniatus  : a. pezizoides  : a.
atrosanguineus : a. tricolor: Boletus scobinaceus : Hel-
vella grandis : h. reflexa: h. inflata : Peziza ochracea : p.
pyriformis : Reticularia rosea: Mucor fruticulosus.
    7. Observations on the native gold found among sand, by
Lew. Bossi, of Milan.
                       ACADEMY      OF   GENOA.
    On    the 26th   of January   last this academy    had a public
meeting, which        was attended by the     chancellor of the ex
chequer Le Brun, member of          the French National    Institute,
and other distinguished inhabitants.            M. Cotardo Solari
opened the meeting with a discourse on the following sub
ject :    " That learning, when not regulated by wisdom, is
 productive of more injury than benefit to a state."          The fol
 lowing prize questions were afterwards announced           :
     1.  Has any other of the heavenly bodies, besides the sun
 and moon, any influence upon the meteorological appear
 ances of the world ?
    2. Which is the best method of rendering the harbour of
 Genoa more secure and convenient for shipping ?
    3. Whether is it more advantageous for the inhabitants of
 the Ligurian republic to encourage the wine or oil trade? and
 what is the best method of cultivating the vine, and the plants
 which produce oil ?
    The prize for the best answer to each of these questions is
 a gold medal of 400 ducats in value : the second best dis
 course will be rewarded with       a silver medal.   The discourses
 must be given in on or before the 1 5th of November next.
              VACCINE-rOCK.     SOCIETY,     AMSTERDAM.
    This society lately held its annual sitting ; when it ap
 peared that out     of 1800 persons inoculated with the cow-
 pock during the years 1804 and 5, not one had died, or taken
 the small -pox.                                         ,
                                                            medical

   i'82      Medical    Society of Lyons, &c.~-'Aerostation.
                     MEDICAL    SOCIETY OF LYONS.
      This society has announced the following prize question :
  "   What are the diagnostic and prognostic signs afforded by
  the state of the tongue, the lips, and the teeth, in acute and
  chronic disorders ? and what advantages may result to prac
  tice from this discovery ?" — The prize is a gold medal of 300
  francs in value.       The answer must be given in on or before
  August     1807.
       (ECONOMICAL       SOCIETY   OF THE BAHAMA ISLANDS.
      This society   has been presented by the British government
  with a hundred. acres of ground near Nassau in New Provi
  dence,   for the purpose of founding a botanical garden, and
  erecting a house wherein the society is to hold its meetings.
                        AMERICAN     SOCIETIES.
     Since Louisiana was added to the United States of North
 America, two learned societies have been formed in that di
 strict,  at  New Orleans     and Natchez.   That of  the former is
 called   " The    Literary Society,"   and  publishes a monthly
journal, particularly intended to      extend a knowledge      of the
 country to other nations, and containing a collection of
 useful learning.       The literary society at Natchez was esta
 blished in Oct. 1 803, and is called " The Missisippi Society
 for the Discovery and Extension of useful Knowledge ;" it
consists of between 30 and 40 members, has correspondents
in the several united states, and special regulations of its
own : both the above societies are sanctioned by the Ame
rican government.
          LIU.     Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                             AEROSTATION.
                                                        Lisle, April 9.
 X he ninth     aerial ascension announced by   M. Mosment      took
place last Monday, (the 7th inst.) in the elegant rotunda of
the circus of this city, in presence of an immense crowd of
spectators.     From day-break the aeronaut was b.usily occupi
                                                                  ed

                             Iceland.                           28S
ed in the production    of hydrogen gas ; the sky was serene,
and at mid-day the     operation of filling the balloon was com
pleted and every thing     ready.     M.   Mosment    leapt into the
car ; and upon a signal being given the balloon was set at li
berty, and ascended very rapidly into the air amidst the
 shouts of the spectators. M. Mosment repeatedly waved
 his flag as he ascended, which was adorned with the imperial
eagle.     The wind was northerly, and the balloon was car
ried gently before it. At a certain height the aeronaut let go a
parachute to which an animal was attached, and the experi
ment succeeded admirably.          In the mean time the balloon
 continued to ascend, and appeared as if exactly above the
 town.     At one o-clock it seemed to have encountered some
 adverse winds.     Something     red was    then seen slowly    de
 scending, which was picked up, and found to be the flag
 which the aeronaut carried up with him. This however ex
  cited no disagreeable   emotions,     and all eyes were turned to
 the balloon, which soon ascended to such a height as to be
 come invisible. The crowd then began to disperse, perfectly
 satisfied with the success   of   the experiment ; but a rumour
  ran through the populace, that the dead body of a man had
 been found dreadfully mangled         in one of the fosses of the
 town. This excited some inquiry ; and upon inspecting the
  body, it was found to be that of the unfortunate aeronaut,
  but so covered with blood that it was with difficulty he was
  recognised.
     This  event gave rise to various conjectures ; but it is ge
  nerally supposed that the car was too shallow, and that M.
  Mosmeut     had fallen asleep, as often happens to aeronauts
  when in certain regions of the air, and had been shaken out
  by the violence of the winds.       It is possible also that one of
  the cords may have slipt, and that        M. Mosment losing his
   balance had fallen out. The balloon has not yet been found ;
  which prevents the real cause of the accident from being        as
   certained.
                              ICELAND.
      The Danish government is occupied in the amelioration
   of the lot of the inhabitants of Iceland, a people removed to
   the confines of the polar circle, but interesting on account
                                                                   of

i'84      New Musical Instrument.        — Antiquities, &c.
of the   zeal with which they cultivated the sciences        in  the 10th
and 11th centuries, and on account          of the voyages they made
to America.      Iceland, almost ruined by various phvsical and
political  misfortunes,     is about to be restored ; a regular city
is building, to be called Reykiavig ; and it is already peopled
by colonics of natives as well as strangers ; a free port invites           .
the vessels of commerce ; and a college, where even the an-
tient languages and natural history are taught, is in the full
exercise of its functions.
                     NEW MUSICAL INSTRUMENT.
    M. Diez,    at Emmerich        on the Rhine, has invented anew
musical instrument, which he calls           a Melodion.      It occupies
less room than an ordinary piano forte, and may be played on by
 any common performer, after a little practice,.            That which
distinguishes     it  above all   other  instruments     of the kind, is
the circumstance of its producing the sounds of the clarionet,
hautbois, and bassoon, in the softest piano or the most bril
liant forte movements.           The cost of such an instrument is
 about 40 louis d'ors.
                              ANTIQUITIES.
    A letter from     Petersburgh, of the IQth of March, mentions
 the discovery of two great cities in the Russian empire, of
which no traces can he discovered in history ; one of them
in the Isle of Taman in the Black Sea, the other in a dw
 strict in Siberia.
                         CHEMICAL AFFINITIES.
     An intelligent correspondent, Mr. Collard of Birming
 ham, the proprietor of a chemical laboratory in that neigh
 bourhood, in which many articles necessary to the arts and
 manufactures of this kingdom arc prepared on a very large
 scale, has communicated to us a new fact well worthy of
 the attention    of chemists.
     Contrary to the common tables of affinities, he finds that
  copper may be precipitated from its solution in the sul
 phuric acid by tin.         All that is necessary to the success of
  the experiment      is, that  the solutionbe nearly at the boiling
  point, or actually boiling, when the tin is put into it. The
  tin made use    of ought     to be in filings   or in leaf, or reduced
                                                                         to

                                Mineralogy.                                 485"
to thin fragments by pouring               it,   when in fusion, into cold
water.
  To      the enlightened chemist we need not point out the ex
periments suggested        by
                        this new and curious fact, and the
important results to which    may ultimately lead.
                                     it              If cop
per and tin,     by
                  mereadifference in  the temperature of the
solution, may be made mutually to precipitate each other,                     it
is not impossible that the order of affinities with respect
to other metals for the different acids may also be inverted
by circumstances connected with temperature.      Should any
such results be obtained, they will be productive of incalcu
lable advantages in many intricate cases of analysis. The
different results obtained in apparently similar experiments,
 by equally accurate chemists, may perhaps have been owing
in    some cases      to the   existence of such        a   law   as   we   now
allude to.
                                MINERALOGY.
  Dr. Aires, from New Jersey, who has lately explored se
veral of the western counties of the State of North Carolina,
in search of gold, reports, that he has discovered gold in
branches anti creeks in the counties of Cabarrus, Mont
 gomery, and Randolph, in      north and north-east course,
                                      a
 and in the county of Mecklenburgh, in south and south  a
 west direction from the first sound, where none had ever
 been  discovered before, except in three or four branches
 near Reed-s (the first discovery) in Cabarrus county. A few
 pieces of gold, intermixed with stone, have been found on
 the surface of the earth, and some ploughed up in most of
 the said counties.        Several    of   the said water-courses contain
 considerable quantities of gold dust, which can be collected
 by washing the sand, after the first or common washing, with
 a machine proper for the purpose, and then      mixing mer  by
 cury with the sand thus washed, which will unite with the
 particles of gold, and form an amalgam, whence the mercury
 may be driven off        by
                        heat.
      A
      copper mine has been discovered on the estate of Hans
 Hamilton, esq., in the county of Dublin, which promises
 to be very productive.           A
                             company has been formed, and
 arc already engaged in carrying  on.            it
                                                                       TRAVELS

   SBd   Travels. — Analysis    of Waters. -— Surgical Instruments.
                                 TRAVELS.
     The Polish Prince Alexander Sapieha            has concluded his
  geological    and    archaeological   travels, and has returned to
  his estates in Poland for the purpose of enjoying there the
  treasures of art and science which he has collected.               His
  longest stay was at Athens, where he was so fortunate as to
  preserve many of the last rays of the declining grandeur of
  antient Greece, in their native splendour.
     The embassy to China left Maisnabischin, the first Chi
  nese frontier    town, in December,        for Pekin.   it consists of
  1 20 persons   ;  the rest  of the suite returns,  and some persons
  are already arrived in Russia.    Six  years ago, a Russian caravan,
  200,000 rubles in value, going to Taschkent, was plundered
 by the Kingise.         The chiefs have now engaged to make
 good the loss amicably.
     The South American Society of Commerce at Petersburg
 have received intelligence that M. Resanow, the Russian am
 bassador    to Japan,    has not yet been admitted to an audience
 of   the sovereign, but that he has been in other respects well
 received; the presents of which he was the bearer having
 been    accepted,     and an exchange made         of  the   same   de
 scription.
                         ANALYSIS OF WATERS.
     Dr. Menuret, of Paris,        has lately analysed the different
 waters    in that neighbourhood.
     The water of the Seine contains 5 grains 3-? of foreign
 matter in each pint. That of the river Yvette yields 7 grains
 -y- ; that of the Arceuil, 7 grains .fa ; that of Ville d-Avray,
 9  grains f&. Bristol water contains 14 grains -J-|, &c.
    Thus, of all the waters drunk at Paris, that of the Seine is
the most salubrious, the purest, and the lightest.
                       SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS.
    Drs. Faust     and  Hunold     are preparing a   work, in which
they endeavour to prove, that, with the exception of the
lancet used in inoculation, every surgical instrument ought
to be dipped in oil before proceeding to the operation, and
should also be heated to the temperature           of the blood.     By
                                                                  these

              A  remarkable Hen. — Lectures, &?c.          287
these precautions     they contend that the pain of the opera
tion is always diminished.
                      A REMARKABLE     HEN.
    For the three last summers, a hen, the property of Charles
Ranken, at Auchinairn, parish of Cadder, has frequently
laid eggs of an extraordinary size and weight.         Within
these few weeks, she has      laid three eggs, each of which
measures in diameter 6£ inches by 7J, and weighs fully 3.J.
oz. ; and generally, on the day before she lays the large egg,
she lays an egg   of an ordinary size.
                            LECTURES.
    Mr. Taunton's next Course of Lectures on Anatomy, Phy
siology, and Surgery, will commence on Saturday the 24th
of May, at 8 o'clock in the evening, at his house in Gre-
ville Street, Hatton Garden.
           LIST  OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
    To Samuel Miller, of the parish of Saint Pancras, in the
county    of Middlesex ; for various improvements in the
working of coal, tin, lead, and other mines, by which
there will be a great saving of fuel and labour, and many
accidents prevented.      Dated April 1, 1806.
    To James Keir, of West Bromwich, in the county of
 Stafford, esq.; for his improved method of manufacturing
 white lead.    Dated April 3, 1806.
    To William Henry Lassalle, of the city of Bristol, apo
 thecary ; for certain improvements in soap. Dated April 5,
 1806.
    To James Kay, of Preston, in the county of Lancaster,
 machine-maker ; for improvements upon Thomas Johnson's
 patent machine for dressing cotton, silk, and other goods
 by power. Dated April 17, 1806.
    To Thomas James Plucknett, of the         parish of Christ
 Church, in the county of Surry, agricultural machine ma
 ker ; for a machine for dibbling and drilling all kinds of
 grain and pulse.     Dated April 17, 1806.
                                                     METEORO-

288                             Meteorology:
                       meteorological table*
                   Bv Mr. Caret, of the StrAnd,
                               For April    1806.
                    The•rmometer.
                                                        DegreesofDry-
                                                                           Hygrometer.
                                      Height of
Days of the                      a                                                              Weather.
                                      the Barom.
                                                        ness
  Month.                        o                            by
                                                                Leslie's
               P                 9
                    5
                                2       Inches.
March     27       46°   47°    42°    28.85                 12°                         Cloudy
          28       41    42     40        •89                16                          Cloudy
          29       39    43     39        •83                     9                      Cloudy
          30       39    46     38        •90                23                          Cloudy
          31       40    47     38     30.06       .         12                          Cloudy
  April    1       36    42     34       '30                 21                          Cloudv
                   35    42     34        •22                13                          Cloudv
           4 3 2
                   35    41     35        •22               21                           Cloudy
                   35    40     36        •10                     7                      Cloudy
           5       39    48     41     29•95                22                           Fair
           6       46    54     42       •90                37                           Fair
                   47    55     39       •86                34                           Fair
           9 8 7
                   39    55     42        •90               34                           Fair
             46          56     40        •72               25                           Fair
          10 44          46    38         •51                14                          Cloudv
          11       35    41     34        •55               20                           Cloudy
          12       33    34     29        •65               22               .           Cloudy
                   33    34     33        •35                                            Snow
                                                               0 0
          13
          14       35    38     34        •58                                            Snow
          15       34    39     34        •80               23                           Cloudy
          16       34    49     40     30.28               47                            Fair
          17       40    55     45        •40              47                            Fair
          18       46    58     49        •36                18                          Cloudy
          19       49    59     52        •32                    7                       Cloudy
          20       52    61     52        •31               17                           Fair
          21       52    57     48        •30                    5                       Cloudy
          no       49    55     45       •18                   0                         Showery
          23       44    49     43        •22              30                            Fair
          24       44    51     46        •28               10                           Cloudy
          25       46    51     40        •25               18                           Cloudy
          26       40    44     38        •34              31                            Cloudy
                                                                                                    '
                                                                                                        >
               N. B. The barometer's height        is   taken                    «       r.oaa.

                                   [    289    ]
    LIV.    On Transit Instruments.            By Ez. WALKER, Esq.
                               To   Mr. Tilloch.
         SIR,
   ASTRONOMERS          have, in all ages, been very attentive to the
  construction     of instruments for determining the exact time
  when the sun, or any other celestial luminary, passes over
  the meridian.       The best instrument that has yet been in
  vented for this purpose, is the transit telescope; but the
  difficulty of procuring       a    proper foundation to fix it upon,
  and   the expense      of  fitting it up, must render its use ex
  tremely limited.       Clocks and watches may be regulated for
  occasional observations, by means of equal altitudes of the
  sun or stars,     taken   either with       an  astronomical     quadrant
  or a Hadley-s sextant : hut these methods are very incon
  venient for keeping the daily rate of a time-keeper, in con
  sequence of the length of the calculations, and the time that
  is required for taking the observations.               Hence it may be
  presumed, that an instrument for finding the exact time of
  noon in an easy manner, is still wanted, to supply the place
  of the transit telescope.
     The method       used in former ages for          resolving this pro
  blem    has,   perhaps, been         too much      neglected    since the
  time that the science         of optics     began to    receive  so many
  improvements.         The method          to   which   I  allude   is that
  of finding    a   meridian line        by means of the sun-s rays
  transmitted     through    a small      circular aperture made in a
  piece   of metal.     In this manner, a kind of transit instru
  ment may be constructed, at a small expense, in many situa
  tions that afford no foundation for a transit telescope, and
  to a greater Degree    of accuracy than may, perhaps,            be gene
  rally supposed.
     Having,    some years ago, drawn a line by this method,
  and   being desirous to know how far it deviated from the
  true meridian, 1 took 14 equal altitudes of the sun from the
  surface of a fluid with one of Mr. Stancliffe-s best 1 2-inch
  sextants.    The time of noon, derived from                 the  mean of
•
     Vol. S4. No. 96. May 1806.                  T                     those

                              On Transit Instruments.
those observations,  differed only 2-27" from the time that
the sun passed over the meridian line on the same day.
   But in order to observe the sun-s transit over the meridian
with        greater precision,           I   drew two other lines on each side
or" the meridian line, which were parallel to    and at such         it,
distances, that the interval of time taken   one of the limbs  by
of the sun-s image was about 40 seconds in passing from
one line to another, when the sun was near the equator.
Those who are at all acquainted with the use of the transit
telescope, will be at no loss to comprehend the use of these
lines;  and those who may want directions for the use                                           of
that instrument, may consult treatise on the method
                                                 a                                              of
finding the longitude at                 sea   by   time-keepers, written     the      by
late    Mr. William Wales.                     To    those directions  shall only
                                                                         I
add,        that   the      room    in   which      the lines are drawn must not
be made too dark during                      the time   of observing,        as                ne
                                                                                       by is
                                                                                  it
cessary        to see the lines before               they are illuminated                      the
sun-s image.
   When the solar rays, that flow through    small circular          a
aperture into  room, are received upon the floor, an ellip
                        a
tical image will be formed, consisting of   bright central          a
image, and     penumbra surrounding it.
                        a                 This penumbra
renders the contact                of   the sun-s image     with     a    line less cer
tain  but, notwithstanding this inconvenience,
        :                                         am con                  I
vinced that an experienced observer, under favourable cir
cumstances, will generally determine the time of the sun-s
passage over the meridian line to one-fifth                         of   a   second, or
less,       when the distance between                 the aperture       and the sun-s
image on the floor measures about 12 feet.     Further parti
culars respecting the construction and use of instruments ot
this description will be submitted to your inspection at some
future opportunity.
                                   I     am, sir,
                                               Your most humble servant,
                                                                     Ez. WALKER.
I.ynn, May         8,
                                                                          LV.     Account

                                [     291    ]
LV.    Account     of a   Series      of Experiments, showing the
   Effects   of Compression        in modifying the Action of Heat.
   By Sir JAMES HALL, Bart.                F.R.S. Edin.
                        [Continued     from p. 203.]
IV.   Experiments      in Gun- Barrels         resumed.   — The    Vertical
   Apparatus applied to       them. — Barrels        bored in solid Bars.
   — Old     Sable  Iron. — Fusion of the Carbonate of Lime. —
   Its Action on Porcelain. —Additional Apparatus required
   in consequence of that Action. — Good Results ; in parti
   cular, four Experiments illustrating the Theory of In
   ternal Calcination, and sliowing the Efficacy of the Car-
   Ionic Acid as a Flux.
OINCE      I found that,, with porcelain tubes, I could neither
confine the carbonic acid entirely, nor expose the carbonate
in them to strong heats, I at last determined to lay them
aside, and return to barrels          of iron, with which       I had for
merly obtained some good results, favoured, perhaps, by
some accidental circumstances.
   On    the  12th  of February        1803,   I began a series   of expe
riments with gun-barrels, resuming my former method of
working with the fusible metal, and with lead ; but altering
the position of the barrel from horizontal to vertical, the
breech    being placed    upwards during the action of heat on
the carbonate.      This very simple improvement             has been pro
ductive of advantages no less remarkable than in the case of
the tubes of porcelain.           In this new position, the included
air, quitting the air tube on the fusion of the metal, and
rising to the breech, is exposed to the greatest heat of the
furnace, and must therefore re-act with its greatest force;
whereas, in the horizontal position, that air might go as far
back   as the fusion of the metal reached, where its elasticity
 \vould be much feebler.            The same disposition enabled me
 to keep the muzzle of the barrel plunged, during the action
of heat, in     a vessel   filled with water;          which contributed
 very much both to the convenience and                 safety of these ex
 periments.
    In this view, making            use  of the brick furnace with       the
                                     T   2                          vertical

S92               Effects      of Heat            modified,    ly Compression.
vertical muffle, already described in page 197, I ordered a
pit (a a a, fig. 20.) to be excavated under  for the purpose              it,
of receiving            a   water vessel.               This     vessel    (represented        sepa
rately, fig. 21.) was made                         of cast iron;          it   was three inches
in diameter, and three feet deep and had pipe (de) striking
                                                         ;                a
off from     at right angles, four or five inches below its rim,
                 it
communicating with cup (ef) at the distance of about two
                                         a
feet.  The main vessel being placed in the pit (a«) directly
below the vertical muffle, and the cup standing clear of the
furnace, water poured into the cup flowed into the vessel,
and could thus conveniently be made to stand at any level.
(The whole arrangement       represented in fig. 20.)
                                                   is  The
muzzle of the barrel (g) being plunged into the water, and
its breech (//) reaching up into the muffle, as far as was found
convenient, its position was secured        an iron chain (gf).     by
The     heat communicated                         downwards generally kept the sur
face    of       the       water (at  of ebullition; the waste
                                             c)   in   a state
thus occasioned being supplied by means of the cup, into
which,           if
           necessary,    constant stream could be made to
                                         a
flow.
   As formerly,    rammed the carbonate into     tube of porce                  a
lain, and placed             it I
                        cradle of iron, along with an air-tube
                                    in   a
and   pyrometer; the cradle being fixed to
        a                                     rod of iron,                      a
which rod   now judged proper to make as large as the bar
                  I
rel would admit, in order to exclude as much of the fusible
metal       as   possible      ;    for the expansion of the liquid metal being
in proportion               to the quantity heated,     the mote that quantity
could be reduced, the less risk there was of destroying the
barrels.
   In       the       course    of practice,             a   simple mode occurred of re
moving           the       metal and withdrawing                  the cradle   consisted
                                                                                    :   it
in placing             the barrel            with its muzzle downwards,                      so as to
keep the breech abov the furnace and cold, while its muzzle
was exposed to strong heat in the muffle.    In this manner
the metal was  discharged from the muzzle, and the position
of the barrel being lowered                             by
                               degrees, the whole metal was
removed in succession, till at last the cradle and its contents
became entirely loose.  As the metal was delivered          was                               it
received          in   a   crucible filled with water, standing on                           a   plate
                                                                                                    of

              Effects   of Heat  modified by Compression.             293
of iron    placed over the pit, which had been used, during the
first stage of the experiment, to contain the water vessel.
It   was found to be of service, especially where lead was used,
to give much more heat to the muzzle than simply what
was required to liquefy the metal it contained ; for when
this was not done, the muzzle growing cold as the breech
was heating, some of the metal delivered from the breech
was congealed" at the muzzle,        so as to stop the passage.
    According     to this method, many experiments were made
in gun-barrels,        by which some very material steps wete
gained    in the investigation.
    On the 24th of February I made an experiment with spar
and chalk ; the spar being placed nearest to the breech of
the barrel, and       exposed   to the greatest    heat,    some   baked
clay intervening between the carbonates. On opening the
barrel, a long continued hissing noise was heard. The spar
was in a state of entire calcination ; the chalk, though
crumbling       at the outside, was uncommonly            hard and firm
in    the heart.    The  temperature    had risen to 32°.
     In this experiment we        have the   first clear example, in
 iron barrels, of what        I call internal calcination ; that is to
 say, where the carbonic acid, separated from the earthy basis,
 has been accumulated in cavities within the barrel.                 For,
 subsequently to the action of strong heat, the barrel had
 been completely cooled ; the air, therefore, introduced by
 means    of  the air tube, must have resumed         its original  bulk,
 and by itself could have       no tendency to rush out       ; the heat
 employed to open the barrel being barely sufficient to soften
  the metal.      Since, then, the opening of the barrel was ac
  companied by the discharge of elastic matter in great ;ibun-
  dance, it is evident that this must have proceeded from
  something superadded to the air originally included, which
  could be nothing but the carbonic acid of the carbonate. It
  follows, that     the calcination   had   been,  in   part at least, in
  ternal ; the separation     of the acid from the earthy matter
  being complete      where  the  heat was strongest, and only par
  tial where the intensity was less.
     The chemical principles stated in a former part of this
  paper, authorised us to expect a result of this kind.                 As
                                   T  3                               heat,

  294         Effects   of Heat modified ly  Compression.
   heat, by increasing the volatility of the acid, tended to se
   parate it from the earth, we had reason to expect, that,
   under the same compression, but in different temperatures,
   one portion of the carbonate might be calcined, and another
   not : and that the least heated of the two would be least ex
   posed to a change, not only from want         of heat, but likewise
   in  consequence of the calcination of the other mass ; for the
   carbonic acid disengaged by the calcination of the hottest
   of the two, must have added to the elasticity of the confined
   elastic fluid,   so as to produce an increase     of compression.
   By this    means    the calcination of the coldest of the two
   might be altogether prevented, and lhat       of the hottest might
   be hindered from       making   any further advancement.       This
   reasoning seemed to explain       the  partial calcinations which
   had frequently occurred where       there was no proof of leak
   age ; and it opened some new practical views in these expe
   riments,    of which I availed myself without loss of time. If
   the internal calcination of one part of an inclosed mass pro
  motes the compression of other masses included along with
  it, I conceived that      we might forward our views very much
  by placing a small quantity of carbonate, carefully weighed,
  in   the same barrel with a large quantity of that substance ;
  and    by arranging matters so that the small fiducial part
  should undergo a moderate heat, while a stronger heat, ca
  pable of producing internal calcination, should be applied to
  the rest    of  the  carbonate.   In this manner I      made many
  experiments, and obtained results which seemed to confirm
  this reasoning, and which were often very satisfactory,
  though the heat did not always exert its greatest force where
  I  intended it to do so.
      On   the   28th of February I introduced some carbonate,
- accurately weighed, into a small porcelain tube, placed
  within a larger one, the rest of the large tube being rilled
  -with pounded      chalk; these carbonates, together with some
  pieces   of  chalk,  placed along with the large tube in the cra
  dle, weighing in all 195-7 grains.         On opening the barrel,
  air rushed out with a long-continued hissing noise. The
  contents of the little tube were lost by the intrusion of some
  borax which       had  been introduced over the silex in order to
                                                              exclude

              Effects   of Heal modified ly              Compression.                   295
exclude the fusible metal.             But the rest          of      the carbonate,
contained in the large tube, came out in a fine state, being
porous and frothy throughout ; sparkling every where with
facettes, the angular form of which was distinguishable in
some of the cavities by help of a lens : in some parts the
substance     exhibited the rounding of fusion                   ;   in many it         was
in   a highdegree transparent.                  It   was yellow           towards the
lower end, and at the other almost colourless. At the upper
end the carbonate seemed to have united with the tube, and
at the places       of contact    to have spread upon                    it,   the union
having the appearance            of   a   mutual action.                  The     general
mass  of carbonate effervesced     acid violently, but the thin
                                           in
stratum immediately contiguous to the tube, feebly,       at all.              if
   On the 3d of March        introduced into
                             I                   very clean tube.
                                                             a
of porcelain 36-8 of chalk.                The       tube was placed                  in the
upper part of the cradle, the remaining space being filled
with two pieces of chalk, cut for the purpose the upper                  ;
most of these being excavated, so as to answer the purpose
of an air-tube. The pieces thus added were computed to
weigh about 300 grains.               There was no pyrometer used, but
the heat was guessed to he about 30°.    After the barrel had
stood during   few minutes
                   a            its delivering position, the
                                          in
whole lead, with the rod and cradle, were thrown out with
asmart report, and with considerable force. The lowermost
pieceof chalk had scarcely              been acted upon                  by    The
                                                                              heat.
upper part of the other piece             was in     a   state    of marble, with
some remarkable facettes.              The      carbonate        in the little tube
had shrunk very much during the first action of heat, and
had begun to sink upon itself by further advancement to
                                                 a
wards liquefaction. The mass was divided into several cy
linders, lying confusedly upon each other    this division           ;
arising from the manner in which the pounded chalk was
rammed into the tube in successive portions.    In several
places, particularly at the top, the carbonate was very
porous, and full of decided air-holes, which could not have
been formed but in     soft substance; the globular form and
                         a
shining surface of all these cavities clearly indicating fusion.
The     substance     was semi-transparent in some places yel
                                                      ;
low, and      in   some colourless. When broken, the solid parts
                                      T   4                                           showed

295        Effects         of Heat modified ly             Compression.
showed a saline fracture, composed of innumerable facettes.
The carbonate adhered, from end to end, to the tube, and
incorporated with            it,
                       so as to render   impossible to ascer
                                                          it
tain what loss had been sustained.     In general, the line of
contact was       of   a   brown colour        ;   yet there      was      no room for
suspecting the presence              of any foreign matter, except,                         per
haps, from the iron rod which was used in ramming down
the chalk. But, in subsequent experiments,  have observed         I
the same brown or black colour at the union of the carbo
nate   with    porcelain tubes, where the powder had been
                 the
purposely rammed with       piece of wood
                                      a      so that this co     ;
lour, which  has occurred      almost every similar case, re
                                          in
mains to be accounted for. The carbonate effervesced vio
lently with acid  the substance in contact with the tube
                        ;
doing" so, however, more feebly than                       in   the heart, leaving                a
copious deposit of white sandy matter, which     doubtless                is                  a
part of the tube, taken up   the carbonateby  fusion.                in
  On the 24th of March made         similar experiment in
                                      I             a                                         a
stout gun-barrel, and took some care, after the application
of heat, to cool the barrel slowly, with view to crystallizaa
tion. The whole mass was found in        fine state, and una
touched      by
             the lead  having   ; semi-transparent and saline
                                               a
structure, with various facettes.   In one part    found the               I
most decided           crystallization     I       had    obtained, though of                 a
small size   :    owing to its transparency                it was not easily                 vi
sible till the light was made to reflect from the crystalline
surface, which then produced    dazzle, very observable
                                                a                                             by
the naked eye      :    when examined               by   means    of      a    lens,   it   was
seen to be composed             of
                                 plates, broken irregularly in
                                     several
the fracture of the specimen, all of which are parallel to each
other, and reflect under the same angle, so as to unite                                       in
producing the dazzle. This structure was observable equally
well in both parts of the broken specimen.                            In   a   former ex
periment, as large   facctte was obtained
                            a                piece of solid      in   a
chalk  but this result was of more consequence, as having
       ;
been produced from chalk previously pounded.
  The foregoing experiments                    proved     the superior efficacy               of
iron vessels over -those            of porcelain,        even where the thickness
was not great      ;     and I      persevered      in making          a      great    many
                                                                              experiments

             Effects of Heat modified ly     Compression.        297
experiments with gun-barrels, by which I occasionally ob
tained very fine results : but I was at last convinced that
their thickness was not sufficient to ensure regular and
steady success.      For this purpose it    appeared proper to em
ploy vessels of such strength,       as to bear a greater  expansive
force than was just necessary       ; since, occasionally (owing to
our ignorance of the relation between the various forces of
expansion, affinity, tenacity, &c.), much more strain has
been given to the vessels than was requisite.         In such cases
barrels have been destroyed, which, as the results have
proved, had acted with sufficient strength during the first
 stages of the experiments, though they had been unable to
 resist the subsequent overstrain. Thus my success with gun-
barrels depended on the good fortune of having used a force
 no more than sufficient to constrain the carbonic acid, and
 enable it to act     as a  flux on the lime.     I therefore deter
 mined to have        recourse to iron barrels     of much    greater
 strength, and tried various modes of construction.
     I had some barrels executed by wrapping a thick plate         of
 iron round a mandrel, as is practised in the formation             of
 gun-barrels    ; and   likewise by bringing the two flat sides to
 gether, so as to unite        them by welding.     These attempts,
  however, failed.       I next thought of procuring bars of iron,
  and of having a cavity bored out of the solid, so as to form
  a barrel.    In this manner I succeeded well. The first barrel
  I tried  in this way    was  of small bore, only half  an inch : its
  performance was highly satisfactory, and such as to con
  vince me, that the mode now adopted was the best of any
  that  I had tried. Owing to the smallness of the bore, a py
  rometer could not be used internally, but was placed upon
  the breech of the barrel, as it stood in the vertical muffle.
  In this position it was evidently exposed to a much less heat
  than the fiducial part of the apparatus, which was always
  placed, as nearly as could be guessed, at the point of greatest
  heat.
      On the 4th of April an experiment was made in this way
   with some spar, the pyrometer on the breech giving 33°.
  The spar fame out clean, and free from any contamination,
                                                             adhering

 298        Effects  of Heat modified ly      Compression.
adhering to the inside of the porcelain tube : it was very
much shrunk, still retaining a cylindrical form, though
bent by partial adhesions. Its surface bore scarcely any re
mains of the impression taken by the powder on ramming
it into the tube : it had, to the naked eye, the roughness and
semi-transparency of the pith of a rush stripped of its outer
skin. By the lens this same surface was seen to be glazed
all over, though irregularly, showing here and there some
air-holes.     In fracture it was semi-transparent, more vi
treous than crystalline,       though having a few facettes : the
mass was seemingly formed          of a congeries of parts, in them
selves quite transparent ; and, at the thin edges, small pieces
-were visible  of perfect transparency.         These must have been
produced in the fire; for the spar           had been ground with
water, and passed through sieves,          the same with the finest
of thosa   used at  Etruria, as described by Mr. Wedgewood,
in his  paper  on  the  construction of his pyrometer.
   With the same barrel I obtained many interesting results,
giving as strong proofs of fusion as in any former experi
ments;     with this remarkable difference, that, in these last,
the substance     was compact,      with little or no   trace of froth
ing.     In the gun-barrels where fusion had taken place,
there   had   always been a loss of 4 or 5 per cent., con
nected, probably, with the frothing.            In these experiments,
for a reason soon to be stated, the circumstance of weight
could not be observed      ;   but appearances    led me to suppose,
that here the loss had been small,        if any.
   On   the 6th   of April   I  made   another experiment with the
square barrel, whose thickness was now much reduced by
successive scales, produced by oxidation, and in which a
small rent began to appear externally,           which did not, how
ever,   penetrate   to the bore.     The   heat   rose high,   a pyro
meter on the breech of the barrel giving 37°. On removing
the metals, the cradle was found to be fixed, and was broken
in the attempts     made    to withdraw     it.   The rent was much
widened externally : but it was evident that the barrel had
 not been laid open, for part of the carbonate was in a state
 of saline marble ; another was hard and white, without any
                                                                  saline

             Effects of Heat    modified     ly  Compression.        299
saline grains, and scarcely effervesced in acid. It was pro
bably quicklime, formed by internal calcination, but in a
state that has not occurred        in any other experiment.
    The workman whom I employed to take out the remains
of the cradle, had cut off a piece from the breech of the bar
rel, three or four inches in length.            As I was examining the
crack which was seen in this piece, I was surprised to see
the inside of the barrel lined with a set of transparent and
well denned crystals,      of small size,       yet visible by the naked
eye.     They lay together      in   some     places,  so as to cover the
surface of the iron with a transparent coat ; in others they
were detached, and scattered over the surface.                  Unfortu
nately, the quantity of this substance was too small to admit
of much chemical examination; but I immediately ascer
tained that it did not in the least effervesce in acid, nor did
it  seem to dissolve   in it.    The crystals     were in general trans
parent and colourless,       though a few of them were tinged
seemingly with iron.          Their form was very well defined,
being flat, with oblique angles, and bearing a strong resem
blance to the crystals of the lamellated stylbite of Haiiy.
Though made above two years ago, they still retain their
form     and   transparency unchanged.              Whatever this sub
stance may be, its appearance,            in this experiment, is in the
highest degree interesting,         as it seems to afford an example
of the mode in which Dr. Hutton                 supposes many internal
cavities to have been         lined,     by   the  sublimation of sub
stances in a state    of vapour, or held in solution by matters
in   a gaseous form.     For, as the crystals adhered to a part of
the barrel, which must have been occupied by air during the
action of heat, it seems next to certain that they %vere pro
duced by sublimation.
    The very powerful effects produced by this last barrel, the
size of which (reduced, indeed, by repeated oxidation) was
not above an inch square, made me very anxious to obtain
barrels of the same substance, which, being made of greater
size, ought to afford results of extreme interest. I found,
upon inquiry, that this barrel was not made of Swedish iron,
 as  I at first supposed, but      of what is Known by       the name   of
old sable,    from the figure     of a   sable stamped upon the bars ;
                                                                      that

30O                  Effects    of Heat modified ty                    Compression.
that being the armorial badge of the place in Siberia where
this iron is made*.
   A workman explained to me some of the properties of
different kinds of irons, most interesting in my present pur
suit ; and he illustrated what he said by actual trial.   AH
iron, when             exposed to a certain heat,                       crushes and crumbles
under the hammer;     but the temperature in which this hap
pens, varies with every different species. Thus, as he showed
me, cast iron crushes in a dull red heat, or perhaps about
15° of Wedgewood ; steel in a heat,                                   perhaps,    of 30°; Swe
dish iron, in a bright white heat,                                    perhaps    of 50° or 60° ;
old sable itself likewise yields, but in a much higher heat,
perhaps          of   100°.   I merely guessed at these temperatures ;
but      I    am     certain of this, that in a heat similar to that in
which Swedish iron crumbled                                under the hammer, the old
sable withstood                a strong blow,               and seemed to possess con
siderable firmness.   It is from a knowledge of this quality
that the blacksmith, when he first takes his iron from the
forge, and lays it on the anvil, begins by very gentle blows,
trtl the temperature has sunk to the degree in which the iron
can bear the hammer.                     I   observed,            as the     strong heat of the
forge acted on the Swedish iron,                                that it began to boil at the
surface, clearly indicating the discharge of some gaseous
matter; whereas, the old sable, in the same circumstances,
acquired the shining surface                          of
                                  a liquid, and melted away
withont                                           I
                               procured, at this time, a con
                 any effervescence.
siderable number of bars of that iron, which fully answered
my expectations.
     By        the        last mentioned, a very important
                      experrments
point               in this
              was gained     investigation ; the complete fusi
bility of the carbonate under pressure being therebv esta
blished.             But from this
                         very circumstance a necessity arose
of   adding some new devices to those already described.: for
the carbonate, in fusion, spreading itself on the inside                                    of     the
tube containing                it,   and the two uniting firmly together, so
a» to be quite inseparable,                   was impossible, after the ex
                                             it
periment,, to ascertain                 the    weight of the carbonate                      by   any
     *
     l       was favoured with this account           of   it   by   the late professor Robison.
                                                                                          method

              Effects    of Heat modified ly     Compression.               301
method previously used.           I   therefore determined in future
to adopt the following arrangement.
   A small lube of porcelain (ik, fig. 23.) was weighed by
means of a counterpoise of sand, or granulated tin ; then
the carbonate was firmly rammed into the tube, and the
whole weighed again     thus the weight of the carbonate,
                              :
previous to the experiment, was ascertained. After the ex
periment, the tube, with its contents, was again weighed ;
and the variation         of weight obtained, independently of any
mutual action  that had taken place between the tube and
the carbonate.    The balance which I used, turned, in
a constant and steady manner, with one hundredth of a
grain.  When pounded chalk was rammed into this tube,
I generally left part of it free, and in that space laid a small
piece of lump chalk (i), dressed to a cylinder, with the ends
cut flat and smooth ; and         I   usually cut   a   letter on each end,
the more effectually to observe the effects produced by heat
upon the chalk ; the weight of this piece of chalk being al
ways estimated along with that of the powder contained in
the tube. In some experiments I placed a cover of porce
lain on the muzzle of the little tube, (this cover being
weighed along with it,) in order to provide against the case
of ebullition : but as that did not often occur, I seldom took
the trouble of this last precaution.
   It         of consequence to protect the tube, thus pre
         was now
pared, from  being touched during the experiment by any
substance, above all by the carbonate of lime, which might
adhere      and thus confound the appreciation
             to   it,                                             by weight.
This was provided for as follows The small tube
                                             :
                                                                    (fig. 23.
 ik), with        its pounded carbonate (4), and its cylinder of
 lump chalk          (i), was dropt into large tube of porcelain
                                             a
 (pk, fig. 24).       Upon this     fragment of porcelain (I), of
                                      a
 such    a   size    not to fall in between the tubes, was laid.
                    as
 Then     a   cylinder of chalk (m) was dressed, so as nearly to
 fit and fill up the inside of the large tube, one end of being        it
 rudely cut into the form of        cone. This mass being then
                                       a
 introduced, with its cylindrical end downwards, was made
 to press upon the fragment of porcelain (/).        then dropped
                                                            I
 into    the space (w), between        the   conical     part   of this     mass
                                                                              and

   302           Effects   of Heat modified ly Compression.
   and the tube, a       set of fragments of chalk, of a size beyond
  what could possibly fall between the cylindrical part and the
  tube, and pressed them down with a blunt tool, by which the
  chalk being at the same time crushed and rammed into the
  angle, was forced into         a mass   of some solidity,  %vhich effectu
  ally prevented any thing from passing between the large mass
  of chalk and the tube. In practice, I have found this method
  always to answer, when done with care. I covered the chalk,
  thus rammed, with           a stratum of pounded flint (o), and that
  again with pounded chalk (p) firmly rammed. Inthismanner
  I filled the whole of the large tube with alternate layers of silex
  and chalk ; the muzzle            being always occupied, with chalk,
 which was easily pressed into a mass of tolerable firmness,
  and, suffering no change in very low heats, excluded the
 fusible metal in the first stages of the experiment.
     The large tube, thus filled, was placed in the cradle,
 sometimes with the muzzle                 upwards, and sometimes the
 reverse.       I have frequently altered my views as to that part
 of the arrangement, each mode possessing peculiar advan
 tages and       disadvantages.        With    the   muzzle upwards,     (as
 shown in fig. 24. and 25.) the best security is afforded against
 the intrusion of the fusible metal ; because the air, quitting
 the air-tube in the working position, occupies the upper
 part    of the    barrel  ;  and the fusible metal stands as a      liquid
 (at q, fig. 2.5.) below the muzzle of the tube, so that all
 communication is cut off between the liquid metal and the
inside of the tube.            On the other hand, by this arrange
ment, the small tube, which is the fiducial part of the ap
paratus, is placed at a considerable distance from the breech
of   the barrel, so as either to undergo less heat than the upper
part, or to render it necessary that the barrel be thrust high
into the muffle.
    With      the muzzle      of the large tube downwards, the inner
tube     is placed     (as  shown    in fig. 22.) so as still to have its
muzzle upwards, and in contact with the breech of the
large tube.         This has the advantage of placing the small
tube near to the         breech    of  the barrel  :  and though   there is
here     less   security against the       intrusion   of liquid metal,    I
have found that a point            of little consequence;     since, when
                                                                        the

              Effects   of Heat modified     by Compression.             303
the experiment is a good one, and that the carbonic acid
has been well confined, the intrusion seldom takes place in
any position.         In whichever of the two opposite positions
the large tube was placed, a pyrometer was always intro
duced, so as to lie as near as possible to the small tube.
Thus, in the first-mentioned position, the pyrometer was
placed immediately below the large tube, and, in the other
position, above it ; so that, in both cases, it was separated
from the carbonate by the thickness only of the two tubes.
     Much room was unavoidably occupied by this method,
 which necessarily obliged me to use small quantities of car
bonate ; the subject of experiment seldom weighing more
 than 10 or 12 grains, and in others far less*.
      On the 11th of April 1803, with a barrel of old sable
 iron, having a bore of 0*75 of an inch, I made an experi
 ment in which all these arrangements were put in practice.
 The large tube contained two small ones ; one filled with
 spar, and the other with chalk.              I conceived that the heat
 had risen to 33°, or somewhat higher.                     On melting the
 metals, the cradle was thrown out with considerable vio
 lence. The pyrometer, which, in this experiment, had been
 placed within the barrel, to my astonishment indicated 64°.
  Yet all was sound. The two little tubes came out quite
  clean and uncontaminated.               The spar had lost 17.0 per
  cent.: the chalk 10*7 per cent. The spar was half sunk
  down, and run against the side of the little tube : its surface
  was shining, its texture spongy, and it was composed of a
  transparent and jelly-like substance : the chalk was entirely
  in a state of froth. This experiment extends our power of
  action, by showing, that compression, to                a considerable de
  gree, can be carried on in so great a heat              as 64°.    It seems
  likewise to prove, that in some of the late experiments with
      * I measured the capacity of the air.tubes by means of granulated tin,
   acting as a fine and equal sand.    By comparing the weight of this tin with
  an equal bulk of water, I found that a cubic inch of it weighed 1330.6 grains,
  and that each grain of it corresponded to 0.00075 of a cubic inch. From
   these data I was able, with tolerable accuracy, to gauge a tube by weighing
   the tin required to fill it.
                                                                            the

  304                Effects   of Heat modified          by Compression.
  the square barrel,            the heat had been much higher than was
  supposed at the time, from                     the indication    of   the pyrometer
  placed       on the breech         of     the barrel ; and that in some               of
  them, particularly in the last, it must have risen at least as
  high   as     in   the present experiment.
      On       the    2 1 st   of April 1805,          a similar
                                              experiment was
 made with a new barrel, bored in a square bar of old sable
 of about two inches and a half in diameter, having its angles
 merely rounded, the inner tube being filled with chalk. The
 heat  was maintained during several hours, and the furnace
 allowed to burn out during the night.     The barrel had the
 appearance           of soundness, but            the metals      came off quietly,
 and the carbonate was entirely calcined, the pyrometer in
 dicating 63°.   On examination, and after beating off the
 smooth  and  even scale of oxide peculiar to the old sable,
 the barrel was found to have yielded                       in its peculiar manner ;
 that    is,   by    the   opening of     the longitudinal         fibres. This ex
 periment, notwithstanding the                       failure of the barrel, was one
 of the most interesting had made, since
                                   I        afTorded proof        it
 of complete fusion. The carbonate had boiled over the lips
of the little tube, standing,  just described, with its mouth
                                            as
upwards, and had run down to within half an inch of its
lower end   most of the substance was in frothy state, with
                :                                             a
large round cavities, and   shining surface
                                       a       in other parts      ;
it                 with angular masses, which have evi
     was interspersed
dently been surrounded      liquid in which they floated,
                                       by   a
It was harder,   thought, than
                           I    marble  giving no effer       ;
vescence,        and not turning red like quicklime                    in nitric acid,
which       seemed         to have   no effect upon          it   in   the lump.   It
was probably          a    compound of quicklime             with the substance
of   the tube.
     Withthe same barrel repaired, and with others like                            it,
many  similar experiments were made at this time with great
success; but to mention them 'in detail, would amount
nearly to  repetition of what has been said.
               a                               shall take               I
notice of only four of them, which, when compared toge
ther, throw much light on the theory of these operations,
and likewise          seem to establish          a   very important principle      in
                                                                            geology.
         7

           Effects of Heat modified      by Compression.          303
geology.     These four experiments differ from each other
 only in the heat employed, and in the quantity of air intro
duced.
   The first of these experiments was made on the 27th of
April 1803, in one of the large barrels of old sable, with all
the above-mentioned arrangements. The heat had risen,
 contrary to my intention, to 78° and 79°. The tubes came
out uncontaminated with fusible metal, and every thing bore
the appearance of soundness.          The contents of the little
tube, consisting of pounded chalk, and of a small piece of
lump chalk, came out clean, and quite loose, not having
adhered to the inside of the tube in the smallest degree.
There was   a loss of 41 per cent., and the calcination seemed
to be complete ; the substance, when thrown into nitric acid,
turning red, without effervescence, at first, though, after
lying a few minutes, some bubbles appeared.               According
to the method followed in all these experiments, and lately
described at length, (and shown in fig. 24. and 25.) the
large tube was filled over the small one, with various masses
of chalk, some in lump, and some rammed into it in pow
der; and in the cradle there lay some pieces of chalk, filling
up the space, so that in the cradle there was a continued
chain of carbonate     of four or  five inches    in length.     The
substance   was found to be less and       less calcined,  the more
it was removed      from the breech      of the barrel, where the
heat was greatest.     A  small piece of chalk, placed at the di
stance of half an inch from the small tube, had some saline
substance in the heart, surrounded and intermixed with
quicklime, distinguished by its dull white.            In nitric acid
this substance    became    red, but effervesced     pretty briskly ;'
the effervescence     continuing  till the whole was dissolved.
The next portion of chalk was in       a firm state   of limestone ;
and a lump of chalk in the cradle       was equal   in perfection to
anv marble    I have obtained by compression ; the two last-
mentioned pieces of chalk effervescing with violence in the
acid, and showing no redness when thrown into it. These
facts clearly prove that the calcination of the contents of
the small tube had been internal, owing to the violent heat
   Vol. 24. No. 96. May 1806.            U                     which

306                Effects   of Heat        modified by Compression.
which         had    separated       its acid from                               of
                                                               the most heated part
the carbonate,according to                       the theory already stated.    The
soundness of the barrel was                      proved by  the complete   state of
those carbonates                which      lay   in less heated parts.   The air-
tube in this experiment had a capacity of 0*29,                                nearly one-
third of       a   cuhjc inch.
   The second of these' experiments was made on the 29th
of April, in the same barrel with the last, after it had af
forded some good results. The air-tube was reduced to one-
third of its former bulk, that                   is,
                               to one-tenth of cubic inch.                 a
The heat rose to 60°. The barrel was covered externally
with      a   black spongy substance, the constant indication of
failure    ;   and   small drop of white metal made its appear
                      a
ance.         The cradle was removed without any explosion or
hissing.           The    carbonates        were entirely calcined.              The barrel
had yielded, but had                     resisted well at       first; for   the contents
of    the little tube            were      found in        a   complete state of froth,
and running with the porcelain.
  The third experiment was made on the 30th of April in
another similar barrel. Every circumstance was the same
as   in   the two last experiments,                    only that the air-tube was
now reduced              to half its last        bulk, that        is,
                                                                  to one-twentieth
of   a          A pyrometer was placed at each end of the
          cubic inch.
large tube. The uppermost gave 41°, the other only 15°.
The contents of the inner tube had lost 16 per cent., and
were reduced to    most beautiful state of froth, not very
                                a
much injured               by
                   the internal calcination,                             and indicating    a
thinner state of fusion than had appeared.
     The fourth experiment                   was made on the 2d              of May, like
the rest           in all respects, with      still smaller air-tube, of
                                                       a
0.0318,            being less than one-thirtieth of cubic inch.    a The
upper pyrometer gave 25°, and the under one 16°.                                          The
lowest masses of carbonate were scarcely affected                                    by   the
heat:       the contents            of    the little tube had lost 2.9 per cent.;
both the lump and the pounded chalk were in         fine saline              a
state, and  in several places  had run  and  spread upon the
inside of the tube, which     had not expected to see in such
                                           I
a low heat.    On the upper surface of the chalk rammed into
                                                                                          the

           Effects  of Heat modified ly      Compression.           307
the little tube, which    after  its introduction    had been wiped
smooth,    were a set  of white crystals, with shining        facettes,
large enough to be distinguished           by the naked      eye,   and
seeming to rise out of the mass           of carbonate.     I likewise
observed    that the solid mass on which these crystals stood
was uncommonly       transparent.                                  f
    In these four experiments the bulk       of the included air    was
successively diminished,     and by that means its elasticity        in
creased.     The consequence was, that in       the first experiment,
where that elasticity was the least, the carbonic acid was
allowed to separate from the lime, in an early stage of the
rising heat, lower than the fusing point of the carbonate,
and complete internal calcination was effected.             In the se
cond experiment, the elastic force being much greater, cal
cination was prevented, till the heat rose so high as to occa
sion the entire fusion of the carbonate, and its action on the
tube, before the carbonic acid was set at liberty by the failure
of the barrel. In the third experiment, with still greater
elastic force, the carbonate was partly constrained, and its
fusion accomplished, in a heat between 41° and 15°.                   In
the last experiment, where the force was strongest of all,
the carbonate was almost completely protected from decom
position by heat, in consequence of which it crystallized
and acted on the tube in a temperature between 25° and 16°.
On    the other hand, the efficacy       of the carbonic acid       as a
flux on the lime, and in enabling the carbonate to act as a
flux on other bodies, was clearly evinced ; since the first ex
periment proved, that quicklime, by itself, could neither be
melted, nor act upon porcelain, even in the violent heat of
79°; whereas, in the last experiment, where the carbonic acid
was retained, both     of these effects took place      in a very low
temperature.
                          [To be continued.]
                               U   2                        LVL     01-

                                           [   308    ]
LVI.        Observations and Advices                      respecting        Improveinents
     compatible          with      ttye quickest
                                     Manufacture                            of Muscovado
     Sugar,    and conducive to the Melioration of the Rum.                                 By
     BRYAN HIGGINS,                  M. D.*
OOUND cane-juice                 consists of water, sugar, deliquescent
sweet, herbaceous               matter, carbonic acid, and melasses acid:
and  some juices contain variable quantities of other ingre
dients, which are not yet to be noticed.
   In these pharmacentic ingredients subsist the primary
or chemical principles of many vegetable acids. But expe
rience shows, that the composition of attractive forces, re
sulting from such proportions of the principles as take place
in the recent juice, tend chiefly to the formation of an acid
similar to vinegar, and                   of an additional quantity of carbonic
acid and melasses acid.
     For in    the course            of 12 or 18 hours the juice mantles by
the rise and escape                of carbonic acid in the elastic state : at
an earlier period             it smells sour or       acetous    :   and by the effect
of   such delay on the sugar producible                       from      it,   it   is   certain
that there     is   an addition            to the original quantity              of the   me
lasses acid.
     This   last   is    the ingredient which most powerfully                       impedes
the crystallization                and    separation of the saccharine matter
from the deliquescent sweet                     and    mother-liquor             called me
lasses.       As   it    lessens the quantity         of saccharine crystals,              and
increases     that       of   melasses      mother-liquor;       and as       it   is   highly
probable that melasses contain the like acid                           as   a    constituent
principle,  give
              I   the temporary name of melasses acid.
                              it
   Herbaceous matter   that of which some part shows itself
                                     is
in the yawing, and more in the boiling of juice which had
been cleared from gross filth  filtration.       by
                                                that which             It   is
we endeavour to separate from the saccharine liquor yaw                             by
ing and skimming.
  The herbaceous matter has some analogy to gummy re
sins, but has            a    much nearer          similitude,       in chemical cha
racter, to the dregs of refined indigo, or that vegetable sub-
  * From Part       I.   of Dr. Higgim-s Observations, &c. published in Iamaica.
                                                                                        stance

              On the Manufacture    of Muscovado Sugar.            309
 stance     which   constitutes the chief difference between the
 finest and the basest indigo.
    The    herbaceous   matter of cane-juice, like that of indigo,
 varies with the constitution of the plant in different soils and
 seasons,    and especially in respect to its solubility ;  insomuch
 that some juices hold about -j^dth part of it in strict solu
 tion after boiling-, while others hold not IOOOdth.
    But   as  herbaceous matter is rendered more soluble by the
intervention      of carbonic acid, any cane-juice holds more
herbaceous matter in solution before it has been heated, than
it can retain at the temperature of yawing or boiling.
    For in the augmented temperature the carbonic acid for
sakes the herbaceous matter to combine with that which
makes the acid aeriform ; the minute gaseous bubbles in
their escape agitate and impel the particles lately thrown out
of solution, until in their coalescence they become not only
visible but large.      We may    express this change    in  the clear
recent   juice by the agency of fire alone,    as the workmen do,
by saying the liquor breaks.
    Fresh cane-juice begins to break when the heat approaches
to 140 degrees       of Fahrenheit; and the herbaceous matter,
which has felt no greater heat, has an olive green colour.
    Whether this be exposed to greater heat, or we advert to
that which is thrown        out during the subsequent reduction
of   the   juice  to  sugar, the herbaceous matter is found to
change colour        with the increase of temperature, through
gradations     of yellow, olive, and brown, increasing in inten
sity and darkness until the matter is charred to blackness.
As it changes in colour it becomes less soluble. The car
bonic acid continues to escape, and the extricated herbaceous
matter accumulates to the surface, while the liquor is heated
to 195°.
    Now the watery vapour arising with the carbonic acid
bubbles, pushes the cleansed liquor frothing white through
intervals in the swollen scum. This, which is called yawing,
shows that     a greater  heal would cause   a boiling commotion     :
but if some time be allowed for the residuary carbonic acid
to escape, the liquor will not boil until this heat amounts to
206°, or within five degrees of the heat of boiling water.
                                U3                                The

310            On the Manufacture                    of Muscovado Sugar,
     The aeriform bubbles entangled in                                the herbaceous           matter
render it more buoyant than it would otherwise be, and en
able it to carry with                   it,
                           and to sustain at the surface, any
accidental filth of the liquor: and the scum thus produced
is   by   its own nature sufficiently tenacious to be separable by
the skimmer, or                  by   drawing away the depurated                        juice from
beneath        it.
     But,   if       the buoying bubbles be expelled                              by   greater      heat
and the commotion                     of boiling,        the scum          will   be broken into
the liquor.
   The skimmer will now avail nothing but the herbaceous               ;
matter, once thrown out of solution, will subside with the
filth, in        an hour,       quiescent liquor, and will
                                      tin   a    cooling
leave   transparent, although
          it                   still retain that quantity of
                                                        it
herbaceous matter, which the water, with the last adherent
portions       of carbonic acid,                  can dissolve.
     But    as       this depuration               by   subsidence cannot be awaited
without injury to the juice, the foul scum ought to be re
moved before the liquor boils.
   In consequence of this limited solubility, the residuary
herbaceous matter becomes extricated afterwards in quan
tity proportionate to that                       of the watery solvent which                       is   ex
pelled      by
          evaporation,                        and the reduced           liquor becomes tur
bid    by
       the extricated herbaceousparticles.
  However often the process of evaporation     stopped, and                       is
the liquor   depuraled to perfect transparency,
                      is                              subsi                                   by
dence or otherwise,     will become    turbid
                                            itagain,     the                                       by
deposition            of    dregs, when the evaporation
                            herbaceous                                                                   is
renewed        ;  will thus
                     and    yield dregs to the end, or until
                           it
the residuary liquor becomes so far saturated with sugar as
to be incapable of holding the less soluble herbaceous matter
in solution.
     All this         takes       place         whether      a   moderate         dose    of   temper
be used or not.                  But        the cleansing        by   subsidence         is   quickest
when temper                is   used.
     To    ascertain        the true use            of temper, we must                 advert to its
agency on herbaceous                          matter, carbonic acid, and melasses
acid.
     Lime powerfully                    attracts      carbonic         acid: and although
                     7                                                                lime

           On llie Manufacture        of Muscovado Sugar.            311
lime be a soluble body, and although it meet the acids in the
aeriform state, it forms with it quickly an insoluble body
similar to whiting or chalk.
    Lime    also  combines with       a   triple or quadruple quantity    \
of  herbaceous     matter to form      a  compound less soluble than
the latter in water     ;  and in cane-juice,       lime meeting car
bonic acid and herbaceous matter, unites with both to form
a triple compound.         For if the lime used in clariOers were
to unite with the carbonic acid only, we should find bottoms
consisting of whiting, which          I  have   looked for, but could
 never obtain.
    It is by virtue  of   these   relations that    a  small quantity of
lime, or transparent lime water in which the lime can be
only -i-jhrth part of the whole, when added to cane-juice that
has been duly cleared, renders it presently turbid with her
baceous matter now extricated, and thus facilitates the abs
 traction of this matter by subsidence. Thus, also, cane-
juice which is a little wheyey or clouded is broken to floc-
culence by transparent lime water as well as by lime.
    I say the liquor is broken to flocculence when the parti
cles of herbaceous matter, seized by those of the 'lime, and
coalescing, appear large and flocculent ; and the liquor in
terceding them is seen quite transparent when viewed by
transmitted light in the narrow part of a wine-glass.
    This breaking may also be distinguished in a btight silver
 spoonful of the liquor by reflected light.
    On these grounds some lime ought to be added to cane-
juice which contains the ordinary quantity of herbaceous
 matter, not with the vain hope of separating all the herba
ceous    matter at once, but with the experienced certainty
 that the  liquor yawed or cleansed with the aid of lime, will
 contain less herbaceous matter in solution than it would
otherwise have retained, ^and will require the less additional
 lime to act on the melasses acid.
    Towards the kind of depuration which can be effected in
 the process of yawing, lime thus contributes something, but
not nearly so much as has been generally supposed : for a
quantity     of lime which     is sufficient to give a nauseous     taste
                                   U4                                  to

312               On the Manufacture                     of Muscovado Sugar.
to the sugar, is yet incompetent to the extrication of all the
herbaceous matter, so that it shall be separable by yawing or
subsidence : and an excess of lime, not greater than To'6 bdth
or    a   0'b   6dth   of          juice,
                            the weight        of     the
                                             constantly attended         is
with       a                      of the colour of the sugar,
                 manifest debasement
when this excess takes place in the beginning of the boiling,
or previous to the reduction of the juice by evaporation.      It
is of no practical use  to inquire after every agency      which                                by
the excess of lime has these effects       but      expedient to     ;         it   is
observe, that when     juice    yawed with excess of lime, and
                                                 by is
                                   a
cleared   to transparency     subsidence, which soon takes
place  in   specimen quickly
                 a           cooled  in   wine-glass,   will             a                           it
 show colour approaching to that of porter while the like                          ;
juice, treated in the same way, but with only       moderate                              a
dose      of temper, will           be almost colourless when transparent.
     It   is     moreover to be observed                       in ordinary practice, that
when too much temper has been used                                            in   the yawing,            the
liquor, during      boiling  the                         of    the    teaches,           looks       much
browner  than that which has been less tempered.   The
scum has     darker colour, and
                       a         more apt to break and         is
sink into the liquor    and    has less of the tenacity and floc-
                                   ;          it
culence           by
             which ordinary scum clings on the skimming
instrument, and      separableis   the common process.   by
     The practical inference from all                                these     facts      is,   that the
temper ought to be used sparingly in the raw juice in the
operation of yawing, although   should be found necessary it
to use more temper afterwards, for purposes different from
those lately recited.
  It    chiefly
          is                by
                  reason of the agency of the temper on the
melasses acid, or on that matter which most powerfully im
pedes the separation                   of   the sugar from the melasses mother-
liquor, that the temper  eminently useful in the manufac
                                            is
ture of Muscovado sugar, and that greater quantities of
                                                                                                           it it
may be advantageously employed, provided the whole of
be not administered at once, and at the period                                         of   the manu
facture in which      apt to colour the juice, to lessen the
                              it   is
buoyancy and tenacity of the scum, and to frustrate the
labour of the skimmer.   Among the signs which may guide
                                                                                                          an

            On the Manufacture             of Muscovado Sugar.                313
                          in respect to the doses of temper,
an intelligent sugar-boiler
those which correspond with the foregoing observations are
the simplest and most certain.
   When the artist knows that the quantity useful in yawing
i§   less than is necessary    bold grain and speedy curing
                                 for   a
of the sugar, and is apprised of the practicability of abstract
ing all the temper that may be used afterwards in the teaches,
he will not err by excess of temper in the first process.
   Supposing that he tempers in a grand boiler, or uses a
clarifier to the same effect, he will introduce a quantity of
temper rather too small than too great, when the vessel has
received  three-fourths of its charge. He will yaw and check
the fire and skim, and then boil moderately and skim for
eight or ten minutes.     He will then take a wine-glass full
of the liquor, and         if,
                        after cooling  little,  looks wheyey
                                                 a          it
and not broken, he will use one-sixth or one-fourth                          of the
first quantity of lime, and will immediately take  fresh                 a
sample. When the liquor appears broken, and clears with
little or no colour,       he has      hit
                                         quantity which
                                             the precise                         is
compatible with the cleanness and whiteness of the sugar,
and which goes nearest to the whole quantity to be used for
the perfection of the grain.
     By           ladle-proof he will soon ascertain the addi
          the usual
tional quantity of temper to be used in the inspissated liquor,
iu the manner presently to be described.
     He that will not follow this rule may                 take   a   grosser, by
using three-fourths of the temper in                      the yawing, and the
remainder in the inspissated liquor.
   It has not been unusual for the boilers to put temper                         in
the second and first teach, when the proof         the ladle      by
showed that the temper used in yawing was not sufficient
for the granulation of the sugar.  Such temper there used
was the least injurious to the colour of the sugar; but as
none of     could now be separated
            it                                       by
                                       skimming from the
thick syrup,   manifestly adulterated the sugar, and increased
                 it
the quantity of filth to be seen in solution of it.
                                               a
   But no such objection lies against the free use of temper
in the syrup, provided we can extract all this temper and all
the filth which    catches, and advance the syrup transparent
                      it
                                                                               and

314                On the Manufacture              of Muscovado Sugar.
and clear, to yield sugar                      emulating if not equalling ordinary
coarse lump sugar, for general use, without abatement                                            of   the
described           celerity in the transition from the raw juice to
sugar.             For, in a just comparison of sugars to be used ceco-
nomically, we are to advert, not merely to the degrees of
whiteness, which may be varied by the size of the grain, but
chiefly to the cleanness of equal solutions, and the sweeten
ing effects of portions equal in dryness and in weight.
   The common use of yellow sugar-candy, on the continent
of Europe especially, shows that it is not the colour of good
Muscovado sugar which has impeded the consumption of it
in the crude state.  It is truly the filth which appears in a
solution of     which has forbidden the culinary use of
                         it,                                                                           it,
and depreciated                      so far below lump sugar                  and            in   con
                                                                                         by is
                                it                                        ;         it
sequence           of the cleaning              by   filtration, rather than                     reason
of   the blanching                   by   breaking the grain and              by    claying, that
the lump sugar has such preference                                and greater price.
     It   is   this filth, also, which                   compels the sugar refiner in
Europe to use ox blood                         in   quantity proportionate to the im
purity of the Muscovado sugar  and to encounter the labour
                                                         ;
and waste attending the abstraction of the sweets from the
abundant scum, consisting of the heterogeneous matter en
tangled in the filaments of coagulated blood  and     the                      ;           it    is
chief     cause      of his inability               to give   a  price for dry Muscovado
sugar, nearer                  to that at which               he .sells the ordinary lump
sugar.
                          Of     the Improvement              of   Filtration.
      will therefore be the first of all services for this island,
     It
and    will be the most desirable character of Jamaica sugar,
tfnt  it it
        be made clean      the mere mean-sly     lime and filtra         of
tion, which are employed          the manufacture of the finest
                                                    in
lump sugar;                and, until this character                is   established, little or
nothing out;ht to be said concerning the other tempers and
expedients which may be advantageously used in particular
circumstances.
   As the true meaning of the word filtration   not under                        is
stood      all, and doubts and controversies may arise from
              by
the mere abuse or misconception of the term,            expe                          it    is
dient that     should be defined
                    it              manner suitable to all the
                                                         in   a
                                                                                      workmen,

           On the Manufacture of Muscovado Sugar.                          3 15
workmen,        to whom these pages may ultimately be commu
nicated.
  When            liquor is passed through a fine wire sieve,
              a foul
or through a blanket, which stops the coarse filth, but not
the finer, and where the liquor so treated still remains
clouded or turbid, this is called straining: but when a me
dium, such as close cloth or unsized paper, is used, and this
stops all extricated filth and passes the liquor transparent,
the process is called filtration.
   In the refineries in Europe a blanket serves as a filter,
but not before the filth of the solution of Muscovado sugar
has    been     entangled in flocks of coagulated ox blood, too
large to pass through the interstices    of a blanket.
  The     use   of such    a    woollen    strainer has been tried in this
island, but is generally abandoned for good reasons.
   A blanket only strains the boiled cane-juice, while                        it
passes with the velocity necessary for the manufacture                       of
good Muscovado sugar. When the interstices of the blan
ket are narrowed by coarse flocculent filth, and when it be
gins to filtrate truly, the process becomes so slow as to re
tard the manufacture intolerably : the last portions refuse to
pass    through;       the quantity       of   sweets    retained    in and on a
large thick blanket makes a great defalcation from the sugar,
and the cleansing of the cloth is laborious.
   To make the process of filtration applicable in the manu
facture of Muscovado sugar, it was necessary that a medium
should be employed capable of filtrating truly at the begin
ning.    It was equally necessary that the velocity of this                  fil
tration, should be equal to that with which the liquor would
pass   turbid through   coarse strainer of the same dimen
                                a
sions.    It was moreover requisite, for the reasons above
mentioned,   that this rapid filtration should be confined to
that period in which all the herbaceous matter     thrown out       is
of solution, and in which the liquor    viscid with sugar.
                                                    is
      These desiderata         are attained     in the invention lately pre-,
sented under trial to as many              of   the honourable members of
the appointed committees              as   could be assembled at the time
and place.
      In this first mechanism          the      proof    of   the principles and
                                                                          powers

316          On the Manufacture                   of Muscovado Sugar.
powers     was        chiefly attended to : in the instruments which
are now to be made,              the utmost convenience will be at
tained   j and from         these       only the descriptions and models,
which     I shall soon          lay before   the honourable members, are
to be made.
  At     the present moment               I
                                 must content myself with pre
senting a     few lines descriptive of the principles upon which
a small simple filtrating instrument is competent to the in
tended uses.
  In ordinary          cases, the power by which the liquor is pressed
through      the      interstices of
                               a filtrating cloth is merely the
weight of    the liquor
                      ;  and, under   equal pressures by weight,
the velocity of filtration is as the extent of filtrating cloth.
But, as in ordinary vessels used for this purpose, the pressure
on a given area of the filtrating surface increases with the
height of the liquor above                it,
                               omitting nice discussions, we
may affirm generally, that the velocity of filtration  as the                         is
number or square inches of filtrating cloth multiplied by the
height of the contained- pressing fluid  therefore, in order to-
                                                             ;
attain any required velocity of Filtration, the height of the
pressing column may be made to compensate for any de
sirable reduction of the size of the cloth.
  Supposing,                     cloth measuring
                       for instance,          a        feet by 7-J-,      8
or 60 square    feet in area, could  filter  fast enough under                                a
charge   of liquor  measuring    inches   in  depth, one-sixth of
                                              3
this cloth, or 10 square feet of
                                                  it it,
                                      would serve     the column         if
or charee    of liquor pressing on                         were made to be 18 inches
in height    :    and with the          height         of    36 inches,       5   square feet
would serve       ;    and this    is   less than the measure             of      a   common
pocket handkerchief.
  By the like reasoning              it   \vill be found, that           if   the cloth       of
CO square        feet filter no quicker than                 is   necessary   for the pro
gress of the manufacture, the filtration will become slower
as the liquor lowers to     smaller area of filtrating surface,
                                     a
and still  slower  as  the height of the pressing liquor de
creases  ;so that at the height of one inch, the quantity                                    fil
trated in  given time would be much less than one-third of
             a
that which the progress of the work would require.
   But when         considered that filtration will not avail
                      it   is
                                                                                           much

            On tlie Manufacture             of Muscovado Sugar.                  817
much until the liquor is rich and viscid with sugar ; that
every filtration abates as the interstices of the cloth become
narrowed, or clogged with filth ; and that a rich saccharine
liquor expanded on a large cloth in a basket, in the usual
mode of filtration, will soon be chilled, and incapable of
passing through the chilled and agglutinated filth ; it will
readily appear that the quantity of sweets retained in and
upon the cloth would cause an enormous defalcation of the
sugar, and great labour in washing out the sweets for the
still house, and the filth from any great filter. We are to
revert, then, to the small filter above mentioned, acting by
the pressure of a high column of liquor, in order to obviate
the described inconveniences.
     It may   appear paradoxical at the first view, but                 it   is a fact
demonstrated in every school-book of natural philosophy,
that the pressure of the liquor on the filter is the same whe
ther the superincumbent column consists of a ton or of a
pint   of   the liquor,    provided the heights of these columns be
equal.
  Therefore, instead             of making      an instrument to give a ton
of  pressure, by containing about a ton, or 250 gallons of
liquor, I have given an equivalent pressure hy a pint or two
contained in a slender perpendicular tube : and instead of
setting the filtrating bag to a great capacity, I have set it
vertical, flat, and with the opposite parallel sides so near to
each other, as to leave room                only for the filth to      be collected
from half a ton or         a   ton of sugar.
     By such mechanism              and     pressure the juice may be              fil
trated truly and expeditiously,                 even when    itso rich and
                                                                  is
viscid with sugar that   could not pass through any filtrat
                                  it
ing medium used in the ordinary way. The filtration keeps
pace with the ladling forward, when the cloth measures
 about 10 or         12   feet    square,     and   the flattened       bag     about
5  square feet: and the same bag will clean from 10 to 15
 or 20 hundred weight of sugar, according to the nature of
 the juice and the care of the workman in the previous de
 purations      by
                yawing and skimming.
     By these means, also, the whole quantity of liquor in the
 filter at any time may fall short of gallon   and the quan
                                                    a       ;
                                                                                   tity

                                                                             -
 318           On the Manufacture         of Muscovado Sugar.
 tity   retained when the bag becomes            stuffed and clogged              with
 filth is too inconsiderable to deserve notice, even                 if the wash
 ings were  not to go to the still-house.  For the described
 pressure of the slender column of the liquor is, or may be,
 made competent to squeeze the filth with a force equal to
 that of one, two, or three tons weight, and to reduce it to the
 consistency of dough, if that were necessary.
    The cloth which            answers for this purpose by its closeness,
 and  durability, and cheapness, is a kind of flannel called
 double swanskin : it is sewed to form a bag : the bag is
 placed flat between two reeded or fluted faces of wood : the
 mouth of the bag is perfectly closed, by giving it one fold
 or fell to be compressed by the reeded faces. The liquor is
 supplied from the slender pressing column by a small stop
 cock entering a small short tube of swanskin belonging to
 the bag: by drawing a little of this tube" over its orifice, the
 ligature becomes closer as the pressure of the liquor becomes
 greater.
   It     is easy to conceive howquickly such a filter may be
slung into its place or  removed for washing, or to make way
for another that is already washed.
   To     prevent fruitless experiments and expenses                 it is neces
sary to observe, that in any position different from the ver
tical now described, the bag will not act as a filter, and will
only strain the liquor, and that, if the reeding be not ver
tical, the filtration will be slow.
  When liquor is to be thrown forward, it     in the general is,
course of business, to be ladled from the second teach into
the instrument, by the gutter, off which               it   will run      clear and
quickly into the first teach.
  When        the ladle   is   held in the usual method, the labour                   of
throwing the liquor               height would be consi
                           to the described
derable  but
          :     becomes uncommonly easy when the hook
                 it
of slender pendulous chain or rope
  a                                    made to sling the
                                                   is
handle of the ladle at     spur, marking the proper centre of
                                a
motion, or the fulcrum on which the ladle      to play, with is
little effort to the workman.
  At skippiug-time             the instrument    reserves          some    filtered
syrup to recruit the emptied teach;             this   is   the business         of   a
                                                                                 few

             On the Manufacture             of Muscovado Sugar.                 3 19
few minutes       :   if it were     as    many hours, such syrup would
take no damage           in the time.
  About twelve ladlings forward belong to a skip ; and for
each of these its share of reserved temper is to be used. Less
than a tea-spoonful generally serves :                  a    small excess does no
harm now to the colour of the sugar                 :       both the filth and the
temper are stopped in the filter ; and the sugar becomes im
proved in the manner above described, provided no part of it
be over-heated         in the skipping.
  The    damage        which the liquid sugar           takes here is certainly
greater,    it is fouler by the herbaceous matter ; because
             as
the herbaceous    matter becomes darkened or charred sooner
than the mere sugar. But whether the filter be used or not,
there   will always        be some depravation               of   the colour   of   the
ground sugar when the skipping is conducted in the usual
manner.
              Of      the Spraying        Instrument in Skipping.
   Itis now sufficiently understood, that in boiling down
and in ladling forward, great care ought to»be taken that no
part    of   a vessel,    between     the surface       of     the charge and the
under-pinning, shall be so far heated as to burn-to the syrup
or sugar adhering to it ; and that this burning or charring is
to be prevented by one negro rolling the residuary liquor up
to the under-pinning, until another has ladled forward and
charged the evacuated teach, and until the liquor frolhs to
the under-pinning.
   But as nothing of this kind is practicable in the skipping
from the first teach, some new expedient is necessary to pre
vent the burning-to which is manifested in every whole
 skip, by the hissing heat of the copper, by the"cmpyreu-
 matic smell, and by the film of charred matter which washes
 from the sides into the subsequent charge of liquor; for the
 practice of some, in skipping only one-half of the ready and
 graining charge, is a very objectionable shift.
   To    preserve       the crop and grain once attained, to prevent
 all empyreuma, and to maintain every advantage of the                              fil
 tration,  have contrived, and presented in trial to the ho
             I
                                                                           nourable

   SCO          On the Manufacture     of Muscovado Sugar.
   nourable gentlemen of the committee, a simple instrument,
   which the negroes have since used with the greatest ease.
      It is nothing more than a tube of tinned iron or sheet
  copper, about six feet and      a half in length, with a bore of
  one-half or three-fourths of      an inch in diameter, delivering
   a spray of water on the bottom and sides of the skipping-
  teach during the short time of skipping, and cooling it suf
  ficiently and equally with a very small quantity of water.
      Upon     the common shed or arched covering which shelters
  the stoker, a cask of water is placed, and a slender hose or
  leathern tube inserted in the cask, delivers the high column
 of water into the metallic tube through a small stop-eock ;
 and the other end of the metallic tube being provided with
 six small holes, like those in the top of a pepper-box, and
 looking upwards when the tube is held horizontal, the water
 is squirted in the form of spray by the heavy pressure of the
 high column to the extent of the bottom and sides of the
 teach only, and the spray ceases when the cock is closed.
     The direction of     the spray requires no skill  of the negro ;
 for   a  spur on the tinned iron tube stops it at the proper
 place ; and he has only to hold the tube straight forward,
while he grasps it near the spur and near the mouth-piece of
the fire-place with one hand, and holds or turns the cock
with the other.
     The   fire is not disturbed, and    no wet trash is allowed to
chill the furnace and clot upon the grating.          The  spray eva
porates as it touches and cools the teach         ; and as the   fire-
face   of  the furnace remains untouched and red hot, the fresh
charge boils in the first teach in half a minute after the spray
is stopped, and the instrument now shut at the cock is with
drawn.
    The     advantage   of this instrument is not confined to the
prevention of empyreuma and colour; for it serves to make
all the portions of the skipped mass equal in spissitude, or,
as the workmen say, equally boiled, and enables the work
man to defer the skipping until the proof is perfectly deci
sive;    and these purposes      are answered   at the expenditure
of two or      three quarts  of water.
                                                        Subservience

                 On the Manufacture                                                               321
                                                     of Muscovado Sugar.
Subservience              of   these Measures to the Improvement                         of Rum.
     Concerning rum it is now to be observed,                                that       it derives
the    depreciating characters                  of    the        spirit from two
                                                                recent
sources ; the chief  of which                    is the filth of the scums, and
especially the first scums in yawing.
  The tendency of such matter, even                                 if   there were          nothing
verminous or animalcular in                         it,   is   to the putrefactive fer
mentation, or rotting, while that of the sweet    to the vinous              .is
fermentation, and. thence to the acetous    the product of the       ;
former fermentation     as offensive to the smell and taste,
                                   is
and as noxious, as that of the latter     grateful and cordial.    is
Wherever   scums are detained to await the spontaneous se
paration of the sweets from the filth, an intestine motion
may be observed, and then chiefly in the concurrence of these
fermentations the offensive product   generated   the rest     is                  ;                  is
formed in the fermenting vats,                        in
                                   quantity proportionate to
the filth        of this kind which          passes into them.
   Every vinous liquor                   capable of yielding an intoxicating
spirit    distillation, .affords some quantity of peculiar essen
            by
tial oil, which awaits the arise of the water of the latter and
weaker runnings, and characterizes them      therefore this es           ;
sential oil         is,
               in great measure, separable from the spirit
                            a                                                                         by
redistillation   especially
                      ;     salts retentive of the water, and
                                         if
restraining the volatility of the oil,                      an.'    used.
     But    it   is   peculiar to the ordinary manufacture of rum that
 very offensive ethereal fluid             generated in these mixed fer
                                                is
mentations, and that                    by   reason   of       its volatility      it   is   insepa
rable      by
          redistillation.
                a
     But from            the source      above mentioned the es'sential                          oil of
rum acquires extraordinary nauseousness; and as single re                          a
distillation cannot exclude    totally, and as any number
                                                it
could not exclude the ethereal                         taint above mentioned, the
best new rum               of any     estate   is    that which runs intermediate
in   respect        of    the offensive       ether and the fetid oily feints.
     All
      rum    improved
                    is     time          by
                                   wooden casks,      in
                                                      exhala                           by
tion of ether and absorption of oil, and under       growing                        a
charge for waste and for interest on the price.  Some have
improved     sooner
                  it                by
                        ventilation, but not without    great                                a
     Vol.   24.     No. 96. May              1806.         X                                   waste

                 On the Density        of frozen Mercury.
 waste  of spirits   ; but now it may be remarkably improved
 immediately by measures which prevent the above conta
 mination ; and the first of these is the abstraction of the
 putrefactive matter      by    filtration, and the immediate con
 veyance    of  the clear    warm      fragrant liquor to the working
 cistern, there to undergo the most timely and productive
 fermentation, and to suffer the least defalcation of spirit by
 foul scum and bottoms, which are generally thrown away.
    Another source of the contamination is in the empy-
reuma    ; but as this regards the distillation as well as the er
 rors in making sugar, it is unnecessary to say more of it at
 present than that the prescribed measures, together with a
judicious setting arid management of the still, will totally
 prevent the empyreumatic smell and taste.
LVIf.     Letter of AT. TARDY             DE   LA BROSSY         to Professor
    PICTET, of Geneva, upon             tlie Experiments        of Mr. BID
    DLE,   relative to the Density         of frozen Mercury*.
                                                             Ioyeuse (Ardcche),
      SIR,                                                      Oct. 13, 1803.
 J. HE   experiments of Mr. Biddle (vol. xxxix. p. 217f)i in
order to determine the density of solid mercury, having at
tracted my attention, I cannot pass over in silence the se
rious objections to which the results of the above gentleman
are liable.    In communicating them to you, I am well per
suaded that I shall enter completely into your views, which
have equally for their objects the extension             of truth      and the
removal of trror.
    Mr. Biddle,     after having made known the process which
he followed and the precautions taken by him, informs us,
that a thousand grains of mercury made solid at the 40th
degree below the zero of Fahrenheit (— 32 of Reaumur),
experienced, when weighed in alcohol of the same tempe
rature, a loss in weight of 59-8 grains.
   A thousand grains of pure silver, weighed by the same
                * From Billiothrque Brilumiiqve, vol.  XK.
                - Pidt Nicholiou-s   Iournal for April 1S05.
                                                                      balance,

                 On the Density    of frozen Mercury.               323
 balance,     in the same alcohol, and at the same temperature,
 lost  88" 1 05 grains of their weight.      Upon this, Mr. Biddle,
 regarding the loss of weight of the mercury and silver as in
 an inverse ratio to the specific weights of these metallic sub
 stances, and having found that that of silver, with the same
 balance    and   in distilled water,    was  10*436,    he multiplied
 this sum by 88.105, and divided the product by 59•8, which
 gave him 15*612 for the specific weight of the mercury in
 a solid state.
    But   the same hydrostatic balance       having given the num
 ber 13*545 for the specific gravity       of  the same mercury      in
the liquid state, the thermometer being at + 47° Fahr. ( +
 6£° Reau.), it would seem that nothing remains but to con
 clude with the author,       " that the volume of solid mercury
 is less by about one-seventh of what it is in the liquid state."
    But are all the principles of these calculations faultless ?
 Are none of these weights evidently wrong ? I shall not                '
 make    a gratuitous supposition    ;  I shall judge by facts alone.
    The antient     tables of specific gravities give 0•806 for that
of alcohol or rectified spirit of wine. It is at about 0.820,
 in the temperature of 19° of Reaumur (+ 54£° Fahr.), ac
cording to M. Bories, of Marseilles, at which the operations
 on these substances       cCi  be regarded    as  decisive authority.
 We then fairly      value  it 0*810, without      encroaching much
 upon truth.       But the liquid mercury, which, according to
its specific gravity of 13.545, loses in distilled water 73.828
grains in the thousand, ought to lose 59*8 in alcohol at the
weight of 0*810; and in this manner the great difference
disappears which Mr. Biddle thought himself entitled to
mark .between the density of liquid and solid mercury.
    Pure silver, which in consequence of a specific gravity of
 10*436 ought to lose in distilled water 95*822 grains in the
 1000,    would lose no more than 77*615 in alcohol at 0*810,
which is very different from 88*105.              To account for this    •
difference, we cannot allege the greater density of the al
cohol at the temperature of — 47° Fahr., because that could
not contribute more than two or three grains at most to the
loss   of the weight of the silver : we should not be better
founded in supposing that the alcohol employed happening
                                  X 2                                u>

324            On the Oxide     of Manganese of Naygag.
to be     of an inferior quality,    its specific gravity was greater,
because upon this supposition, and in order to make the loss
of weight in the silver amount to 88.105 grains, the spe
cific gravity of this alcohol, compared with that of water,
must have been 0*990. But Mr. Biddle could not but be
mistaken with such        a  liquor,   which was nothing more than
the most common spirits, and which,                if I am not mistaken,
could not support the temperature of the experiment without
freezing.
     It  appears, therefore, ascertained,        that there is an error       in
the weights ; and consequently              we may conceive          that, the
density of the solid mercury having been deduced from the
comparison of the results of these weights, the density has
been found so much the greater as the loss of the weight in
silver had been expressed by too large a number.
     I  have   no intention to pre-judge the question relative to
the density of solid mercury : I am. far from wishing to raise
doubts upon the talents of Mr. Biddle, or upon the penetra
tion of the members of the Philosophical Society of Birming
ham, in whose presence and to whose satisfaction the ex-'
 periments     of the former were made ; but I think myself en
 titled to say, that the experiments, of which he has published
 the results, ought at least to be made"»ver again.                  Mr. Bid-
die's idea is a happy one, and I do not deny that these ex
 periments may lead to the solution of the problem.
                                I have the honour to be, &c'
                                                 Tardv de La Brossv.
 LVIII.      Analysis   of tlie sulphuretted Oxide of Manganese of
                   Naygag.       By M. Vaucujelin*.
 JVl. Klaproth,          having made an analysis of the sulphuret
 of    manganese    under    the name of siebenburghischen,               disco
 vered that it is composed of 82 parts of oxide of manganese
 at    the minimum,       or soluble in nitric acid         ;  of    five  parts
 of carbonic acid,       and    of eleven      parts  of sulphur, without
             * From Amalet  du Museum   iliistoire Naturclle, vol. vi.
                                                                         having

                  On ttie Oxide                                                     325
                                    of Manganese of Nay gag.
 having discovered either gold or silver in    as asserted by.it,
 M. Muller, of Reichenstein.
   The celebrated Berlin chemist having thus enriched mi
 neralogy with    new species of the manganese genus, which
                        a
 down to the present time had existed only in one form, that
 of oxidated manganese, he has also thereby enriched che
 mistry with   new fact concerning the action of the nitric
                    a
 acid upon sulphurets, for the decomposition of which
                                                                                    it
                                                                                    is
 usually employed, with the view of dissolving the metallic
oxide combined with sulphur, without touching the latter.
  As soon as M. Haiiy recognized this mineral in his col
lection, he sent us  specimen in order that we might sub
                            a
mit   to
       itanalysis.
  M. Proust also analysed this mineral almost at the same
moment with M. Klaproth.     The former observed the same
phaenomena,   but for want of    large enough quantity he
                                                    a
was not able to determine the state in which manganese                                is
when combined with sulphur, nor the respective quantities
of these bodies.
   The sulphuret of manganese of naygag          accompanied   is
with manganeseous    carbonated   lime:      has for     matrix
                                                         it                 a
  white hyaline quartz   its specific gravity        its texture
                                                              is4
is a
                                :                                   :
  lamellous, with    metallic lustre, when the surface has
                            a
not been long exposed to the air.    Reduced into powder,                            it
isof an olive green colour     loses nothing
                                        :   it  heat.           by
  Five grammes of this mineral, perfectly freed from its
matrix, were reduced to very fine powder and treated with
                                    a
weak nitric acid; which immediately exercised lively action        a
upon     accompanied with disengagement of sulphuretted
            it,                         a
hydrogen gas. We gathered    certain quantity of this gas, in
                                            a
order to examine its nature.    The mixture was slifhtlv
                                                       O    *
heated,       and   a   new portion     of      the nitric acid was introduced
until effervescence ceased  the liquor was ihen filtered, which
                                    :
was   little reddish, but became colourless upon the addition
       a
of water. The residue weighed decigramme.           a was com          It
posed       of blackish brown flakes, which, upon being                     exposed
to flame       with the blowpipe, took fire like sulphur, spread                     a
slight      arsenical smell, and ^ft      substance which did not
                                                    a
colour borax like manganese, but like iron.
                                                                            *   -
                                        X       3                                   The

326           On the Oxide        of Manganese of Nay gag.
     The   gas obtained in this experiment, when passed through
lime water, did not injure its transparency, but gave it the
property of blackening solutions of lead.
   The nitric solution was mixed with carbonate of potash :
it formed    an abundant white precipitate with a brisk disen
gagement of carbonic acid gas.       We heated it lightly in
order to drive off the excess of this acid ; and we separated
the precipitate, which, upon being well washed and dried,
weighed 7-J- grammes. The difference between our results
and those of M. Klaproth seems to arise from the manga
nese used by us having been very pure, while that employed
by   M. Klaproth probably contained carbonate of lime.
     M. Klaproth endeavoured to form a combination between
 sulphur and the oxide of manganese at the minimum, in
-order to make comparative experiments, and he discovered
 that the artificial sulphuret of manganese, when no atom of
sulphuretted hydrogen could enter into      had the same chait,
racters as the natural sulphuret.   In order to follow his ex
periments,    calcined in retort, the aperture of which com
              I                   a
municated with          a   balloon filled with lime water, 7-4 grammes
of carbonate of manganese obtained     precipitation   by
                                                       means           by
of carbonate of potash.
   The carbonic acid gas began to disengage itself before the
retort was red, and at the end of quarter of an hour-s cal
                                                 a
cination the disengagement ceased.    The oxide contained in
the retort was slightly coloured,                at least at its surface.     We
introduced into the retort, while yet warm, two grammes of
flowers of sulphur, and we agitated    in order to produce
                                                     it                         a
mixture; the mass melted, and       considerable quantity of
                                                 a
sulphur was sublimed.                As   soon    as    the sublimation     of the
sulphur ceased, the mass, when taken out of the retort while
warm, took fire on exposure to the air in the manner of
pyrophorus.        It    was green, like the natnral sulphuret in
powder;      and   it   weighed .5-9 grammes. This artificial sul
phuret dissolved in weak nitric acid with effervescence
and   adisengagement of sulphuretted hydrogen gas      but             ;        it
leaves more sulphur as   residue than natural sulphuret.
                                 a
   The following     the manner
                            is       which M. Klaproth ex
                                                 in
plains the disengagement   of  the hydrogen gas which takes
                                                                             place

                On the Oxide       of Manganese of Nay gag.                 327
  place during the solution          of  manganese       in the nitric acid.
  In spite of the disengagement, says he, of a considerable
 enough quantity of sulphuretted hydrogen gas during the
  solution of this mineral, it appears to me that it would be
 an error to believe          that   this gas exists ready formed in the
 mineral or in any of those which yield it by the humid way,
 and to regard it as one of their constituent parts.                  There is
 no doubt that it is formed by the decomposition of water,
 since by calcination we obtain nothing else but carbonic
 acid gas.        By synthesis, the probability that no hydrogen
 enters into the combination of sulphur with the oxide of
 manganese acquires still more force; and yet this combina
 tion yields sulphuretted hydrogen gas with the acids.
     In order to know if the nitric acid is not decomposed
 during the solution of sulphuret of manganese, as happens
 with almost all the metals which have a great affinity for
 oxygen, or,       if water alone, by yielding its oxygen to one of
 the elements      of this mineral, does not give birth to this hydro
 gen gas, we dissolved a certain quantity of sulphuretted man
 ganese in weak nitric acid; we concentrated the solution,
 and distilled it in a retort with caustic potash : but the pro
duce not having given any sign              of the presence of ammonia,
we concluded from this that the nitric acid is not decomposed
in this operation. In order to have the just quantity of oxide
of manganese at the minimum, we calcined in a retort 7-4
grammes of carbonate of this metal prepared from a solution
of   five grammes, and          we obtained an oxide almost white,
which, weighed while warm, yielded 4- 25 grammes, which
was at the rate of 85 in the hundred.
    Let  us actually admit         a loss   of two    parts  : we shall then
have 13 parts        of sulphur; and        as the loss can       scarcely   be
any thing else than sulphur, the quantities will stand thus                   :
           Manganese at the minimum                      -      85
           Sulphur             -        -       -        -       15
                                                               100*
   * There  is also in this mineral a small quantity of iron and arsenic, which
hat been discovered among the sulphur which remains after its solution in
weak nitric acid; but these substances appear to be accidental.
                                      X  4                        Reflections.

328              On the Oxide      of Manganese of Kay gag.
                        Reflections.
     M.
      Klaproth justly regards the manganese in the mineral
of which we are speaking as oxidated at the minimum, and
he has recourse   at the same time to the decomposition of
water in order to explain the disengagement of sulphuretted
hydrogen gas which takes place during the solution of the
mineral in the acids ; but this philosopher neither tells us
how or wherefore water is decomposed in this operation.
The manganese cannot be the cause of       since           it,
                                                     already              it   is
united to oxygen, and because        discovered in the acids
                                                 it   is
which have dissolved   in the same state in which
                              it                     existed                   it
in the fossil, that  to say, at the minimum.
                             is                  The water,
then, could not have been decomposed but        the sulphur.         by
But how can we comprehend this effect while the nitric acid
is present  If, however,
                 ?           the sulphur which decomposes
                                       it   is
the water, and which gives birth to the sulphuretted hydro
gen, Ishould have found sulphuric acid in the nitric solution
of the mineral.  In order to ascertain                     it,
                                            dissolved in the   I
cold   certain quantity of the same sulphuret of manganese
       a
in weak nitric acid, in order that  might not burn the sul
                                                 it
phur.    The phaenomena were the sattie as before and the                  ;
filtered solution gave, in fact,                 by
                                   means of the muriate of
barvtes,   precipitate
             a         which was true sulphate of that base.
                                                 a
  This experiment, then, seemed                      to demonstrate, that sul
phur united to oxide of manganese                     has the power        of       decom
posing water bv combining with its oxygen,                               and thus sets
its hydrogen at liberty, which unites with another portion
of sulphur. This fact     the more worthy of the attention
                                  is
of chemists, that,           to my knowledge, this     the first time.
                                                                    is
that   it   has been observed,     and that in every case where me
tallic sulphurets or sulphuretted oxides have been decom
posed       by
           the strong or weak nitric acid,   has been always   it
the latter which has been decomposed, and nitrous gas, or
modifications of       it,
                      constantly obtained, and never sulphu
retted hvdrogen gas
                        this : quite conformable to the laws
                                        is
of chemical affinity.            true, that there are metals which
                                  It   is
decompose water          at the same time with nitric acid     but                   ;
hvdrogen never makes its appearance         unites         :   it              with the
azote of the nitric acid and forms ammonia.
                                                                                         The

                On the Eremophilus and Aslroblepus.                           329
    The sulphuretted oxide of manganese                  thus forms an ex
ception to the rule hitherto observed,                  if we do not admit
hydrogen into this substance as one                      of its constituent
parts.
LIX.      Memoir on     the Eremophilus and Astroblepus, two vew
  Genera     of the Order of Apodes. By M. Dk Humboldt *.
 VV hen        we   ascend     the chain      of the Andes to the height
of 2600       toises  (1666    If  English feet) and upwards, great
level plains and lakes of a considerable extent are seen.                        It
is singular to observe, that, while the soil is still covered
with    a beautiful vegetation, the woods filled with                   quadru
peds, and the air with a great variety of birds, the water
alone, the lakes and the rivers, are so little inhabited.                     The
cause     of this   phaenomenon         relates,    without doubt, to geo
logical facts ; it pertains to the grand mystery of the origin
 and migration of species.
     The considerable lakes which surround the city of Mex
 ico, at the height of 1 160 toises f, nourish but two species
 of fish, of which one, the axalotl, belongs rather to the
 genera sirenus and proteus.           M. Cuvier, to whom we brought
 this extraordinarily organized animal, unknown in Europe,
 is engaged with its anatomy, which he will shortly publish.
 In the kingdom of New Granada, in the beautiful valley of
 Bogota, about 1347 toises high, there also exist but two
  species,    which    the inhabitants        of that country call capitan
  and guapucha.         The    one is an atherine, and the other a new
  genus     of apodes, that I am       about to describe in this memoir.
  The form of its tail and its         anal fin distinguish it sufficiently
  from the genus trichiurus,           which is also found in the fresh
  waters of South America.             I have designed this non-descript
  fish   at  the place   ;  and Messrs. Laccpede and Cuvier, who
  have    willingly  examined      my descriptions, like me, consider
  it a new genus well characterized. I have named it eremo.
  philus on accout of the solitude in which it lives at so great
     * From Reaicil cTObservations dt Zoologie et ttAnatomit compflre'.lrejivraison.
  Communicated by a correspondent.
     f The French toise is about six feet four inches nine.tenths English.
                                                                                  an

                On the Eremophilus and Astrollepus.
  an elevation,   and   in   waters    which are inhabited by almost
  no other living being.        The naturalists, who fear that new
  species of the same genus may be discovered in very different
  situations, may change the name of eremophilus into that of
  Ihrichomycterus, taken from the barbillons or whiskers at
  tached to the nose of this fish.
               EREMOPHILUS.              (See Plate  VIII.)
          APOD. CHARACTER GENERICUS ESSENTIALIS.
  Corpus elongatum.         Cirri maxillares 4, nasales semitulnii-
     losi 2. Pinna dorsal-a et analis.           Membrana branckio-
     stega radils  1 — 2.
                               E. MUTISII.
  Corpore elongato, plumbeo, carrulescenti,          maculis dedaleis
     oiivaceis  variegato;     operculi Iranchiostegi ;     duplicatura
     spinuloso-serrata.
     The body of     the captain    of Bogota is long, and has some
 analogy with that     of the eel. It is compressed, ofablueish
 gray colour, and       spotted with olive green.        These spots,
 the outline of which forms very striking sinuosities, assume
 in some individuals a yellowish tint. The head is little and
 flat. The mouth, situated at the extremity of the nose, is
 straight.     The upper jaw projects over the under one : the
 first, very long and double, is furnished with six fleshy bar-
 billons or whiskers, of which the two exterior are the long
 est.    Two other barbillons, shorter        and semi-tubulous,     are
 placed on the      nostrils.    It   has very little eyes,  which are
 veiled by a semi-transparent membrane, like the gymnotes
 and lampreys.       The extremity of its lips is furnished with
 little teeth   resembling hairs.        The tongue is very fleshy,
 but short. The operculum or uvula forms a very narrow
 branchial opening, and it is very difficult to distinguish its
-folds (lames).      In the most part of the individuals which         I
 have examined, it appears to me that the captain, similar to
 the cyclopterus    dentex    and   a  few other fishes,  has but two
 radii or furrows,     which    are as   if soldered  the one on the
other.      The  edge   of  the operculum       or uvula is indented.
The dorsal fin has eight radii, the pectoral six, that of the
anus six, and that of the tail, which is round, twelve radii :
                                                                      it

              On the Eremopkilus and Astrollepus.                 331
it  has no swim or air-bladder.         The length of this fish is
from    10 to 1 1 inches, and its body is covered with a mucus
common to the greater part of the apodes.            It inhabits the
little river of Bogota, that forms the famous cataract of Te-
quendama. The captain is a very agreeable aliment, and so
much the more precious, that without it the inhabitants of
the capital of Santa IV, in the time of Lent, would be re
duced to the use of only salted sea-fish brought from a great
distance.     I have given this species the trivial name     Mutisii
in honour of       the celebrated   naturalist, whose rich collec
tions are preserved in the great valley of Bogota.
    The little river of Palace, near Popayan, nourishes another
fish, which, by its mucosity and the position of its fins, has
some relation with the eremophilus, but which ought also to
constitute a new genus of apodes.          The breadth of its head
 is greater   than that of the body; its eyes placed on the
upper part of the head, and turned so that the pupils are
directed, like as in the uranoscopus mus, towards the surface
of the water ; the indenting of the first radii of the fins, the
branchial membrane of four radii ; the tongue ; the want of
 barbillons   or whiskers on the nostrils       ; and the dorsal fin,
 -which approaches      more to .the head than the tail; suffi
 ciently distinguish the pescado negro (black fish) of Popayan
 from the capitan of Santa F6.         I have given the name of
 astrollepus to this genus, in allusion        to the extraordinary
 situation of its eyes.                           •
              ASTROBLEPUS.            (See Plate    VIII.)
         APOD. CHARACTER         GENERICUS ESSENTIALIS.
  Corpus plagioplateum.       Membrana branchiostega radiis 4.
       Oculi veriicales.    Cirri 2 maxillares, nasales nulli.
                           A. GRIXALVII.
  Corpore ex olivaceo     nigrescenti, capite sultruncato,      radiis
                   pmnarum exterioribus serratis.
     Corpus plagioplateum,eblongum,nudum,olivaceo-nigres-
  cens, caudam versus angustatum, subcompressum.               Caput
  obtusum, magnum, subtruncatum.             Cirri 2, apice recurvi
  et sublati, ricto in labio superiori adnati.       Maxilla labiata,
 labio superiori majori plicatili.       Lingua nulla.      Nares 2

332               On the Eremophilus and Astroblepus.
magnae,       margine membranaceo.                 Oculi verticales, minuti.
Operculum simplex, convexum, nudum.                            Membrana bran-
chiostega      radiis   4,  ossiculo      anteriori  subserrato.       Pinna pec-
toralis radiis 10.            Pinna analis radiis 7. Pinna caudalis
integra radiis 12; radiis duobus exterioribus (ut omnium
pinnarum) extrorsum serratis.                    Longitudo 14 pollicaris.
     I have given this fish the specific name Grixalvii * to
perpetuate the memory of a respectable philosopher, Don
Mariano Grixalva, who has disseminated at Popayan a taste
for the physical sciences, which he himself cultivated with
success.
    The pescado negro, so much eaten at Popayan, is found
but in that part of the river Cauca which is most contiguous
to the city. The physical cause of this phaenomenon is suf
ficiently striking.          From the volcano of Purase descends a
rivulet impregnated with sulphuric acid, that the inhabitants
call Rio Vinagre (Vinegar River) ; it is known by the beau
tiful   cascade which        it forms at the foot of the volcano. From
the point where the           waters of Vinegar River unite with those
of Cauca until four           leagues lower down the latter is without
fish, although in the upper part they are plentiful enough.
The small quantities of             acid that might escape our chemical
analysis are often sufficiently              great to injure       the organiza
tion of fishes.
   * Mutisii and Grixalvii     are doubtless very scientific names.      Linnxus, to
gratify his puerile vanity, introduced the custom of giving arbitrary unmean
ing names of men to plants : Werner embraced the same unphilosophical
system    of pitiable ambition in baptizing minerals (some wits have asserted ,
Indeed, that such is his attachment to water, that he actually performed the
ceremony of sprinkling certain stones, giving them at the same time the fa
vourite name      of some   of   his followers) : and M. Humboldt now transfers
men's    names   to the very opposite      abodes of fire and water, in his volcanic
fish ! AH the labours of these men have done much less to disseminate a taste
for the natural sciences, than the introduction of such an absurd practice has
effected   in obstructing the advancement of real knowledge and true philoso
phy.     Posterity, so far from venerating such names, will execrate the being,
who, to conceal his real ignorance by the assumption of universal knowledge,
could thus deliberately bury true science and much accurate knowledge under
the ruins of a Babylonish jargon ! Peace to the manes of Lavoisier : although
he himself made no real discoveries, yet the philosophical use which he made
of  those of the English and other philosophers        will not speedily he forgottui
by succeeding     generations. — 7'rfjufaWr,
                                                                        LX. Me-

                                   I    333     ]
LX.      Memoir     on a new Species        of Pimelodus thrown out of
     the   Volcanoes      in    the   Kingdom of Quito; with some
     Particulars     respecting      the Volcanoes of the Andes.                By
     M. De Humboldt *.
 .L he chain of the Andes, from the Straits of Magellan to
the northern shores bordering on Asia, extending over more
than 2000 leagues, presents above fifty volcanoes still active^
of which the phaenomena are as various as their height and
local situation.          A small number of the least elevated of
 these volcanoes         throw QUt running lava.              I have seen, at
 the volcano of Zurnllo, in Mexico, a basaltic cone that
 sprung from the earth the 15th September 1759, and at
 present rising 249 toises           (1595f feet) above the surrounding
 plain.      The volcanic ridges of Guatimala cast out a prodi
 gious quantity of muriate of ammonia.                      Those of Popayan
 and the high plain of Pasto present either solfatarcs, which
 exhale sulphureous acid, or little craters filled with boiling
 water, and disengaging sulphurated hydrogen, which de
  composes by contact with the oxygen of the atmosphere.
 The volcanoes of the kingdom of Quito throw out pumice-
  stone, basaltes     f, and scorified porphyries ; and vomit enor
  mous quantities of water, carburetted. argil, and muddy mat
  ter, which spreads fertility from eight to ten leagues around.
  But, since the period to which the traditions of the natives
  ascend, they have never produced great masses of running
  melted lava.        The height of these colossal mountains, that
   surpasses five times that of Vesuvius, and their inland situa
   tion,   are, without doubt,         the principal causes       of  these ano
   malies.      The subterranean noise of Cotopaxi,                  at the time
   of its    great explosions,        extends     to distances    equal to that
   from Vesuvius to Dijon.              But, notwithstanding         this inten
      * From Recueil d"Observations de Zoologie et iIAnatomie compare", Ire livraison.
      t It would have been of some use to geology had the author here men
   tioned whether    the  stone  which   he calls  basaltes has been   submitted to
   the action of fire or water ; or whether, in addition to the other well known
   characters of this mineral, it yielded hydrogen gas on distillation, the latter
   being the peculiar characteristic of what is properly denominated basaltes.—
    Translator.
                                                                                  sity

   334                 On a new Species       of Pimelodus.
   sity of force, it is known, that if the volcanic fire was at a
   great depth, the melted lava could neither raise itself to the
   edge of the crater, nor pierce the flank of these mountains,
   which to the height of 1400 toises (8971$ feet) are fortified
   by high surrounding plains.             It appears, therefore, natural,
   that volcanoes so elevated should discharge from their mouth
  but isolated stones, volcanic cinders or ashes, flames, boil
  ing   water, and, above all, this carburetted          argil impregnated
  with sulphur,        that is called moya * in the language of the
  country.
      The mountains of the kingdom of Quito occasionally offer
  another spectacle, less alarming, but not less curious to the
  naturalist.      The great explosions are periodical, and some
  what rare.          Cotopaxi, Tungurahua, and Sangay, some
  times do not present one in twenty or thirty years.                     But
 during such intervals even these volcanoes will discharge
 enormous quantities of argillaceous mud ; and, what is more
 extraordinary, an innumerable quantity of fish. By acci
 dent, none of these volcanic inundations took place the year
 that I passed the Andes of Quito ; but the fish vomited from
 the volcanoes is a phaenomenon               so common, and so gene
 rally known by         all the inhabitants    of that country, that there
 cannot remain the least doubt of its authenticity.               As    there
 are in these regions several very well informed persons,                who
have successfully devoted themselves             to the phvsical sciences,
I have had an opportunity         of procuring    exact information     (ren-
seignemens) respecting these fishes. M. de Larrea, at Quito,
well versed in the study of chemistry, who has formed a
cabinet of the minerals of his country, has been, above all
others, the most useful to me in these researches.                     Exa
mining the archives of several little towns in the neighbour
hood of Cotopaxi, in order to extract the epochs of the great
earthquakes, that fortunately have been preserved with care,
I there found some notes on the fish ejected from the vol-
    * M.  Humboldt    seems not to have been aware that this name has been
affixed  to it in consequence    of its having some resemblance to a kind of
blackish coarse bread made of grits or pollard, and used in Spain by some
very poor but proud people, or for purposes of penitence in cases of a pecado
mortal. — Trarulalor.
                                                                   canoes.

                      On a new Species       of Pimelodus.                   335
canoes.   On the estates of the marquis of Selvalegre the
Cotopaxi had thrown a quantity so great, that their putre
faction spread a fetid odour around.   In 1691 the almost
extinguished volcano of Imbaburu threw out thousands on
the fields in the environs of the city of Ibarra. The putrid
fevers which commenced at that period were attributed to
the miasma which exhaled from these fish, heaped on the sur
face of the earth and exposed to the rays of the sun. The
last time that Imbaburu ejected fish was on the 1 9th of June
1698, when the volcano of Cargneirazo sunk, and thousands
of these animalsenveloped in argillaceous mud were thrown
over the crumbling borders.
  The Cotopaxi and Tungurahua throw out fish, sometimes
bythecraterwhichisatthetop of     these mountains, sometimes
by lateral vents, but constantly at 2500 or 2600 toises above
the level of the sea : the adjacent plains being 1 300 toises
high, one may conclude that these animals issue from a
point which is 1300 toises more elevated than the plains on
which they are thrown. Some Indians have assured me
that the fish vomited by the volcanoes were sometimes still
living in descending along the flank of the mountain : but
this fact does not appear to me sufficiently proved : certain it
is,   that among the thousands          of   dead fish that    in   a   few hours
are seen descending from Cotopaxi with great bodies                       of cold
fresh water, there are very few that are so much disfigured
that one can believe them to have been exposed to the action
of strong heat. This fact becomes still more striking when
   a
we consider the soft flesh of these animals, and the thick
smoke which the volcano exhales during the eruption.   ap                  It
peared to me          of   very great importance to descriptive natural
history to verify sufficiently the nature of these animals.
AH the inhabitants agree that they are identical with those
which are found in the rivulets at the foot of these volcanoes,
and called       prennadillas*      :   they are even the           only species
offish that      is   discovered at the height        of   above 1400 toises
  *
    This word    an indifferent or contemptuous diminutive, indicating abun
                 is
dant, pregnant, fruitful, easily taken, but not pleasing or desirable object.
                                                  a
The name    purely Spanish and n»t Indian, of course could never have been
            is
'applied to any fish used as food by Spaniards.— Translator-
                                                                                in

     336                   .        On a new Species        of Pimelodus.
    in the waters of the kingdom of Quito. I have designed it,
    with care, on the spot, and my design has been coloured by
    M. Turpin.                  I           that the prennadilla is a new
                                    have observed
    species       of    the genus silurus.    M. Lacepede, who has also
-   examined            it,advised me to place    in that division of silurus
                                                            it
    which, in          the fifth volume             of his Natural History of Fishes,
    he has described                 under the name of pimelodes.
       This new species of pimelodus has depressed body of an      a
    olive colour mixed with little black spots. The mouth, which
    isat the extremity of the nose,                         is   very large, and furnished
    with two barbillons or whiskers                         attached      to the jaws.           The
    nostrils are tubulous               ;    the eyes are very small, and placed
    towards the middle                  of   the head.       The skin of the body and
    the tail      is   covered with           an abundant mucus,                and the mouth
isfurnished with very small teeth. The branchial membrane
has four radii, like the pimelodus chilensis    the pectoral fin          ;
has nine; the ventral five; the first dorsal six; the fin of the
anus seven             ;       and that      of   the tail, which        is   bifid, has twelve
radii.         The first radius of                 all the fins    is   indented on the out
side     :   the second dorsal fin                  is   adipose, and placed near the
tail.   This little pimelodus, which    found in lakes even tois
the height of 700 toises,       1                     is,
                                   without doubt, the fish that
lives in the most elevated regions of our globe. Its common
length scarcely amounts to ten centimetres (four inches)                                           ;
but there are varieties which do not appear to reach five cen
timetres (two inches) in length.
      In   the system               of ichthyology this new             species   of pimelodus
should be ranged in the first sub-genus established     Lace                              by
pede, among the forked-tailed   pimelodes.     must be in the             It
first species, before the pimelodus lagre.  As       the only                   it   is
one of that division that has but two whiskers,                                I     give   it   the
name         of
               PIMELODUS                      CYCLOPUM.            (Plate     VIII.)
             Cirrls duolus,              corpore olivaceo nigro-punctato.
     This little fish                lives    in rivulets    at the temperature             of   1O°
of    the centigrade thermometer, while oilier species of the
same genus exist in rivers in the plains the water of which                                       is
at 27°. The pimelodus       but very rarely eaten, and then
                                              is
                                                                                               only

                     Oil  a. neiu Species    of Pimelodus.                  337
 only by the roost indigent race of Indians ; its aspect and
 the sliminess of its skin render it very disgusting.
    From the enormous quantity of pimelodes that the                       vol
 canoes   of the kingdom of Quito occasionally discharge,                   one
 cannot     doubt that country contains great subterranean
lakes    which conceal these fishes ; for the individuals that
 exist in the little rivers around are very few in number.
A   part  of   those    rivers may communicate with the subterra
 nean pits   :   it is also probable that the first pimelodes which
have    inhabited these pits have mounted there against the
current.       I have seen fish in the caverns of Derbyshire, in
England ; and near Gailenreuth, in Germany, where the
fossil heads of bears and lions are found, there are living
trouts in the grottoes, which at present are very distant from
any rivulet, and greatly elevated above the level of the neigh
bouring waters.         In   the province    of Quito,    the subterraneous
roarings     that    accompany the earthquakes             ;  the masses     of
rocks that we think             we hear crumbling          down below the
earth    we    walk on      ;   the immense quantity           of  water   that
issues from the earth in the driest places during the volcanic
explosions ; and numerous other phaenomena, indicate that
all the soil of this elevated plain is undermine J. But, if it is
easy to conceive that           vast subterranean      basins may be filled
with   water which nourishes fishes,             it is more difficult to ex
plain how these animals are attracted                    by   volcanoes    that
ascend    to the height          of 1 300  toises,   and discharged      either
 by their craters       or by their lateral       vents.     Should we sup
 pose  that the pimelodes exist            in  subterranean     basins of the
same   height at which they are seen to issue ? How conceive
 their origin in a position so extraordinary ; in the flank of a
 cone  so often heated, and perhaps partly produced by vol
 canic fire   ?    Whatever may be the source from which they
 issue, the perfect state in which they are found induces us
 to believe that those volcanoes, the most elevated and the
 roost active in the world, experience, from lime to time, con
 vulsive movements, during which the disengagement of ca
 loric appears less considerable than we should suppose it.
 Earthquakes do not always accompany those phaenomena.
 Perhaps, in the different concamerations that may be ad-
    Vol.   24.   No. 96. May         1806,       Y                      mitted

 39%                  On a new Species       of Pimelodus.
mitted in the interior of a volcano, the air is found occa
 sionally condensed, and that it is this condensed air which
 contributes to raise the water and fish                 ; perhaps    they issue
 from      a concavity distant from those which emit volcanic
 fire  ;  possiblv, in fine, the argillaceous mud in which those
 animals are enveloped defends them from the action of great
 heat.      Notwithstanding all the researches that have been re
 cently made on volcanoes, there is nothing but the study of
 volcanic productions that has made any progress.                           As to
the      nature of the combustibles which nourish those sub
terranean fires,        and the mode       of action of     those fires them
selves,      I believe that all     persons who have visited the bor
ders     of  craters,   and who have lived a long time in the vici
nity of volcanoes, will sincerely avow, with me, that we are
 still very far from being able to give an explication, which,
without being contrary to the principles of chemistry and of
physics, could account for the great phaenomena which vol
 canic explosions present.
     The corregidor of the city of Ibarra, don Jos£ Pose Pardo,
has communicated to me an interesting observation on the
pimelodes.          "It   is known    (says he,    in  a letter which      I  have
still preserved,) that the volcano of               Imbaburu, at the time
of   its great eruption on the side next            our city, threw out an
enormous quantity of prennadlllas :                  it even continues still
occasionally to do so, especially after             great rains.       It is ob
served that        these fishes    actually live in the interior of the
mountain,         and that    the  Indians of S. Pabla fish* for them
in    a   rivulet at the very place whence they issue from the
 rock.       This fishery does not succeed either in the day or
 in mdonlight : a very dark night is therefore necessary, as
the prennadlllas will not otherwise come out of the volcano,
the interior of which is hollow."               It appears, then, that the
light is injurious to those subterranean               fishes,  which     are not
    * This is an assertion somewhat contrary to that of their being very bad
food, and disagreeable in appearance. It is within the particular knowledge
of the translator, that the Spaniards of South America are both very scep
tical and very witty, and that to play upon the philosophical faith of Eu
ropeans would be their highest delight. He must therefore be pardoned for
regarding the letter of el Seitor Corregidor as a jeu d'esprit en revanche for the
sarcastic   observations of French travellers on the Spaniards. — Translator.
                1                                                  accustomed

                     On a new Species        of Monkey.                    339
 accustomed     to so strong a stimulus        : an observation so much
 the more curious,        that the pimelodes of the same species,
 .which inhabit the brooks in the vicinity of the city of guito,
 live exposed to the brightness of the meridian sun.
 LXI.    Memoir      on a new      Species    of Monkey found in the
  eastern Declivity     of  the Andes.       By M. de Humboldt*.
 In   the vast    plains which extend from the eastern declivity
 of the Andes towards the shores of the Brazils, in the thick
forests on     the    Amazons,        Rio Negro (Black River),             and
 Oronoco, the cavia capybara, sus tajaisu, and the monkeys,
 are the quadrupeds most common. The marmose and alou-
 ate prevail over all the others, whether for variety             of  species
 or number of individuals.            Some of these monkeys, such
 as the capuchin of Oronoco, very different from the simia
 capucina Linn., the tiger.monkey or cusicusi, and the wi
 dow, (three new species which I have discovered,) live in
pairs, melancholy, mistrustful, flying (like man in a savage
 state) their proper species.           Others, especially the sagouin
and howling monkey, are seen in troops, from 80 to loo,
springing from branch to branch in search of nourishment.
The saimiri of Buffon, that are the titi of Aturcs {simia
sciurea), so esteemed on account of their gaiety, their mild
ness,   and extreme littleness, assemble together when it be
gins to rain. A fall of temperature of three or four degrees
of  the centigrade     thermometer disturbs them so much, that
they mutually embrace each other and form balls or knots,
of which each individual seeks to occupy the middle, in
order to find shelter.        The Indian hunters,        advertised    by ihe
cry of the titi, direct their arrows towards these flocks.
    Notwithstanding        the great number of monkeys that na
turalists have described, it is probable that we are still ig
norant of the tenth part existing.                  In Africa, and even
in South" America, there are vast plains of twenty thousand
* From Reaicil d'Otitnations  dt Zoologie el oTAnatomie compare, Ire livraison.
                                   Y    i                              square

3*0                        On a nmv Species            of Monkey.
square leagues which have not yet been visited by any Eu
ropean.   On the other hand, the monkeys the most com
mon are still so imperfectly represented even in the most
recent works, executed with the greatest elegance, that those
who have seen the living individuals would have difficulty to
recognise them in the drawings published.      Of this I might
cite as examples the simia sciurea, varieties of the simia ca-
pucinn, and even the simia paniscus, which                                        is the   game
commonly eaten in the Upper Oronoco.
  Among              the great number            of new          sapajous,    or marmoset,
that    I   had the opportunity                of describing in my            voyage to the
tropics, I have chosen a monkey of the plains of Mocoa,
remarkable for its resemblance with the lion of Africa, of
which       I   made       a   drawing during my residence                        at Popayan.
My sketch             has been copied and                       improved by        M. Turpin.
 (Plate VIII.)
    The leoncito* is very rare, even in its native country.  It
 inhabits the plains which border on the eastern declivity of
 the Cordelliers, the fertile banks of the Putumayo and Ca-
 qucta : it never ascends even to the temperate regions, while
 the wandering bands    of the simia beelzebul sometimes push
 their excursions to heights equal to those of Canigou, and
 even Mont Perdu.      The leoncito of Mocoa, which I name
 simia Iconina, differs essentially from all known species. It
 has not the white head of the s. Icucocephala figured in the
 work of Audehert.                   It    differs     from the s. rosalia, and the
 saki       or fox-tailed           monkey
                                 pithecia),         white spot
                                                     (s.                     by   a
 which covers the top of the nose, the mouth, and the chin                                        ;
 and from the s. iacchus of Brazil,         tail without white    by   a
 rings,         by
          its black visage, and     the disparity of conforma
                                                           by
  tion that exists             between          the claws          of   its fore-feet and the
  nails on its hinder ones; the- former almost resembling the
  claws of cat, and the latter having nails like the human
                 a
  toes.    The leoncito     but seven or eight inches long,
                                          is
  without counting the tail, which       of the length of the     is
  body.       one of the least and most elegant monkeys that
                 It   is
  we have seen.         gay and sportive, but, like most little
                               It   is
      • Leancitu,
              from lean (lion)   diminutive of endearment more common even
                                          a
  with the Spaniards than the Italians. —Tiamlator.
                                                                                           animals.

                           On a neiv Species   of Monkey.                      341
animals, very irascible.    When it is vexed it bristles up the
hair on its neck, that increases its resemblance to the African
lion.     I    have seen but two individuals           of this   very rare mon
key : they were the first that had been brought living to the
west of the Cordellier. They were kept in a cage ; and their
movements were so rapid and so continual, that I had much
difficulty to design them. Their hissing imitates the song
of little birds, and I suppose that the conformation of their
larynx (having     particular sac) is analogous to that which
                          a
I   have described in the simia cedipus.   I have been assured,
that in the cottages of the Indians of Mocoa the leoncito
breeds in the domestic state.   By the way of Grand- Para
and the river of Amazons they might be brought into Eu
rope.         If    a government,    in -the progress of de
                                      interested
scriptive natural history, would undertake an expedition in
which that interest would not be rendered subservient to
geographical discoveries; if that government sent canoes or
small boats to ascend the Oronoco, and to penetrate by the
Casiquiare and Rio Negro to the river of Amazons ; in
short,        if,
          after having explored the mouths of the Caqueta
and Putumayo,     would make these same boats descend to
                           it
Grand-Para,           it   would in   a   little time unite collections the
most precious to the study of zoology and botany. Such an
expedition would be of little expense, and its success certain.
                                SIMIA     LEONINA.
Ex      olivaceo fuscescens,        facie atra,        ore   allo,   dorso   striis
                 allio-fiavescentibus notato.
  Caput parvum, depressum, nigrescens. Facies anthropo-
morpha, atra    macula albo-crerulescens circa os et nares.
                      ;
Auriculae subtriangulares distantes, margine superiori de-
flexo, magnae, aterrima, pilosae.       Corpus ex badio oliva-
ceum, pilis nigro-annulatis,    in cotto longioribus. Dorsum
maculis et striis albo-flavescentibus variegatum. Cauda non
prehensilis, longitudine corporis, superne atra, inferne badia,
apice incurva et incrassata.    Manus et pedes aterrimi, in
ferne nudi, pollice in manibus anterioribus et posteriorbus
distante. Ungues acuti, incurvi, atri    polh-cis ungue in ma
                                                   ;
nibus anterioribus oblongo, acuto, in manibus posterioribus
(pedibus) obtuso, anthropomorpho.
                                      Y   3                          LXII.   Ana

                                [    342    ]
 LXII.     Analysis   of   the   Hot    Springs-    at   Bath.     By Mr.
    Richard Phillips, Member of                 the  Askesian and of the
    British Mineralogical        Societies  *.
  JL he nature of the country round Bath, and other local
 circumstances, have been so fully described by those who
 have given chemical examinations of the waters of the hot
 springs at that place,        that any further description appear?
 unnecessary.
    As   to the cause  of   the heat     of   these springs, we have so
 few data from which to reason, that             I  shall not offer even a
 conjecture on the subject.
    These waters have been frequently analysed.                 They have
 merited the attention they have received, not only from their,
early and extensive employment in the cure of diseases, but
 also on account of some peculiar changes to which they are
subject. Of these the explanations have been so various as
 to show that they require still further examination.
    Of the sensible properties exhibited by these waters the
most remarkable is their high temperature, the degree of
v/hich varies considerably at their different sources.                At thq
hot bath it is 117°; at the king's              bath    114°; and at the.
cross    bath   109".   This      statement     does    not exactly agree
 with   what has been usually given               as   their temperature.
These results were obtained           by pumping the water upon the
 bulb of   a thermometer till the mercury ceased to rise. Their
 taste  is metallic,   but not strongly or disagreeably so ; this
has not been universally allowed           : but if they are drunk hot,
this impression is readily distinguishable.
    Their specific gravity is 1.002 at each of the spririgs; and,
 as the effects produced by chemical tests are also perfectly
similar, they may be considered as derived from one source,
the temperature varying by their more or less circuitous pas
sage to the surface.        For the purpose of analysis the water
of  the king's bath has been usually employed ; and, although
it  does not appear to be a matter of much importance-, I
have followed the usual practice.
       * From  the unpublished Transactions    of the Askesian Society.
                                                                     Before

               Analysis of the Hot Springs     at  Balh.          343
    Before the experiments made upon the water are related,
it will be necessary to state those employed to ascertain the
properties of the gas, which rises in great quantity through
the water in the king-s bath.
   This gas is perfectly free from smell.
    (A) Some of      the gas was received   into  a jar.   A  lighted
taper put into it was immediately extinguished.
    (B) Received into lime water, it caused an immediate pre
cipitation.
    (C) Tincture of litmus suffered no change of colour by
agitation with the gas.
    (D) The colour of dilute tincture of turmeric       and infusion
of galls  was destroyed     by it.
    From these effects the gas appears to consist principally
of nitrogen      gas with a small portion of carbonic acid gas.
To   ascertain   the quantity   of each, and  whether any oxygen
gas was present, the following experiments were performed :
   .(E) One hundred measures of the gas were strongly agi
tated with barytes water in a graduated        tube.   A  considera
ble precipitate was      deposited, and five measures      were ab
sorbed.
    (F) One measure of nitrous gas was added to an equal
quantity of the gas in an eudiometer in the water apparatus.
The mixed gases underwent no alteration of colour or dimi
nution of volume.
    (G) One hundred measures of the gas which had been
deprived of carbonic acid by barytes water were submitted to
the action of solution of green muriate of iron impregnated
with nitrous gas. No absorption took place.
   This gas, therefore, consists of,
                Carbonic acid gas                     5
                Nitrogen gas                         95
                                                    10O
   I  now proceeded to try whether the water held either           of
these gases    in solution.
    (H) Ten ounces of        the water, which had been cooled      in
a. well closed buttle, were put into a vessel furnished with a
                                   Y4                            bent

344            Analysts of the Hot Springs at Bath.
bent tube   ;  the water was boiled for about     twenty minutes,
and the gas evolved from the water and the air of the tube,
except a quantity too small to be estimated, were received
in   a graduated   jar over mercury.      Solution  of potash  ab
sorbed 3-4ths     of an inch of this    gas,  which  was carbonic
acid.
     (I) The  unabsorbed    gas was transferred to the water appa
ratus, and tried in the usual way with nitrous gas.           The
mean result of comparative experiments upon it and atmo
 spheric air showed that it was merely the air of the vessel,
and that no nitrogen gas was held in solution by the water.
     As ten ounces of the water gave '"5 of an inch of car
 bonic acid, one quart would furnish 2.4. This quantity is not
 quite exact, it neing scarcely possible to obtain the whole
 of  the carbonic acid by ebullition.
           Effects of Atmospheric     Air and Re-agents.
     (K) Some of the water, while hot, having been exposed
 in a vessel of broad surface to the atmosphere, afforded in a
 few hours a small quantity of a white precipitate ; but water
 which had been cooled in a closed vessel remained perfectly
 transparent after several weeks exposure to the air.
     The re-agents added to the water while hot, and the ef
 fects produced by them, were the following :
     (L) Acetate of   lead, — a perfectly white precipitate.
     (M) Tincture of litmus, — no alteration of colour.
     (N) Tincture of turmeric, — .no change indicating the pre
 sence of uncombined alkali ; its colour immediately almost;
 destroyed.
     (0) Lime water, — a white precipitate.
     (P) Ammonia,
                      — a white precipitate.
     (Cj) Carbonate of ammonia, — a white precipitate.
      (R) Some of the water was boiled with a little nitric acid,
  — ammonia added to this gave no precipitate.
      (S) Oxalate of ammonia,— a precipitate.
      (T) Nitrate of barytes,
                                — a precipitate insoluble in nitric
  acid.
      (U) Nitrate of silver, — a white precipitate insoluble in
  nitric acid.
                                                  (V) Sulphuretted

              Analysis   of the Hot Springs at Bath.            345
                                                —
    (V) Sulphuretted hydrogen water, no precipitate OT
change of colour; the water became very slightly turbid.
    (W) Prussiate of potash, — no immediate effect : after
gome weeks the water became slightly green.
                               —
    (X) Infusion of galls, immediately          a peach-blossom red
colour, and very soon a       precipitate which became dark purple
by exposure to the air.
    All  the above effects are also produced after the water has
been cooled, excepting that          the colour of tincture   of tur
meric is not then destroyed, and, under some circumstances,
no red colour occurs upon the addition of infusion of galls.
    (Y) A quantity of the water was evaporated to dryness,
and distilled water added to the residuum.            Nitrate of lime
poured into the solution afforded a crystalline precipitate
in a few hours, indicating the presence of an alkaline sul
phate.
     I shall now state the inferences to be deduced from these
experiments.
     Carbonic acid exists in this water       (BE).   A  considerable
 portion of it escapes at the high temperature at which the
water is obtained, its evolution occasioning the precipitation
 of some substance which it held in solution (K).
     From Experiment (L) it is evident that no sulphuretted
hydrogen gas is present.
     As no alteration of colour is effected upon tincture of lit
mus by the carbonic acid (M), it is evident that acid is pre
 sent only in sufficient quantity to dissolve the substance pre
 cipitated by its evolution.
     The destruction of the colour       of tincture of turmeric (N)
 is clearly occasioned by the gas during its passage through
 the water (D).
     The   effect   produced in Experiment (O) is owing to the
  fbnnation     of   carbonate of lime, and the precipitation of
 jt   and   of  the substance previously dissolved by carbonic
 acid   (K).
      A  part  of the precipitate  obtained   by adding ammonia (P)
  jmist have been similar to that of Experiment (K), and to a
  portion of that of Experiment (O), produced in (P) and (0)
  ky combimng the solvent carbonic acid instead of expelling
                                                                     it

    346             Analysis nf the Hot Springs     at  Bath.
    it as in Experiment (K).         The precipitate was carbonate of
    lime, or of magnesia, or both.
       As earthy carbonates are not precipitable by alkaline car
    bonates, the precipitate formed by carbonate of ammonia (Q)
    indicates the presence of some other earthy salt. •
       From Experiment (R) it appears that no alumina or mag
    nesia exists in the water, and that the precipitate obtained in
    Experiment (K) was carbonate of lime.              But according to
    Dr. Gibbes, sulphate of alumina is present. It appears, how
    ever, that Dr. Saunders is perfectly correct in supposing that
    it forms no part of the saline contents of the water. In ad
    dition to the experiments already stated, it may be shown to
    be incompatible with the salts actually existing in it ; for
  -.                    ...
    the addition of a solution of sulphate of alumina occasions
           ..
    immediate precipitation.
       As Dr. Gibbes has insisted on this point, I shall here
    mention what appear to have been the causes of his mistake.
    In reply to Dr. Saunders-s supposition, that the precipitate
    which he took for alumina was carbonate of lime, he has
   slated that it was precipitated from        the water by ammonia
   after oxalic acid       had ceased to produce any further effect,
   fhis   method is subject to error; for the oxalic acid appears
   to have been employed without previous combination with
   an alkali ; and, as oxalate of lime is soluble in oxalic acid,
   it is evident that,    if more of the latter    were  employed than
   was sufficient to precipitate the lime, it would dissolve a
   portion of oxalate of lime.          The acid in combination with
   the lime previous to the addition of oxalic acid, not having
   an alkali to combine with,         would dissolve   a further portion
   of  oxalate   of lime ;  and unless the carbonic acid was expelled
-
   or saturated,     it also would   increase  the error.    From these
   circumstances       I suspect that the precipitate afforded by am
   monia was oxalate of lime, this compound being precipitable
   from acids by alkalies.
       Experiment      (S) determines the presence of lime.
       Experiment (T) shows that sulphuric acid exists            in the
   water.
       The   effect,  produced   by nitrate of silver (U) results   front
   the action    of  muriatic acid.                                     •
                                                                      As

               Analysis of the Hot Springs at Bath.                  847
    As no metallic oxide, discoverable by sulphuretted hydro
gen, was suspected,         the appearance it produced (V) was
supposed      to be derived    from its action upon carbonate of
lime.     This was     ascertained    to be the case by direct experi
ment.
    The prussiate employed by Experiment (W)                   was    the
triple compound containing oxide of iron.                 It  was   ima
gined that the slight greenness which was assumed by the
\vater might be occasioned by the action of the carbonic
acid, notwithstanding its holding carbonate of lime in solu
tion, this   effect being easily produced by the application       of the
Stronger acids. A small quantity oi the triple prussiate was
therefore added to a solution of carbonate of lime in carbonic
acid   : after a considerable     time it acquired      a green   colour
exactly similar to that observed           in Experiment (W). Dr.
Falconer has indeed stated that a blue colour is to be ob
tained by the action of prussiate of potash upon the water ;
 but, as it did not occur till after the addition of sulphuric
acid, it is evident that this effect was produced by the action
 of the acid upon the oxide of iron of the prussiate.
    Although      the presence   of oxide of iron    is not at all indi
 cated   by prussiate     of potash, (probably on account of the
 emallness of its quantity,) yet it is evident from the action
 Of infusion of galls (X) that a minute portion of it actually
 exists in the water ; the light colour of the recent precipi
tate, and its becoming darker by contact with atmospheric
 air, showing that it is in the state of protoxide.          In making
 this experiment it is requisite to use a very small quantity
 of the infusion of galls ; for, if much more than five drops of
 it are added to one ounce       of  the water, no indication   of oxide
 of  iron is produced, the water         becoming of a light reddish
 brown colour, and affording no precipitate. An excess of
 this infusion re-acts upon the compound of vegetable matter
 and oxide of iron so completely as to prevent the appear
 ances readily     presented  by a small quantity.
    From     the well known laws        of chemical affinity it   is evi
 dent that tin: oxide     of iron   is combined with carbonic acid ;
 this compound undergoing some               curious changes, which
 bare occasioned much discussion.
                                                                        It

                  Analysis     of the Hot Springs at Bath.
   It has been observed, that one of the most active tests of
oxide of iron does not in this water produce any appearance
of its presence ; and the slight metallic taste which it com
municates when hot and fresh                    has been unnoticed by some
analysts. This taste is lost by cooling, even in well stopped
bottles ; and every method which I have tried to restore it
has been unsuccessful.    It has also been mentioned that the
action of infusion of galls is in some cases lost.
  The proofs that this water contains oxide of iron thus ex
isting under singular circumstances, and liable to cease, it is
not surprising that they have been assisted by collateral evi
dence.   It has been asserted that the water deposits " a pale
yellow ochrey precipitate ;" but this is certainly an error,
the precipitate being perfectly white. Another circumstance
which has been adduced to prove the precipitation of oxide
of iron   is,
           that the sides of the king-s bath become encrusted
with it  :this observation, as to fact,       correct but the
                                                            is               ;
oxide appears not to be deposited from the water, but derived
from the stone, by the increased oxidation of the iron con
tained   in     the alternate application of air and water.
              it,   by
Having procured       specimen of oolite similar to that of
                          a
which the sides of the bath are constructed,    added   drop     I               a
or two of nitric acid to      this the iron became instantly
                                   it
                                    ;     by
and completely oxygenated, affording ah appearance similar
to that which has been supposed to be deposited from the
water.
  Another fact has been noticed equally deceptive with the
above stated, which is, that the clothes of the bathers be
come stained with iron moulds.          indeed true, that the
                                                  It   is
bright yellow colour of the substance of which these clothes
are made changes to                brown        but this change              not partial,
                                                                     it is
                               a           ;
nor has      it   any resemblance          to iron moulds        :       seems to be
effected merely          by   the decay    of    the colouring matter, and            I
find that     solutions of iron         do not change the yellow colour.
   The observation which has occasioned most discussion
respecting the oxide of iron,   the loss of power of infusion
                                           is
of galls to detect it. The following experiments will show
under what circumstances this occurs.
   (a)   About      one pint       of   the water was exposed,                while hot,
                                                                                      to

                Analysis     of the Hot Springs    at Bath.          349
to the atmosphere         in  a vessel of broad surface.    After it had
remained       about   16  hours, a small quantity       of carbonate of
lime was deposited           by the evolution of carbonic acid gas.
The precipitate was perfectly white, and had not the slightest
appearance of containing oxide of iron.               To this water in
 fusion of galls was added without occasioning the least al
 teration of colour.
       (£) As the quantity of oxide of iron in the water is evi
 dently extremely small, it may be imagined that it was pre
 cipitated with the carbonate of lime, but escaped observation
  from the minuteness of the quantity.               To obviate this ob
 jection,     some   of the   water  was  closely stopped in a phial for
  four or five days : upon examination it was found to possess
  its transparency perfectly, and without having afforded any
   precipitate ; to some of this, infusion of galls was added
   without producing the slightest indication of oxide of iron.
        (c) Some of the water which had been cooled so           as to re
   tain its transparencv, was heated to its original temperature;
   infusion of galls was then added, but without producing any
   effect.
         The facts exhibited in Experiments (b) and (c) have been
    long known, and have given rise to an idea that the iron is
    volatilized.      Although this opinion is incompatible with
    facts already mentioned, yet it may not be amiss              to show
    more particularly that it is completely erroneous. As it can
     not be imagined that the temperature of the water is sufficient
     to volatilize mere oxkle of iron, the existence of some sub
     stance capable     of carrying    it off must   have been supposed.
     That muriatic       acid   and   muriate of ammonia possess this
     power at high temperatures is well known, but no uncom-
     bined muriatic acid or muriate of ammonia is present.               Hy
     drogen    gas is said also to be capable    of volatilizing iron  ;  but
      the gas evolved from the water has been shown to consist              of
      nitrogen gas and a small quantity of carbonic acid gas, and to
      neither of these gases, alone or combined, has any such power
      been attributed.       If, however, they really possess .it in this
       instance, they must be regarded as the solvent of the iron,
       and the effect produced upon infusion of galls must be de
                                                                         rived

  350                Analysis of        the    Hot Springt at Bath.
  rived from the gas diffused in small quantity through the
  water.   If this be the case, the application of the concen
  trated solution of iron should produce a much more distinct
  effectupon the infusion ; but it has been shown (D) that
  the gas destroys the colour of infusion of galls instead of
  increasing         it,   which would be the effect            if
                                                                 it   contained oxide
  of iron.
     (d) About one gallon of the water was put into    vessel                  a
  of considerable depth, of which       occupied about two*
                                                        it
  thirds:   was slightly covered, and remained about twenty*
              it
 four hours.      then retained its power of affording
                       It                              peach-                 a
 blossom coloured precipitate with infusion of galls (X) in                             a
 very considerable degree.
   It   remarkable that in this experiment the result should
         is
 have      proved      so different from             that obtained in one where
 the    circumstances were similar,                   excepting only the form of
 the vessel and the quantity                  of   the water.  When the water
 was exposed with            a      broad surface, infusion          of galls showed        -
 no action on         it   (a)  ;   but here, even after eight hours longer
 exposure,  detected oxide
                it                           of iron.
   From this circumstance                    I     began   to   suspect     that some
 change       was  produced             by
                               the absorption of oxygen, and
that    it    had not produced the same effect in this as in the
former experiment, on account of the quantity of the water
and depth of the vessel. There appeared, however,   strong                    a
fact against this supposition viz. that iron more easily
                                              ;                       is
detected when highly oxygenated, whereas the reverse ef
fect in this case was produced.
   To try the effect of atmospheric air, the following experi
ments were performed                :
  (e)
         A  small quantity of the water was enclosed, while hot,
ina    well stopped phial, with about one-fortieth of its volume
of atmospheric air.              After four        days the water remained per
fectly transparent, but the addition of infusion of galls did
not afford the slightest appearance of its containing iron.
  (f)  Another portion of the water was kept for the same
length of time in   well stopped phial, but without any air
                            a
except such as the water held ia solution.  Infusion of galls
                                                                           occasioned

                  Analysis of the Hot Springs at Bath.                                    351
occasioned exactly the same appearance of iron in this as in
the water when fresh and hot (X).
   That the action of infusion of galls is lost by the absorp
tion of the oxygen of atmospheric air is proved by. the fol
lowing experiment              :
   (g)      A
          third quantity of the water was enclosed, -with the
usual precaution, in -a phial, about one-half of which was
occupied by the gas evolved from ttye water in the bath,
which has been shown to contain no oxygen gas.          After
                                                                                                  -
four days, infusion of galls was added to      and gave the         it,
same appearances of oxide of iron as occur in its application
to the fresh hot water.
   Having thus ascertained the effect                      of oxygen in preventing
the action      of infusion of galls upon oxide of iron,                      it   remained
to be shown in what manner this                       is   effected.   I      imagined       it
might be produced      increasing the power of combination
                                   by
of the oxide of iron so as to admit of its acting upon the
earthy contents of the water and forming compounds, the
strong affinity of the constituents of which prevented the
action of the infusion of galls.    With view to ascertain      a
how far this supposition was correct,      examined the effects
                                                           I
produced          by
               adding carbonate of lime, .dissolved    carbonic               by
acid, to solution of sulphate of iron to which infusion of galls
had been previously added                ;   and although         it   will   appear,        by
the following experiments, that the alterations produced
upon the oxide of iron in the water are caused   the car                       by
bonate      of lime            contains,           will    also be found           that   they
                       in it
                                             it
are not effected               the way   I    had supposed.
   A    very dilute solution           of green sulphate of iron                   was pre-
pared   :   the quantity           of oxide of iron contained in                   it   was so
small as scarcely to afford any alteration of colour when                                  in
fusion of galls was added to      but upon pouring solution of
                                             it;
carbonate  of  lime  into    after infusion of galls had been
                                        it
added,      a     deep red colour was almost instantaneously pro
duced.
   Although this fact did not immediately                              appear       likely   to
solve the difficulties             attendant       upon the water in question,
yet   it    was    sufficiently striking            to merit an examination by
                                                                                          what

352              Analysis of the Hot Springs                at   Bath,
what means the carbonate          of lime produced this effect, and
to what extent          it might be employed in rendering infusion
of galls a more active re-agent.
  With this intention I boiled                  some crystallized sulphate       of
iron in alcohol till nearly the whole of the red sulphate was
separated.   The remaining quantity being extremely small,
1 shall consider the iron in this solution as entirely in the
State of protoxide.    The sulphate, insoluble in alcohol, was
dissolved in water, and the quantity of the oxide contained
in a given portion of the solution was ascertained by taking
the average of two experiments.
   (A) To one ounce of this solution, containing T^iy^dth of
a grain of protoxide of iron, infusion of galls was added.
This occasioned the usual appearances indicated by the pre
sence of oxide of iron in a very slight degree.    The colour
produced, increased by the absorption of the oxygen of the
atmosphere.
   (i)   An      quantity of the solution was treated with
                equal
prussiate of potash.  A light blue colour was immediately
produced by the minute portion of peroxide of iron which
had escaped the action of the alcohol   the intensity of this
                                                        :
colour was gradually increased        the action of atmospheric
                                                by
air till the iron had arrived at its maximum of oxidizement.
  (/-) Infuion of galls was added to one ounce of       dilute             a
solution of carbonate  of lime containing -p^ii-jJth of grain              a
of oxide, as in the former experiments. A red purple colour,
of very considerable intensity,                was immediately produced.
   (1) The last experiment was repeated, employing only
lt,aaadth of   grain of oxide instead of -p^pfdth.
                  a                                A very
distinct red purple was immediately produced                        by   the action
of the infusion of galls.
  (m)        To one   ounce      of   a   solution   of carbonate pf lime, con
taining Idi66dth        of   a   grain of oxide,
                                      prussiate of potash was
added   but
         ;     did not produce any indication of having acted
                 it
upon the oxide of iron.
 I  now prepared     solution of red sulphate of iron by treat
                         a
ing the green sulphate with nitric acid in     red heat.   The
                                                             a
quantity of oxide which the solution contained was as in the
                                                                            former

              'Analysis of the Hot Springs        at  Bath.           353
 former case ascertained.         The experiments      made    with this
 -were as   follow  :                                        i
     (n) One ounce of      a solution of red sulphate of iron, con
taining , flift 6dth  of a  grain of oxide, was treated with infu
 sion of galls. The usual indications of its action upon oxide
 of iron   were presented.
     (o) The addition     of prussiate of potash to an equal quan
 tity   of  the   solution   immediately occasioned a blue co
 lour.
     (p] Infusion of galls was added to one ounce            of a dilute
 solution of carbonate of lime containing -j-^^th              of a grain
 o» the   peroxide of iron. Slight indications of its action upon
 the oxide were produced, but the colour was scarcely more
 intense than that effected by -| uiJ0dth of a grain of protox
ide in similar circumstances         : no effect whatever was pro
duced by infusion       of galls upon    , 0&,,0dth  of a grain of.per-
oxide in one ounce of solution           of carbonate of lime.       The
colour produced when carbonate of lime and infusion of
galls are added to the peroxide is red purple, similar to that
occasioned by their action upon the protoxide.
    (9) To one ounce of a solution of carbonate of lime, con
taining, as in the last experiment, , i>'6tdth of a grain of
peroxide of iron, prussiate of potash was added . Not the
slightest blue colour was produced.               When carbonate of
lime was thus added to the solution of peroxide of iron, I
found that it was capable of preventing the action of prus
siate   of potash upon --Jhrth of a grain.
    From these experiments it is evident that carbonate of
lime possesses, in a very great degree, the power of in
creasing the action of infusion of galls upon protoxide of
iron ; while, on the contrary, it diminishes its power in de
tecting peroxide of iron ; and is, moreover, capable of pre
venting the action      of  prussiate  of potash.
    The application of     these experiments to the circumstances
of the water in question is obvious.           It has been shown that
it contains carbonate of lime; and that the power of infusion
of galls to detect the oxide of iron it contains is completely
lost by the absorption of oxygon.              The following experir
    Vol. 24. No. 90. May 1806.              Z                       ment

854             Analysis of the Hot Springs at Bath.
ment was made with the intention         of trying whether this
effect of slow oxidizement might be imitated :
   (r) Infusion of galls           is,
                             as has been seen, capable of acting
uPon gitodth
           i     of   grain of protoxide of iron in one ounce
                         a
of solution of carbonate of lime (/). A portion of sulphate
of iron containing -j<-inrdth 0f grain of protoxide was dis
                                              a
solved in one ounce of dilute solution of carbonate of lime,
and was kept in contact, with about one-fourth of its volume
of atmospheric air, during twenty-four hours. At the end
of that time the solution remained perfectly transparent, and
without having precipitated   but the addition of infusion of
                                         ;
galls did not occasion the slightest appearance of having
acted upon the oxide of iron.    In this experiment the loss
of power of infusion of galls                is   much more speedily effected
than in the Bath water. This     evidently owing to the at
                                              is
mospheric air contained in the distilled water employed,
while no oxygen gas   present in the Bath water.
                              is
  When carbonate of lime      added to sulphate of iron
                                         is                                     it   is
well known that double decomposition takes place, the iron
being thus combined with the carbonic acid instead of the
sulphuric.  Having found that infusion of galls, in several
instances, acts much more readily upon carbonates than
sulphates,     imagined that the carbonate of lime produced
               I
its effect in this way. To ascertain whether this supposition
was correct    I   made the        following experiment         :
   (s) A quantity of the solution of green sulphate of ironi
similar to that employed in the above-related experiments,
was decomposed           by
                      carbonate of potash  carbonic acid gas
                                                           ;
was passed through water in which the washed carbonate of
iron was diffused, and to some of the filtered solution in
fusion of galls was added but, instead of the red purple co
                                   ;
lour effected      by
                 the action of carbonate of lime upon sul
phate of iron and infusion of galls (k) and (/), the usual
deep blue colour was obtained.
     (t)   One-tenth    of   the quantity          of   carbonate   of iron     em
ployed in      the last experiment was dissolved in                 a   solution of
carbonate of lime         equal in measure to                  the last solution.
To     this infusion     of galls was added.                   The      red   purple
                                                                              colour

               Analysis of the Hot Spriiigs at Balh.                355
colour    was immediately produced,           and from its intensity  it
was evident that carbonate         of lime had increased the power
of infusion of galls as much in employing the carbonate as
the sulphate of iron.
    It may be concluded, from these experiments, that the ef
fects produced by carbonate          of lime are not attributable en
tirely, if at aH, to the conversion of the sulphate of iron
into a carbonate.      Hence     I  was induced to examine the ap
pearances     produced by the action of the various alkalies and
earths upon infusion of galls and solutions of iron.               The
results are by no means uninteresting, but the limits usually
allotted to an analysis will hardly admit of the necessary de
tail ; I shall therefore relate only such facts as appear requi
site to explain the changes occurring in the Bath water, re
serving the statement of the remaining experiments for a
future opportunity.
    I now. proceeded    to examine the        salts produced   by eva
porating the water and crystallisation.
    («) A quantity of the water was evaporated to dryness :
the residuum was treated with distilled water as long as that
fluid continued to dissolve any portion of it. This solution
was again evaporated, and upon cooling yielded a considera
ble quantity of acicular crystals. These were again dissolved
in distilled water;   and to   apart of     the solution nitrate of ba-
rytes was added,      which     occasioned      a  copious precipitate.
The same effect was produced by oxalate of ammonia; but
ammonia caused no precipitation. These crystals were there
fore sulphate of lime.        By further evaporation       the solution
afforded cubic crystals    of muriate of       soda and prismatic cry
stals  of sulphate of soda.
 .  The next object to be      attained    was the weight   of the total
quantity    of the various substances held in solution by a given
portion    of the water.   This has been given, with consider
 able variation,    by different analysis, as will appear by the
following statement.       From a quart of the wtaer
          Dr. Lucas obtained 33-J- grains of dry residuum.
          Dr. Charlton       -     34
          Dr. Falconer       -      1 7-f
          Dr. Gibbes         -     234-
                                   Z2                                To

  356           Analysis of the Hot Springs at Bath.
      To account for     the great difference of these results, Dr..
  Saunders has supposed that the water varies at different times,
  ot   that the residuum has been dried with various degrees of
  heat.     I have ascertained the quantity of the contents of the
  water several times during about eighteen months, without
  observing any other variation in its weight than is unavoida
  ble in experiment.        In support of this observation it may
  be remarked, that I found its specific gravity exactly as stated
  by Dr. Falconer.
      It is scarcely probable that the results of any of these
  analyses    were obtained by drying the residuum at a lower
  temperature than 21 2% or at a greater than a red heat. Now
  I find   that one quart of the water, weighing 30 troy ounces
  172 grains, at the temperature       of 63°, gives 32 grains of
 residuum dried at 212°; when the heat of 3 sand-bath is
 employed, 30 grains are obtained ; and at a red heat, 28
 grains.      The greatest variation afforded by these methods ig
 four grains ; whereas from some cause, which it is difficult
 to explain, the extreme difference of the experiments above
 cited is 1 6^ grains. When a red heat is employed, a part
 of the loss is occasioned by the decomposition of the carbo
 nate of lime ; for water poured upon the residuum turns
 turmeric paper of a reddish brown colour.        The greater part
 of the residuum is perfectly white ; the portion deposited at
 the upper part of the vessel is, however, slightly greyish,
 but not at all appearing as if coloured by oxide of iron.        I
 suspected that it might be occasioned by carbonaceous mat
 ter : to ascertain whether this was the case, the following
 experiment was made       :
     (n) Four pints of the water were evaporated to dryness in
 a retort, and the residuum boiled with about five ounces of
 alcohol. The filtered solution left, on evaporation, 8*3 grains
 of a yellowish -coloured substance. A part of this was dis
 solved in water, and afforded a copious white precipitate with
 nitrate of silver, but did not give any with ammonia or with
 carbonate of ammonia : muriate of soda was therefore the
 only salt dissolved by the alcohol.
    (w) To the remaining portion of the saline mass colour
less sulphuric acid was added. By heating, the acid acquired
                                                           a dark

                           Analysis ofllie Hot Springs at Hath.                                      357
a dark brown colour,  evidently derived from its action upon
carbonaceous matter. This experiment did not appear con
clusive, as two causes of error might have existed, — a small
quantity of alcohol was probably decomposed by the action
of the salts upon or some of the conferva which found in
                                    it,                                                    is
the       water might            notice previous to evapora
                                     have escaped
tion.         I       hadtherefore, to other means.
                              recourse,                 Mr.
Kirwan, in his Treatise on the Analysis of Mineral  Waters,
gives   method for ascertaining the presence and quantity of
              a
extractive matter proposed    Westrumb, which consists in
                                                    by
precipitating the muriatic salts                         by
                                      nitrate of lead, and after
wards the extractive matter      nitrate of silver. by    impos                           It   is
sible to conceive any method more completely fallacious
than this         ;    for extractive matter                 is   as   readily precipitated by
nitrate of lead as                   by   nitrate of silver        ;    and although muriate
of       soda     is       decomposed  nitrate of lead, muriate of lead
                                               by
being         a   salt of considerable solubility, the subsequent addi
tion of nitrate                of silver would               decompose              it,   and afford      a
precipitate consisting                     of muriate of silver without any                              ex
tractive matter.
        The power of sulphuric                  acid to detect carbonaceous matter
                        .rJ.^dth of grain of sugar was dissolved
in is
        extremely great             :                    a
         four ounces of water; to this solution about one ounce
of sulphuric                 acid       was added    :   it       was then boiled till nearly
the whole of                the water was evaporated,                    and the acid had ac
quired very distinct brown colour.
              a
  The following experimenr was now made                                         :
        (x)   A       quantity of sulphuric                  acid was added to one quart
of      the water perfectly transparent, andfrom heteroge                free
neous matter.    The mixture was evaporated nearly lo dry
ness in   retort, and the acid remained
                  a                       perfectly colour
less.   The water, therefore, contains no carbonaceous
matter.                                                                     ,
   The substances contained in the water, as shown        the                                       by
foregoing experiments, arc carbonate of lime,oxide of iron,
                                               ;
sulphate of lime, muriate of soda, and sulphate of soda. The
presence              of    these compounds has been universally allowed
but that silica               is    contained in the water, was discovered                                by ;
                                                 Z   3                                                   Dr»

     358            Analysis of the Hot Springs at Bath.
     Dr. Gihbes.       To find  the quantity   of each  of  these, the fol
     lowing methods were employed :
          (y) A quart of the water was       evaporated   to dryness   in  a
    platina crucible    : the residuum, dried in a sand heat, weighed
    thirty grains.      This was boiled, with successive portions of
    distilled water, till it ceased to afford a precipitate with ni
    trate of barytes.     The solution was then divided into three
    equal quantities.
         (z) To one of these portions nitrate of silver was added
   as long as precipitation took place, and distilled water was
   poured on the precipitate till it came away quite pure.            The
   muriate of silver thus obtained was weighed after exsiccation*
        (A) The second quantity was treated with oxalate of am
   monia while it continued to produce any effect.             The preci-
.  pitated oxalate of lime was washed, dried, and weighed.
        (B) To    the remaining part     of the solution nitrate of   ba
   rytes was added till it ceased to produce any precipitate;
   and the sulphate of barytes obtained by its action was
   weighed, after washing and drying, as in the former expe
  riments.
       (C) The residuum, insoluble in water, weighed, when
  dried, two grains : nitric acid added to it dissolved 1-J grains.
  This solution afforded no precipitate with ammonia, but a
  copious one with oxalate of ammonia : it was therefore ni
  trate    of lime obtained by the decomposition of the carbonate.
       (D) The -3 of a grain left by the nitric acid was dis.-
  solved by potash, and precipitated from it by muriate of am
  monia. This precipitate was not again soluble in nitric acid,
  and was consequently silica.
      Another quart of       the water was treated in the same way.
 To avoid prolixity,      T  shall state the quantity of each precipi
 tate afforded by one-third of a quart multiplied by three,
 and make the requisite calculations from the mean of the
 two experiments.
                                   Exp. I.        Exp.  II.    Mean.
      Residuum             -         30-    grains 30-          30-
     Muriate of silver                Ifi-2  do.    16-2         16-2
     Dxalate ofl-mi-.-                18-3   do.    17-7         18-.
                                                               Sulphate

                  Analysis of       the   Hot Springs            at    Bath.                359
                                          Exp. I.             Exp.          II.      Mean.
     Sulphate of barytes                   36.6 grains 36.9                          36.7
     Carbonate of lime                      1'7  do.    1"5                           1*6
   Silica                                       *3    do.              *4              "35
   According to        Dr. Gibbes,              a quart      of the water affords
pearly 4 grains of silica when treated                      in the method I have
described. Thinking it probable that                         a portion of it might
be taken up by the action of the salts during their solution
in water, I tried whether any larger quantity could be ob.»
tained by the following method :
   (E) A quart of the water was evaporated to dryness in a
platina crucible.  The residuum was repeatedly treated with
nitric    acid in a red heat ; the soluble parts                           were again diff~
solved by distilled water, and the portion insoluble in                                      it,
when dried, weighed *4 of      grain.   This agreeing exactly
                                          a
with the last experiment,    shall consider as the quantity of
                                    I
silica afforded by   quart of the water. This experiment
                        a
was several times repeated, with very little variation in the
weight of the result, but was sometimes evidently coloured
 by oxide of iron, which was separated from the silica, and
its nature ascertained bv the usual means. But, even when
employing apparently perfectly similar means, the oxide of
iron was not always to be obtained, — an effuct attributable to
the decomposition          of   the muriate          of   soda        by   the nitric acid,
and to the power which muriatic                      acid   possesses             of carrying
off oxide of iron   but for the uncertainty of its action
                       ;
                                                                                         it
                                                                                         is
not easy to account.
  To find the quantitv of oxide of iron contained in the
water, the following means were employed                              :
  (F) To quantity of the hot water infusion of galls was
              a
added in the requisite proportion.    The water measured
when cold 9^. pints. The precipitate obtained was separated
by    the filter, and dried      — the
                                precipitate and filter were then
                                :
burned together in     platina crucible, and the carbonaceous
                           a
matter of the filter, and that combined with the iron, were
got rid of     the application of
                  by                  red heat.  aThe residuum
was then treated       with      nitric acid, in order completely                            to
oxidize     the    iron —
                       :    it   was then boiled with                       acetic    acid to
                                    *
                                          ?*,                                            take.

 360          Analysis of   the Hot Springs at      Bath.
 take up the lime precipitated    with    the oxide   of iron by  the
 infusion of galls ; and afterwards with potash, to dissolve
 any silica which the filter might have furnished — the re
 maining substance     was evidently oxide     of iron, and weighed
 .2 of a grain.
    (G) The     last experiment was repeated,       slightly varying
the method.       Infusion of galls  was added,     as before,  to  a
 quantity of the hot water, measuring after it had cooled 17.f
 pints.   The precipitate was suffered to subside, and the wa
 ter poured off till only a small quantity remained.            This
was evaporated,     and the residuum, treated with nitric acid     in
a red heat, weighed *5     of a grain.      Being exposed to a red
heat with carbonaceous     matter, it became magnetic, and dis
solved in muriaticacid,    except .J6.th of agrain, which appear
ed to be silica, derived from the water evaporated to obtain
the precipitate formed by infusion        of galls. The muriatic
solution afforded a blue precipitate with prussiate of potash,
•4 were therefore oxide of iron.
    According to the experiment (F) one quart of the water
affords .0042 1 of a grain of oxide of iron, and by the second
•00463, giving a mean of '00442 ; but the iron in the water
is in the state of protoxide ; and as the peroxide consists of
66.5 protoxide, and 33.5 oxygen, *00442 will give "00394,
the quantity of protoxide of iron in one quart.
    242 of muriate of silver indicate 100 of muriate of soda,
16*2 will therefore give 6.6.
    100 of oxalate of lime are produced by 100 of sulphate of
lime, 18 will then give 18.                                           '
    100 of sulphate of lime afford 1 75 of sulphate of barytes,
 18 will then produce 31 '5, which subtracted from 36.7, the
whole quantity of sulphate of barytes obtained, leave 5.2 for
the sulphate of barytes formed by the sulphate of soda; and
as 100 of sulphate of soda give 170 of sulphate of barytes,
i.2  yield 3.
    One quart of the water therefore contains
           Carbonic acid           -          2*4 inches.
            Sulphate of lime         -       18'   grains.
                                            30.4
                                                            Brought

                       Royal Society     of London.                       3<J 1
Brought forward                  -                 2O-4
             Muriate of soda             -          6-6
             Sulphate of soda           r           3*0
              Carbonate    of lime                  1-6
             Silica          -         -r            -4
              Oxide   of iron            *           -00394
                                                   29-60394
              Loss                   •                -39606
                                                   30-
   Estimating       the muriate and sulphate           of    soda  in the cry
stallised    state, one pint of the water               contains nearly as
follows    :
               Carbonic acid               *            l .'  inch.
               Sulphate   of lime           -           &      grains.
               Muriate of soda              -r          3.'
               Sulphate of soda               -         3 {-
               Carbonate of lime                  9       -'-j
         -
               Sijica
               Oxide of iron
                               ^
                                          -
                                            -             i
                                                          -
              LXIII.    Proceedings     of Learned        Societies.
                             ROYAL     SOCIETY.
            1.   The right honourable the President in the chair.—
 On resuming the reading of Mr. Smithson-s letter (not
 Tennant,       as erroneously printed in our last repori) it did not
 appear that the author had been able to collectsany quantity
 of the native minium which he discovered in galena ; nor
 does he mention        in what country         he found this mineral.
    An anatomical dissertation, by Mr. Home, on the teredo
 gigantea, or sea-worm, with observations on the teredo na-
 valis, or borer, was also read.               The subject examined by
 this anatomist was one         of those sea-worm shells brought by
 Mr. Griffiths       from Sumatra, of which some account was
 given to the Royal Society in February last. The teredo na-
     lis was brought from one of our ships at the Nore, in or
                                                                            der

     362                Royal    Society  of London.
     der to enable the author to pursue his inquiry into the com-.
     parative  anatomy of these animals.            In the stomach of the
     borer he found a considerable quantity of matter, which
     Mr. Tcnnant pronounced to be purely ligneous, and similar
     to saw-dust.      Notwithstanding        this circumstance, and that
     of  the borer-s burying      itself always in Umber, Mr. Home
     concludes that wood is not properly its food, as it passes
     undigested ; but that the animal, as well as the (credo gi-
    ganfca, draws its nourishment from the water.
        May 8. The President in the chair. — On this evening was
    read a letter from Mr. O. Gregory, of the Royal Military
    Academy at Woolwich, on sir Isaac Newton-s definition of
    the force of the lever, in which the author defended sir
    Isaac-s demonstration as the most simple and correct, against
    all the objections urged by other mathematicians.                Mr. G.
    reduced    his defence     to propositions       illustrated by figures,
    and maintained that the force        of a lever     of the same   length
    and weight     was equal     in whatever other direction       it might
    pass from the    fulcrum,     as well as   horizontal.
       May 15/"The President in the chair. — An interesting let
   ter to the President, from Mr. T. A. Knight, on the invert
   ed action    of the alburnous     vessels   of plants, was read. Mr.
   Knight, discovering        some facts     in   opposition to the senti
   ments of Hales and Duhamel, has taken much pains to con-
-
   firm them by experiments, all of which have tended to prove
   the truth   of  the   opinions ]and observations which he has.
   communicated       from   time to time to the society, relative to
   the circulation of the juices in plants, formation of buds and
   sap-wood,     and to vegetable       physiology in general. In the
   present case his researches were directed to the roots of po
   tatoes, and he in consequence maintains that the formation
  of all such roots     is explicable only       on the principle which
  he has been endeavouring to establish, that of the inverted
  action of the alburnous vessels in plants.               His experiments
  seem to have been       conducted with his usual accuracy, and
  leave little doubt     of  the truth of his observations and opi
  nions.      Perhaps the discoveries of this ingenious philoso
  phical    botanist   may be found directly applicable to the use
  of hot-house or green-house plants, in directing the gar.
                                                                    dener-s,

                                   Society    of Antiquaries,                          363,
  dener's attention to the supply of that kind of air most easi
  ly assimilated by the lungs orTespiratory organs of the diffe
  rent species          of bulbous-
                              and tuberous.rooted plants, and
  thereby find    new pabulum vitce vegetabilis.
                        a                          It    how                   is,
  ever, certain that we are yet very ignorant of the indefinite
  improvability of vegetables, and of the best means of mul
 tiplying them for the use of animal life.
    May 22. The President in the chair. — A letter from Mr.
 Martin to the right honourable Mr. Greville, gave      brief                      a
 description of    kind of mineral bason, or surface of
                            a                                                              a
 country, extending 100 miles in length, and 20 in breadth,
 through Wales, in Glamorgan and adjoining shires, which
 consists principallv of iron ore and coals. Brief as this
 mineralogical topography is,       were to be wished that we
                                                  it
 had similar sketches of all the districts.in Great Britain, as
 we might thence form more accurate ideas of the geology of
 the kingdom.
    A letter from Mr. Dunlop to sir C. Blagden, bart, was
 likewise       read,       containing       description of an instrument
                                             a
 newly invented              by    him, to be substituted for the common
 quadrant and sextant now in use, and                          by   means    of which
 the numerous errors occasioned                     by   atmospheric refraction,
 and in taking lunar observations,                     &c.   are to be completely
obviated.         Should this invention be found                    to answer these
pretensions,       it       will   be    of inestimable
                                        consequence to navi
gators, as such          imperfection of our present instru
                             is    the
ments, that no two observers can bring the sun to the same
altitude on the quadrant, often differing from    to   miles          4       7
in their observations              :    an endless source     of    errors   and     mis
calculations in the course of                 a   long voyage.
                            SOCIETY OF ANTIQUARIES.
  May   1  The lord bishop of Salisbury in the chair. — A
            •
half-length portrait of sir Walter Raleigh was presented to
the society    sir W. Skeffington, bart. In the letter which
                  by
accompanied   this  present,    was acknowledged that the
                                             it
panning was only      tolerably old copy of some original
                              a                                                        :
the upper part indeed was very well executed, but the hands
were extremely incorrect and unnatural.
                                                                             Designs

 S64          Society for the Improvement   of Arts, &c.
    Designs of two towers in the East Indies were also ex»
 hibited : the one was alleged to be 2000 years old, and the
 other 700.    They afford nothing peculiar, or indicative of
 having any allegorical import.
   May 8. Craven Orde, Esq. vice-president, in the chair. — .
 Eight plans, elevations, and sections of the cathedral
 church of Norwich, by Mr. Wilkins, of Cambridge, were
 exhibited.   The society purchased these drawings for 150/.
 Several autograph- letters from Henry VIII., sir Walter and
lady Raleigh, were read.      The letters signed E. Raleigh are
written in a very fair character, and very small, except that
which requested attendance at the funeral of her husband,
sir Walter, in which her perturbation of mind is apparent
in the unusual largeness of her hand-writing. These letters
also evince great powers of mind ; and the expression,
speaking of the execution of sir Walter, that " the lords
have not refused me        his body,   though they refused me his
life,"   has here a more than ordinary       energy and sarcastic
reflection.
   May    15. Craven    Orde,   Esq. in    the chair.-^.Silver   and
copper Lydian coins, bearing a head of Jupiter, were ex
hibited, and considered  as very rare.    An antient parish
seal, which contained a private seal within       it,
                                              was also laid
before the society.   Some more drawings of Mr. Weston's
Greek coins were exhibited.    This gentleman has changed
his ideas relative to  asystem of antient geography, which
he seemed disposed      to create    in order to support the ima
ginary importance and       antiquity of his coins ; he will per
haps  find    it
             necessary to reconsider his opinions second a
time, and may in consequence again change.
   May 22. The Rev. Dr. Hamilton in the chair, — After
reading the minutes of last meeting, the society adjourned
till the 5th of June.
SOCIETY       FOR   THE IMPROVEMENT        OP ARTS,     MANUFAC
                    TURES, AND COMMERCE.
   Tuesday the 27th of May having been the anniversary            of
this truly useful and patriotic society for the distribution      of
                                                         premiums

            Society far tlie Improvement    of Arts, &c.         365
premiums and rewards, at their house in the Adelphi, his
grace the duke of Norfolk, president, took the chair; and
the meeting was honoured by the presence of the baroness
de Tott, count Woronzow (late ambassador from Russia),
the Swedish, Portuguese, and Efessian ambassadors; and
as many persons        of distinction,  and  ladies  of fashion and
beauty, were      also present  as the great   room of the society
could hold, to the exclusion of many of the members, who
handsomely gave up their places on this occasion. At twelve
o'clock the chair was taken, and the business commenced
-with an    oration by  Dr. Charles Taylor,    the principal   secre-
tary,on    the patriotic views and laboursof this society since its
establishment in 1 754 ; in the Course of which he noticed
the principal objects of public utility, which the premiums
and bounties, from time to time given by the society, had
brought to light and perfected ; and entered into minute de
tails on the design and objects of the premiums awarded in
the present session. The worthy secretary observed, that
the permission which the society gave in 1 760 for the artists
of that   day to exhibit their pictures in the society-s rooms,
gare  rise  to that noble annual exhibition, since made in the
Royal Academy-s apartments In Somerset-house ; and
he took the opportunity of paying a just tribute of re
spect to the memory of the late Mr. James Barry, the sub
lime productions of whose pencil decorated the society's
room, and whose remains were now deposited in St. Paul's
cathedral, between those of sir Christopher Wren and sir
Joshua Reynolds.
   After the different premiums, &c. had            been   adjudged,
his grace rose, and, in a short speech, thanked the company
for their polite attention to the details of the business; and,
adverting to the distinguished foreigners present, concluded
with a handsome compliment to the attention paid by the
Emperor of Russia to the arts of peace, and particularly to
th« talents and productions      of Englishmen.
   In our next number will       be found a list  of  the names    of
those to whom medals         or premiums    were delivered    at the
above anniversary.
                                                          IMPERIAL

 366        Russian Society       of Arts and   Sciences,  &c.
 IMPERIAL RUSSIAN SOCIETY OF THE ARTS AND SCIENCES
                        AT ST. PETERSBURGH.
    This society   is at present employed inmakingarrangements
 for the future use of the Roman letters in writing and print
 ing the Russian language. Accounts from St. Petcrsburgh.
 speak  highly of the rapid        progress   of literature through all
 the Russias.
                 ROYAL      SOCIETY,      COPENHAGEN.
    M.  Mealier, director of the grammar school at Slagelse,
in Denmark,      has this year received the gold medal from this
society for the best answer to the following historical prize
question :    "  Upon the misapplications which both antient
and modern historians have made                  of what are called
pragmatical histories,         and     on the means       of preventing
such mistakes."
             THE ROYAL ACADEMY,               STOCKHOLM.
   This academy has announced the following prize subjects
for the present year :
   History — " Historical remarks upon taxes and imposts,
and the manner of raising them in Sweden, during the
middle ages." The prize is a gold medal of 26 ducats.
    Greek, Latin, or French Languages — On the resem
                                                     "
blance of the Latin writers of the two epochs generally
known by the appellation of the golden and silver ages ; and
examination whether the varieties in style and taste which
characterize these two periods in the Roman literature, may
not be attributed, as well as the varieties in modern litera
ture, to the progress of society, and improvement of the
human mind."           The prize is a gold medal of 26 du
cats,                           i
   The    essays   must be transmitted to Stockholm           on or be
fore the 20th     of January      1807.
                    ATHENAEUM AT POICTIERS.
   On   the 31st   of August,      1805,   the Athenaeum at Poictiers
held a public meeting.            The president, professor Fradin,
opened it with a discourse on the utility of the belles lettres
and philosophy.        Various      treatises were then read by the
                                                               different

                     University    of Goltingen, &c.                 3d7
different members.         One of these was an essay by M. Mo*
reau, physician at Rochefort, on the property of charcoal in
purifying water. Another essay was read by professor Fra-
din, on life in general, and particularly on old age : ob
servations were also read by        Mr. Boncenne, upon        the  fine
ness   of taste and feeling     : and  M.  Denesle,    lecturer on bo
tany, concluded with a treatise          on the waters of Poicticrs
and the neighbourhood.
                   UNIVERSITY       OF  GOTTINOEN.
   The following      is announced as the subject      of a prize ques
tion by this university :      " What    influence   have   oxygen gas,
azotic gas, and the other gases, of their bases, upon the
production      of electricity by friction?"         The beginning of
September next is fixed for receiving the answers to the
above, and the prize is 50 ducats.
                 MEDICAL      SOCIETY    OF BRUSSELS.
   This society, since its re-establishment in the year 1804,
has been employed        in medical and philosophical researches
of considerable importance. Two gold medals are given
annually, the one of the value of 200 franks, for the best
treatise upon any general medical subject ; and the other,             of
1 50 franks in value, for the best treatise upon any local disease
peculiar to the department of Brussels. The subject of the
prize essay for the year 1805, wa, "Whether has night
any influence upon sick people ; and what are the physical
causes of such influence?"             The prize was adjudged to
Richard de la Prade,        M.D. practising at Monbrison. The
prize   announced    for  the present year is for the best answer to the
following question on a general medical subject : " What
are the characteristic symptoms         of  the inflammation     of the
mucous system, and what phenomena are the consequences
of such inflammation in regard to the organs in which it
takes place    ; and what treatment ought we to         follow in such
a case?"
   The prize will be adjudged         in the public sitting of the
S2d of September 1806.
                                                            LXIV.    In

                                t  368   J
        LXIV.      Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                   RUSSIAN EMBASSY TO CHINA.
                                                Rioechta, Feb. i% 1806.
 After       the    extraordinary demonstrations of friendship
 made    by the Chinese upon the arrival of our embassy on
 the frontiers of China, we heard with astonishment that
 the Chinese commander at Wiga, after admitting our am
 bassador, count Golowkin, into that place, had prevented
 any part of his suite from following him. The return of count
 Golowkin is therefore daily expected, unless the court of
 Pekin shall give a favourable answer to the remonstrances
 of our court.
                                                  Petersburgh, April 25.
    The  differences   between our ambassador, count       Golowkin,
 and the Chinese,      who have sent a deputation to adjust cer
 tain ceremonies, are expected to be soon settled.
                             AEROSTATION.
    The balloon of       the unfortunate aeronaut,     M. Mosment,
whose melancholy fate was mentioned in our last number,
came to the ground on the same day of the accident, 23
leagues distant from       Lisle, the place  of its ascension.      An
unloaded pistol, a little bread, and        a piece    of flesh,   were
found in the car of the balloon.
   The unfortunate death of M. Mosment has produced the
following observations from Garnerin, the aeronaut : — " It
seems that the misfortune which happened            to  M. Mosment
did not result from any of the inconveniencies which are
                                                                         '
connected with aerostatic ascensions, but merely from want
Of prudence. The car in which he ascended was too shal
low ;  the cords by       which it   was attached    to the balloon
were too far apart; and it is probable, when M. Mos
ment was leaning over to let au animal drop in a parachute,
that he lost his balance, and was precipitated to the earth.
If the  accidents which have happened from balloons are in
vestigated, it will be seen that they have in general pro
ceeded from      the   imprudence of the aeronauts themselves.
Every one foresaw, when the Montgolfiere was attached to
a balloon filled with inflammable gas, the danger to which
                                                                Pilatre

                                          .                            369
 Pilatre dc Rosier was         exposed.      Besides, those       balloons
were    gilt; which might attract the        electricity of    the clouds.
Balloons, gilt or silvered over, are very dangerous. Zam-
beccari, who employed those means, sustained several acci
dents, and it is only surprising that he escaped at last."
                                 COFFEE.
    M. Tussac,     a  colonial    refugee   from St. Domingo, has
discovered the method of extracting from the pulp of coffee-
berries a spirituous liquor similar to rum, and remarkable
for a peculiar flavour which indicates its origin.               This dis
covery will be very useful in the colonies, as the pulp,
when separated from the berries, was hitherto used only as
dung;     and also    because it may be substituted,          to good ac
count,     in place of the rum and the tassia in common use.
M. Tussac      has sent a bottle of this liquor to the Museum of
Natural      History   at   Paris, and all who lasted        it have de
clared that it was excellent.
    He sent at the same time the model of a machine called a kiln,
with the assistance of which thesamc quantity of coffee grains
may be dried in three days, as could have been dried in six
weeks if spread upon hurdles.              This machine is a species
of barrel or cylinder, the sides of which are constructed of
brass wires, fastened      to iron rods ; it admits       of being easily
seen through ; it is divided        into six or eight compartments,
and   a wooden axle runs through its whole length, to the ex
tremity of which is adapted a handle.             It is placed in a stove
some feet above the surface, then half filled with coffee
grains, and turned round by means of a horse or water mill.
As this large box turns round, the coflee grains contained in
it keep continually moving about ; the partitions or com
partments in it prevent the colTee from going too much to
one side ; the warm air of the stove passes through the in
tervals, the humidity        is dissipated, and       the  dried clay or
sand is easily separated.
    M. Tussac     has it  in contemplation tp publish a history of
the vegetables    of the Antilles, in which he purposes to give
the process    of distilling spirits from coffee, as well as a          de
scription and a drawing of the above kiln for drying                    the
grain.
    Vol.   C4. No.   9P-  -1      180G.      A  a              MISCEI.LA

  3"0                       Mifccllaneotts.
                          MISCELLANEOUS.
     The Swedish astronomer Svannerg          has this year received
  the prize bequeathed    by Lalande,     to be given annually      for
  the best work on astronomy.
     M.  Leonhard,     of Hanau,    near  Frankfort on the Main,
  has announced an intention       of publishing annually a work
  on mineralogy, upon an       extensive scale. He solicits ori
 ginal communications, and purposes publishing his first vo
 lume on the 1st of January, 1807i under the title of             "  A
 Mineralogical Pocket Book."
     Several   of the medical literati on the continent are at pre
 sent engaged     in making inquiries and experiments upon the
 influence    of  music in the cure of diseases.
    A  lying-in hospital   has been established at     Halle, in Sax
 ony, upon an extensive and liberal plan.           The subscription
 for its erection has been rilled, and a large fund is also pro
 vided for its annual support.
    The editors of the Gazette        de SantS have     announced     a
 premium of a gold medal, of         the value  of   200  franks,  for
the best answer to the     following questions     :
                                                      " What   are the
 proximate causes     of epidemics? Do they         depend upon va
 rious miasmata which are conveyed through the medium of
-the air,    or are they occasioned by actual contact ? Or do
 they depend merely upon the qualities of smells ? Is it clear
that all stimulants arc preservatives against infection?"
    The answer may bo written in Latin, French, English,
Italian, Spanish, or German, and must           be given     in on or
before the 1 7th January, 1807.
    The emperor Napoleon has purchased, from his brother-
in-law prince Borghese, the famous Borghese Villa and all
its contents at the price of 13 millions of franks : the valu
able collection of antiquities it contained are to be transport
ed to Paris in order to enrich the Napoleon museum.
                                                            TRAVELS.

          Travels.— Longevity. — Chemistry. — Lectures.                   31 1
                                   TRAVELS.
    A letter from Goree, dated 3d March,                   1 806,  gives  the
 following information respecting Mr. Park               :
                                                             " We have   just
 received information from the interior, that Mungo Park
 has been some time on the banks of the friger, but could
 Hot build the boats as he intended, his carpenters being all
 dead, together     with all    the soldiers    of our corps    (35 in num
 ber)  who went with           him, except seven       ;   who, with Mr.
 Park, Lieutenant         Marlyn of our corps,           and a    Mr. Scott
 an artist, have proceeded         in canoes down the Niger ; a bro
 ther-in-law of Mr. Park (named Anderson) went with
 him, as surgeon, but died on the banks. They all left Go-
 ree in   April    last.    I  saw    the   negro who brought the in
 formation,     and    have    every    reason to believe he is correct.
 Should you meet with any of Mr. Park-s friends, this news
 may be acceptable to them. About seven weeks since he
 was seen    in  good    health."
    The counsellor of        the mines      of Denmark,        M.   Gieseke,
 who    lately returned to Copenhagen from his voyage to the
 Faro Islands, has received permission from his Danish ma
jesty to   set sail for Greenland,         where he will undertake a
 mineralogical and geographical inquiry into the state                of that
 extensive    country.
                                 LONGEVITY.
    In  the list  of persons who       died    in the year 1805, in the
 heptarchy of Pinsask, in Russia, five of them were 1 1O years
 of age ; one of     1 13 j four of 120 ; one of 128 ; one of 130 ;
 and one    of the uncommon          age  of  150 years    1
                                CHEMISTRY.
    Mr. Parkes-s Catechism, for            the use  of those who are en
 tering upon the study of chemistry, and which we an
 nounced in our Number for December last, is now publish
 ed in one volume octavo.
                                  LECTURES.
    On Monday, June 2d, a Course of Lectures on Physic
 and Chemistry will recommence at the Laboratory, Whit-
 comb-strect,      Leicester-square, at the usual morning             hours  :
                                        A   a 2                          viz.

372                      List of Patents.
viz. Therapeutics   at a quarter before, the     Practice   at half
after 8  ; and the Chemistry at a     quarter after  9 ; by George
Pearson,    M.D. F.R.S. senior physician          to   St. George-s
Hospital, &c. &c.
   The Practice of Vaccination will be taught at the Institu
tion, 44, Broad -street, Golden-square, according to the plan
proposed in a former Number of our Journal (May 1803).
   Further particulars may be had at St. George-s Hospital,
or at 52, Leicester-square.
           LIST OP PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
   To Anthony Francis Berte, of the parish of St. Dunstan
in the West, in the city of London, merchant; for a ma
chine for casting or founding types, letters, and ornaments,
usually made use of in printing.       April 29, 1806. -
   To William Bundy, of Pratt Place, Camden Town, in the
parish of St. Pancras, in the county of Middlesex, mathe
matical-instrument-maker      ; for a  machine or instrument for
the purpose of making leaden bullets and other shot. May l,
1806.
   To Stephen Hooper, of Walworth, in         the county of Sur
rey, gentleman ; for an      aqueduct    tunnel,  or machine for
cleansing docks and other basons of penned water, and cer
tain improvements on machines or machinery (for which
he hath already    obtained letters    patent) for cleansing dry
and other harbours,     rivers, creeks, bars of harbours, and
other purposes.    May 3, 1BOG.
   To William Robert Wale King, of Kirby-street, in the
parish of Si. Andrew, Holborn, in the county of Middlesex,
tin-plate worker; for his new improved method of manufac
turing tin or iron plates covered with tin, commonly called
tin plates, into covers for dishes and plates. May 8, 1806.
   To Martin Cawood, of Leeds, in the county of York ; for
an improvement in the manufacturing metallic cocks, for
conveying and stopping liquids. May 15, 1806.
   To Richard Willcox, of the parish of St. Mary, Lambeth,
in the county of Surrey, mechanist ; for certain improve
ments in steam-engines.       May   21, 1806.
                                                         METEORO

                                     Meteorology.                                     873
                             METEOROLOGICAL              TABLE,
                      By     Mr. Caret,        ,of    the Strand,
                                    For May      1806.
                       Thermometer.
Pays of the                                 Height of
                       8.1                  the Barom.    «   r     d      Weather.
  Month.                      0"m     o
                                      o
                                              Inches.     OJOio >.
 April   27           45°     52°     43°    30*10             22°      Cloudy
         28           42      47     40      29.78             25
         29           43      55     45         •56            35       Cloudy
         30           46      54     46         •67            28       Showery
    May  l            50      56      51        •80            29       Cloudy
                      54      63      53        •60            48       Fair
          6 5 4 3 2
                      4S      46      41        •78            0        Rain
                      45      46      44     30.06             17       Rain
                      44      52      46        •02             5       Rain
                      50      64      55     29'78             30       Fair
                      55      68      55        •59            36       Fair
           9 8 7
                      56      69      56        •56            45  Fair
                      54      63      56        •50            15  Cloudy
          10          55      67      55        .65            60' Fair
          11          50      62      55        •80            11  Cloudy
          12          50      59      45        '75            27  Fair
*
          13          45      51      48        •70             5  Cloudy
          14           50     60      52        •40             0  Rain
          15           55     62      53        •59            42  Fair
          16           55     66      54        •94            51  Fair
          17           54     Co      55     30.02             41       Fair
          18           58      70     54        •30            70       Fair
          19           56      65     51        •35            65       Fair
          20           52      69     50        •20            66       Fair
          22           51      48     68        •18            50       Fair
          23           50      62     51        •20            60       Fair
          24           54      71     52        •02            62       Fair
          95           56      73     61     29•99             57       Fair
          261          60      73     59        •90            71       Fair
                      N. B. The     barometer's height   is   taken at noon.

                                   t   374   3
                 INDEX to VOL. XXIV.
Academy        at Erfurt, 89; at          Balsams. Exper. on,           61
   Gottingen, 90 ; at Turin, 275;         Barley. Exper. on,            64
   of Genoa, 281 ; Stockholm,             Bath. Analysis of the hot springs
                                             at,                       342
Acid, muriatic.   On production           Beans. Exper. on,              64
  of, by Galvanism, 91, 167,              Beet.root sugar,               91
       170, 172, 176, 185, 244            Benzain. Exper. on,            61
Acids. Effects of, on urinary cal         Biddies experiment on frozen
  culi,                   25, 120            mercury examined,          322
Aerostation,                    282,367   Birdlime. To prepare, 131; pro
Affinities, chemical. On, 284, 350           perties and analyses of,   134
Agricultural machine. Patent, 287         Bitumen.   On production of,  8
                                                                        J
Alkalies.    Effects of, on urinary       Blue, Prussian. On,          234
   calculi,                25, 115        Bohea tea a  cure for dropsy, 91
American Societies,             282       Books. New,              265, 368
Analysis of chromate of iron, 3 ;         Botany,                        89
   of guano, 126; of birdlime,            British Institution,           83
   13 1; of ox bones, 264; of             Brossy on density of frozen mer
   Paris waters, 286; of sulphu              cury,                      322
   retted oxide of manganese,3Z4;         Buch on muriatic acid and soda
   of Bath hot springs,         342          produced by Galvanism, 244
Anatomy,                        180       Buds. On reproduction of,      75
Antimony.     On combinations of,
                                 236      Cachemire goat. On the,       97
Antiquaries.    Society of, 83, 181,      Calculi, urinary. On,    25
                           276,363        Camphor.    Exper. on,        64
Antiquities,                        284   Canals. Patent relating to,   94
Apodes.      Two new   genera of, 329     Caoutchouc.   On,             39
Artillery.   Patent,                190   Cards, playing. Origin of, 180
Asafatida. Exper. on,                63   Carey's   meteorological tables,
Astroblepus.    On the,             329                 96, 192, 288, 373
Astronomy,                          188   Catalepsy cured bv vital air, 246
Athenaum at Poictiers,     365            Caterpillars. To destroy,     213
Atmosphere.  State of water in,           Ceres. Tables of,             188
   103 ; Marine. On,       272            Chain.pumps.  Patent,         191
Azote, gaseous oxide   On, 57,
                          of.             China. Russian embassy to 93.
                                    ?'5                                 366
                                                                  Chromate

                                      INDEX.                                         374
   ChromaU of iron.          Analysis of, 3     Electrical ciperiminlss,
                                                                                        79
   Cioni on production of muriatic              Elcctrogene     of Schmid,.    On, 250
        acid by Galvanism,                167   Epilepsy cured by vital air,
   Cities. Antient, discovered, 284                                                   247
                                                Eremophilus. On the,                 329'
   Civilization.         A  prize question,     Erfurt   Academy,                       89
                                          188
    Clark's patent,                       igi   Falling    bodies.  On,
                                                                                        93
    dough's patent,                       191   Filtration on a large scale,
                                                                                      314
    Coffee.      Spirits from,            568   Finsbury Dispensary,                  221
    Collard      on chemical afEn.        284   Fire.arms. Patent,
                                                                                        94.
    Collenbuch on urine,                    44  Flinders' meteorological remarks,
    Cometarium. Walker's,                   37        .                               37I
     Compression. Effects of, on heat,          Flunk,    elastic. On, 8,   I ,' ; weight
                                    140, 193        of, 24 ; on respiring, c 1 ; the
     Copenhagen.        Society of Sciences,        ory of mixed,
                                                                                      103
                                          187   Flys and cranks. Patent respect.
     Copper precipitated by tin !         284    Jng*                                   94
     Crane. Patent,                         94  Fossil skeleton    found in Glouces
     Cranks and fly s. Patent respect-              tershire,
                                                                                         9a
      „ Jng',             .                 9+  Fourcroy's    analysis  of   bones,   262
     Crusades. A prize question,          278   Freezing. A prize question,
                                                                                      187
      Curr's patent,                       190  Fr.nch National Institute,
      Cuthbertjon on production of
                                                                                      278
                                          mu
          riatic acid by Galvanism,        170  Galvanic Society, Paris,              182
                                                Galvanic chain described,             181
      Dalton on elastic fluids, 8, 1 5 j        Galvanism, 91, 167, 170, 172,
          on absorption of, by water,                                   176, 183, 203
          &c. 15 ; on theory of mixed,          Cr<w«.      On mixtures of, 8 ; on
                                                    absorption of, by water, &c.
                                                       j
                                           103
       Dampier's patent,                   190       1 ; on weight of,
                                                                              24 ; on re
       Dsafness cured,                      92      spiring, 51, 21     j;     theory of
       Decarro on the Cachemire goat,               mixed,
                                                                                       I03
                                 .,   ,     97  Gasometer.      Steevens's,
                                                                                       163
       Dupan on gaseous oxide of azote,         Germain on spirits from potatoes,
e
                                        . 2l.5                                         209
       Distillation. Improvement in, 37         Gibson on sutures in skulls,
                                                                                      256
       Dropsy cured by bohea tea, . 9 1         Goerlitz Societv,                      igj
       Dnfour on destroying insects in           Gold. On oxide of,                      60
           gardens,                        213  Golthxm       Academy,     90; univer
S3     Dunbar's meteorological        observ        sity.
                                                                                       187
           ations,                          95   Gravelly     concretions.       On, 25,
        Dunlop's new quadrant,             363                                          114
        Dyeing.    On,                 49, 69    Gregory's     treatise  of     mechanics,
                                                    Account of,                        26c
        Earth.     Rotatory motion of, 93        Gregory on the lever,
                                                                                       362
        Economical Society, Bahama, 282          Griffiths on a worm.shell,              8e
        Egan on gravelly and calculous           Grinding of .woods, &c. Patent
 .          concretions,             25,114         for>                    ,
  _      Elastic fluids.  On,            8,  15  Guaiccutn. Exper. on,
                                                                                       196
                                                                                         64
                                                                                   Cunio.

   sit                         INDEX.
   Guano. On,                     126   Juno. Tables of,                   i83
   Gums. Exper. dn,       62, 63, 81
   Gun.loch. Patent,              191   Keir's patent,                    287
                                        Kentish's patent,                    94
  Hall fSir J.) on heat modified by.    Kepler. Monument to,               188
     compression,     140, 193, 291     Knight    on   the  reproduction of
  Hatchet on tannin,     58, 81, 155       buds, 75;     On  vegetable  phy
 Haussman on metallic oxides and           siology,                       362
     dyeing,                        69
 Hawkins     on vaccination,      204   Lac. Exper. on,'                    61
 Heat. Effects of, modified by          Lady Raleigh's letters,           364
     compression,     140, 193, 291     Lagrange on birdlime,             131
 Hemp spinning. Patent for,       190   Lassalle's patent,                287
 Hen. A remarkable,               287  Laudanum. Cure for deleterious
 Hermhsladt's black dye,           49     effects of,                       47
 Herschel on solar motion,        180  Laugier's analysis of chromate
 Hides. Patent for splitting,     191     of iron,                            3
 Higgins on manufacture of sugar,      Learned Societies,      81, 180, 36I
                                 308   Leather. Patent for glazing and
 Hill on   pneumatic medicine, 247        graining, 1 90 ; for splitting,l 9 r
 Hmchliffe's patent,             191   Lectures,              189,287,371
 Holbein's Dance of Death, de          Liquorice. Exper. on,                63
     stroyed,                      92  Literature. Russian, 93 ; a prize
 Holme on caoutchouc,              39     question,                      365
 Home on prostate gland, 180 ; on      Logan's patent,                    190
    sea worm,                    361   London Institution,               274
 Horse.shoes. Patent,            191   Longevitv,                        371
                                                         _
 Hortentz on production of mu          Lysons on playing cards,           180
    riates by Galvanism,           91
 Humboldt on two new genera of         M' Adam's patent,                  19 1
    apodes, 329 ; on pimelodus,        Magnesia found in bones,          262
    333; on a new species of           Manganese. On oxide of, 69 }
    monkey,                      339      Analysis of sulphuretted oxide
                                          of,                            3»4
Japan. Russian     embassy to, 93      Manna. Exp. on,
Iceland, Improvement of,               Manure. On a natural,             126%
                                 283
Imperial Academy, Turin,         278   Marine atmosphere. On the, 272
Imperial Russian Society,        364   Marshall's patent,                  94
Indian rubber. On,                 39  Martin on geology,                3*>3
Indigo. Exper. on,            59, 73   Mechanics. New works on, 265,
Insects.    To destroy in gardens,                                       269
                                 213   Medical     Society,   Lyons,   282 ;
Johnston's    improved worm.tub,          Brussels,                     366
                                   37  Medicine, 47, 91, 92, 246, 247
Jones's patent,                   94   Mercury. On density of frozen, 322
Iron. White sulphate of,           72  Meteorology,       95, 96, 192, a88
..      . On oxidation of, 223 ;       Mews. Meaning of the term, 84
    sulphates of, 226; prussiate       Miller's patent,                  287
    of,                          232   Mineralogy,                      28   j
                                                                      Mines.

                              INDEX.                                    311
Mines. Patent for working, 287         Prussiates of iron. On,          232
Minstrels, antient. On,            83  Publications, new,         265, 368
Mississipi river. Meteorological       Resins. Exper. on,           60, 81
   observations at,               95   Respiration. Experiments on,       ji
Monkey. New species of,          339   Rotting. Patent to prevent, 190
Mooti. On apparent magnitude           Royal Society, 81, 180, 271,361
   of,                           240   Royal   College of Surgeons,     276
Muriates. Production of, by Gal        Royal Jennerian Societv,           84
   vanism,                  91, 167    Royal Society, Copenhagen,       365
Muscovado Sugar, Manufacture           Royal Academy, Stockholm,        365
   of,                           308   Russian Embassies,           36, 366
Music,                           284
                                       Salj. Patent for making,
                                                                          94
Naylor's patent,                   94  Sampson's patent,                  94
                                       Sarcocol. Exp. on,                 63
Optical phenomena,               440   Schmidt's electrogene. On,       2 jo
Orsted oil sound,                35 1  Ships.   Machine   for transporting,
Ottley's patent,                 191                                    189
Oxidation of metals,             223   Skins. Patent for splitting, 191
Oxides, metallic.   On,            69  Smishson's    discovery of native
Oxygen gas.     On respiring,      53     minium,                       274
                                       Soap. Patent,                    287
Paccbiani, on composition of mu        Societies. Learned, 81, 180, 361
   riatic acid,                  176   Soda. On production of, 91, 244
Pallas. Tables of,               188   Sonorous vibrations. On,         25 1
Pari, the traveller,             371   Spar. Recent production of, 182
Parr's patent,                   191   Spirits from potatoes,           209
Patent inventions. 94, 190, 287,       Sfeevens's gasometer,            163
                                 372   Sternberg on electrogene,        250
Peas. Exp. on,                    64   Stone-sawing. Patent for,          94
Pelts. Patent for splitting,     191   Sugar. From beet.root, 91       ; on
Petrini, on production of muria           manufacture of,               308
   tic acid by Galvanism,        167   Sulphate, •white, of iron,         72.
Pfaff's experiments on respira         Sulphates of iron. On,           226
   tion,                           51  Surgery,                         286
Pimelodus.    New species of, 333      Sutures in skulls of animals.    On,
Pit.coal. Origin of,               8 1                                  256
Place's patent,                  1 91  Syphon.    New application of,     37
Plunlett's patent,               287
Phillips's analysis of Bath hot        Tannin. Hatchett on, 58, 81, 15c
   springs,                      342   Taunton's dispensary report, 221
Phillips's patents,               94   Taxation, a prize question, 187,
Pneumatic medicine. On, 47, 246,                                        365
                                 247   Tea, a cure for dropsy,            91
Potash. On production of,          91  Telescope, patent,               190
Potatoes. To extract spirits from,     Thenard on combinations of an
                                 209      timony and tin,               236
Preston's patent,                387   Tin. On oxide of, 69 ; combi
Prize   quesiiont,  187,  278,281,        nation of antimony with, 236
               282, 365,   36'), 369   Tinder.lox, patent,                94
                                                                   Thornton

si*                              t tf   If   E! ».
 Thornton on pneumatic medicine,            Volcanoes  of the Andes,      33$
                             47, 246
 Tragacanth. Exp. on,               63      Walker's Cometarium,           J7
 Transit instruments. Walker on,            Walter. On magnitude of moon,
                                   289         340 ) on transit instruments,
 Travelj,                          286                                    289
Trusses,  patent,            1 9 1, ib.     West's patent,                190
                                            Wheat. Exp. onr,               64.
 University, Gbttingcn,           366       White lead. Patent,           287
 Uric acid. On,                     25      Whytock's patent,             190
 Urine. On prognostics from, 44             Willcox's patent,             190
                                            Winds. On,                    37*
Vaccination,    84, 180, 204, 270,          Woodhouse's patent,            94
                                   281
 Vauquelin on guano,' 126; on               Tarn. Patent for   dressing,  19*
   sulphuretted oxide of manga
   nese,                           324
                                ERRATA.
Page 166, line 10,       for   " the    solution," &c. read « the sil
   ver, again dissolved in nitric acid and diluted," &c. — Page
    167,  1.  18,  for  "Civni,"           read   " Cioni." — Page       183,
   1. 18, for " tension," read "charge."
The plate of Mr. Steevens's Gasometer,                   instead    of being
   numbered PI. III. should be PI. V.
               END OF THE TWENTY.FOURTH               VOLUME.
          Printed by R. Taylor and Co., 88, Shoe Lane, Fleet Street.

                                                         Ffulo.Maf.FU      Vol.JXlV.
                       Horizontal view  ofJlir  in, Water
      Incumbent Stratum, ofAtmosphere ^Particles marked, thus.
       Stratum, of ulir in, Water marked thus x
                                  Fu,.3
^izotic   8c Myirogmans     Gas           QxyqenousJVvtrous  k CarburettcdSydro^en
Distance    of ^articles 4.to x.          Cos       Distance  of Tarticlcs 3 to l.


                              Philo. May. FLU. Vbl     JUT.
jProfde Ttew   of\Air in   Water.
           . Surface
              Water
                     Oxygeiwiis ^Nitrous Jc Carburetted Hydro -
                              pen gas %j Densitv .
             Fuj. Z.
          Wot

W'
 .V'   V



.1
   HHl I UM 1
              5
                „„v7


                             Philo May.TlMTolJXnr.
   MT Stcevens 's Gaz.onuter  .
                                          Xowrv sadp
94

•'
\<».

L_   JUL   'i&k
            m


   Phil*. Maa.fl . VU7. Vol. _!.:.
Tig.Z.




s
               V*
Rep,aced^^—^W
              Microform
          W3

BOUND            UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
                            1
JUL31ii*2      3 9015 03539 4124
UNIV. «F MICH.
   LIBftARY
                            f

     ¦¦:.«*'
1 hH
             M

