The philosophical magazine.
London, England : Taylor & Francis, 1798-c1977.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uva.x002266016
                              Public Domain, Google-digitized
                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                              We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                              meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                              free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                              in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                              heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                              of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                              copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                              of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                              need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                              address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                              produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                              on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                              the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                              or used commercially. The images are provided for
                              educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.



I


 -  -•              .0
                - 9
                    -
         9
                  *    -'
„  »/. -V -.- «
                    227548

                                THE
     PHILOSOPHICAL                         MAG.
                 (and JOURNAL?)
    I. Description    of  a new Gazometer    and Blow-pipe.     By
                         Joseph Hume, Esq.
                                   Long Acre, London, June 13, 1814.
           A very      simple apparatus to serve as a gazometer
and blow-pipe, and one that can be formed with ease and at
little expense, will probably be acceptable to the majority of
your readers, as well as to those experimentalists who are not
furnished with the usual instruments.
     As an example, and that I may more clearly describe the
 principles and advantages of' such an apparatus, I send you a
 sketch of one constructed with vessels which I had at hand and
are applicable to other purposes, and which most chemists pos
 sess ; for, whoever wishes for a combination to produce analo
 gous powers, will soon perceive that this contrivance is not
 limited to any particular size or form, but that others may be
 adopted ; and that the flame of the lamp can be supported by
 the operator inhaling the air into his lungs, as well as by the
 ordinary custom of exhalation and, consequently, the application
 of contaminated breath.
     In the present case 1 have taken a common Woulfe's receiver
 with three necks ; a separating funnel ; two stop -cocks, which
  are of glass and belong to two of Nooth's machines ; and a piece
 of glass tube properly bent and drawn out for the blow-pipe.
  These form the whole of the plan which I now offer to your
  notice, and which are arranged agreeably to the following ex
  planation   :
     A, (Plate I. fig. 7.) is the Woulfe's bottle with three necks,
           and filled with water ;
     B,  is the separating funnel, fitted into the middle neek of the
           bottle ;
     C,  a blowpipe, inserted into another neck of the same.
 Vol. 44. No. 195.    July  1814.             A                 D   and

 2       Description   of a   new Gazometer      and Blow-pipe.
     D and E, the two stop-cocks, fixed in their places,       as shown
           in the figure.,
     The whole being thus connected, it is obvious that, if the
 operator open both the cocks and, with his mouth applied to E,
 suck out or inhale the air out of the superior vessel, the water
 will then ascend and occupy the place of the air thus exhausted ;
 while the receiver below will have gained a proportional quan
 tity gf atmospheric
               "
                           air which had entered through the stop
 cock at D'.     If both cocks be then instantly shut, the whole of
 the water, drawn up into the superior vessel B, will retain its
 position and may be there kept for any time.
     Now, if a lamp, with a proper wick and lighted, be placed
 before the blow-pipe C, and the cock E be then opened to ad
 mit the atmospheric pressure to act, it is evident that the water
 in the funnel will begin to descend and take its former station,
 and, consequently, the air in the Woulfe's receiver, having no
 other way to escape, must be forced out at the aperture of the
 blow-pipe and through the flame of the lamp.
     In this way I have found, that a very few cubic inches of
 common air are sufficient to impel the flame of the lamp, while
 a person can hermetically seal up a small glass tube, or perform
 some other useful or amusing experiment on minute objects.
     When all the water has descended it must again be raised by
 suction as before, first opening the stop-cock D. This must be
 done at every operation, and will not occasion so much fatigue
 and continual blowing as when the blow-pipe alone is employed
in the ordinary way.          It affords also another advantage to an
 experimentalist, that of having both hands at liberty, which is
particularly requisite in the formation of small glass instruments.
    Bya very evident contrivance, that of connecting the tubulure
 at D with a common bladder or receiver containing oxygen, hy
drogen or any other gaseous fluid, and then by inhaling from the
orifice or stop-cock at E, as has been already explained, this in
strument can be charged with either of these airs, and in this way
k may be employed as a gazometer or blow-pipe. In some cases
the blow-pipe must be closed or furnished with a stop-cock, parti
cularly when for certain experiments hydrogen is to be admitted.
    It is almost superfluous to mention another useful application
of this apparatus, namely, to convert it into the hydro-pneu- .
matic blow-pipe of Mr. Tilley, which is so well explained in the'
Philosophical Magazine for April. This is to be accomplished
merely by introducing a long metallic or glass-tube into the ori
fice at D, in place of the stop-cock ; and in such a manner that,
when firmly secured and luted, it may reach from within a very
little of the bottom in the water, and proceed upwards to the
vary top of the whole apparatus.             This tube, externally from

On a Substance which         becomes a violet-coloured              Gas by Heat. 3
D,  should be so conveniently bent as to be held in the mouth
of the operator,     who, in place of inhaling as before, will now
have to keep up a constant nourishment to the flame by occa
sionally blowing in through this tube and thus forcing the
water to ascend into jB ; whence it will act by pressure as be
fore, the cock E being left open for that purpose. It will in some
degree assist the power           in the intervals of blowing, the
                                      if,
tongue   or lips  be so  managed as to stop the superior aperture
of this tube. But as Mr. Tilley's instructions are before your
readers    Ishall not intrude further respecting this part of my
subject.
 I   am not aware that any contrivance of the same description,
and one that admits of such facilities in the construction, for
feeding the blow-pipe            by
                               inhalation has ever been employed,
otherwise      should not have troubled you with this communi
                I
cation for public notice.
                       remain, sir,
                        I
                             Your very obedient servantj                                   '
                                                                   Joseph Hume.
To Mr. Tilloch.
II.    Some Experiments and Observations on a new Substance
      which becomes a violet-coloured Gas   Heat.   By Sir   by
      Humphry Davy, Knt. LL.D. F.R.S.*
A new       and   very curious substance has recently occupied the
                    a
 attention of chemists at Paris.
    This substance was accidentally discovered about two years
 ago       M. Courtois, manufacturer of saltpetre at Paris. In
          by                 a
his processes for procuring soda from the ashes of sea weeds,
 (cendres de vareck) he found the metallic vessels much corroded                          ;
and in searching for the cause of this effect, he made the dis
covery.     The substance       procured from the ashes, after the
                                 is
extraction of the carbonate of soda, with great facility, and
 merely      the action of sulphuric acid —when the acid
               by                                     :         con                is
centrated, so as to produce much heat, the substance appears
as    a vapour of     beautiful violet colour, which condenses in
                        a
crystals having the colour and the lustre of plumbago.
    M. Courtois, soon after he had discovered       gave specimensit,
ofit   to MM. Desormes and Clement for chemical examination                               ;
and those gentlemen read        short memoir upon
                                      a               at    meeting     it,   a
of the Imperial Institute of France, on Nov. 29th.      In this me
moir, these able chemists have described its principal properties                         ;
they mentioned that its specific gravity was about four times
           * From   the Philosophical       Transactions   for 1814, part     i.
                                            A   2                                       that

4    Some Experiments and Observations on a new Substance
that of water      ; that it becomes a violet-coloured gas at a tem
perature   below      that of boiling water ; that it combines with the
metals and with phosphorus and sulphur, and likewise with the
alkalies and metallic oxides ; that it forms a detonating com
pound with ammonia; that it is soluble in alcohol, and still more
soluble in ether ; and that, by its action upon phosphorus and
upon hydrogen, a substance having the characters of muriatic
acid is formed.          In this communication they offered no decided
opinion respecting its nature.
   M. Ampere had the goodness to give me some of this sub
stance ; and M. Clement having requested me to submit it to
some analytical tests, I made several experiments upon                it,  which
convinced me that         it   was  a    new substance undecompounded in
any of the circumstances to which            I    was able to expose  it  ;  and
that the acid formed in processes upon            it   was not muriatic acid,
but  a new acid possessing          a   striking resemblance to that body.
   M. Gay-Lussac (to whom M. Clement had furnished some of
the substance, and with whom he had made some experiments
upon       before the communication              of his memoir) on Monday,
Dec.  6, it read to the Institute        a         in
                                              paper,    which he stated that
the acid formed       by     its action on hydrygen      is
                                                         a       peculiar one.
He mentioned several interesting particulars respecting the
mode of its production, and he compared                 it to oxymuriatic gas
or chlorine, and stated that two hypotheses might be formed on
its nature    ;  and that      it  might be considered as an undecom
pounded       substance,      or   as   a compound of oxygen. M. Gay-
Lussac   is    still  engaged    in  experiments on this subject, and from
his activity and great sagacity,         a    complete chemical history of      it
may be anticipated.            But as the mode of procuring the substance
is now known to the chemical world in general, and as the com
binations and agencies of           it   offer -an extensive field for inquiry,
and   will probably occupy          the   attention of many persons and as
                                                                      ;
the investigation of      it   is   not pursued   by   the discoverer himself,
nor particularly     by    the gentlemen to whom         it  was first commu
nicated  ; I    shall not hesitate to lay before the Royal Society an
account of the investigations            I    have made upon    it;     and I  do
this  with   the    less  scruple,    as  my particular   manner     of  viewing
the phaenomena has led me to some new results, which probably
will not be considered by the Society as without interest in their
relation to the general theory of chemistry, and in their possible
application to some of the useful arts.
   The first experiments that            I     made on this substance, were
to ascertain whether (argentane) muriate of silver could be
formed from its solution in water or alcohol, and for this pur
pose  it   was purified        by   distilling
                                             it    from lime.     Its solution  I
found, when mixed with solution of nitrate of silver, deposited
                                                                       a    dense

            which   becomes a violet -coloured Gas by        Heat.                5
a dense precipitate of a pale lemon colour : this precipitate, when
collected and examined, proved to be fusible at a low red heat,
and then became of a red colour.         When acted upon by fused
hydrate  of potassa,  it was  rapidly  decomposed,    and a solid sub
stance, having  all the  characters   of oxide of silver, was formed.
The matter soluble in water separated by a filter, and, acted
upon by sulphuric acid, afforded the peculiar substance.
   A solution of potassa, after being boiled on the precipitate,
afforded the peculiar substance, when treated by the same acid.
   The precipitate was much more rapidly altered by exposure
to light, than the muriate of silver, and was evidently quite a
distinct body.
   Conceiving, from the action of potassa upon      that    it,
                                                            must      it
be  a compound of the peculiar substance and silver,      endea       I
voured to form    directly
                    it           by
                             the combination of the two bodies.
I introduced some of the substance into the closed end of small           a
glass curved tube, and placed in the upper part of    some silver
                                                              it
foil;   Iheated the foil nearly to redness, and then passed the
substance over       in vapour there was an immediate action,
                    it                :
the silver was rapidly dissolved, and    fusible substance formed,
                                               a
in all its obvious sensible and chemical characters, the same as
that obtained from solutions of the substance          by
                                                   nitrate of silver.
    The modes which occurred to me, as most likely to effect its
decomposition       by
                   chemical agents, were the action of the highly
 inflammable metals upon      which unite to oxygen and chlorine,
                             it
or the action of chlorine which in general tends to the expulsion
 of oxygen, and to the separation of inflammable bases from that
principle.
 I    heated some potassium in      little glass tube, and passed
                                          a
some of the substance in vapour over        at the moment the va
                                               it  :
pour came in contact with the potassium, there was an inflam
mation, and the potassium burnt slowly with         pale blue light.
                                                       a
There was no gas disengaged when the experiment was repeated
in mercurial apparatus.
    a
   The substance formed by the action of potassium was white,
fusible at a red hea^, and soluble in water.        had a peculiar
                                                       It
acrid taste. When acted upon              by
                                     sulphuric acid,     effervesced,
                                                              it
and the peculiar substance appeared.
   It was evident that in this experiment there had been no de
composition of the body the result seemed to depend merely
                            ;
upon the combination of      with the potassium.
                                it
 I   exposed the body to the action of chlorine in        small glass
                                                                  a
tube ;    absorbed the chlorine, and a substance formed which
         it
was volatile   byheat, and which appeared as        yellow solid
                                                       a                      ;   it
was soluble in water, and rendered the water of            yellowish-
                                                                  a
green colour and strongly acid     the solution when acted upon
                                          ;
                                     A3                                           by

    6   Some Experiments and Observations on a neui Substance
    by solution of potassa not in excess effervesced, and afforded the
    peculiar substance.
        The acid formed by the solution of the substance united to
    chlorine reddened vegetable blues by its immediate contact, and
    soon after destroyed them.
        When the new substance was heated in oxygen gas, or brought
    in contact with red hot hyperoxymuriate of potassa, it seemed
    fo undergo no change.
        MM, Desormes and Clement had stated, that, when the sub
    stance is combined with the metals, metallic oxides could be
,   obtained from the solutious;       I suspected that this depended
    upon the presence of moisture, or upon oxygen derived from
    the air, and experiment justified my suspicion.
        I heated the substance with iron, mercury, tin, zinc, and lead,
    out of the contact of air; it united to them without any violence
    of action, and formed compounds fusible at a moderate heat,
    and volatile at a higher temperature.        All the compounds, ex
    cept that of zinc, which was white, were coloured of different
    shades of red brown, red and orange ; the compound it formed
    with tin was of a deep orange, that with iron of a bright red
    brown, that with lead a bright orange, that with mercury an
    orange still more approaching to red, and which, when crystal
    lized, was bright crimson.
        The compound of iron and the substance, when exposed to
    an alkaline solution, immediately deposited black oxide of iron ;
    but when I heated
                         'it
                         in     a small retort containing pure ammo-
     piacal gas, no such chmge occurred, and       it  combined with the
     ammonia, and formed       a  compound which volatilized without
    leaving any oxide.
        The compound of the substance with tin was soluble in water,
     and had the characters of an acid.       combined with the alkalies
                                              It
     without depositing oxide.
        The crimson compound of the substance with mercury united
     in the same manner without decomposition to potassa, and by
     the action of sulphuric acid, sulphate of pctassa was formed,
     and the compound of the substance with mercury disengaged.
        When the substance     ismade to act upon phosphorus, the two
     bodies combine with great rapidity at common temperatures,
     producing heat without light; small quantities of a strongly
     acid gas generally arise from the mixtme, and      by the application
     of heat it   isproduced in greater quantities.       When the subr
     stance is    excess, an easily fusible and volatile compound of
                 in                                                     a
    red colour     obtained
                  is       ;  when the phosphorus       is  in excess, the
     greater part of the product      more fixed.
                                         is
        I examined the gaseous acid formed         by the action of phos
    phorus with attention.          gives
                                    It     dense  white   fumes  by   com
                                                                   bining

                 which   becomes a violet-coloured          Gas by Heal.            7
billing with the aqueous vapour in the air. It has a smell very
similar to that of the solid compound of chlorine and phos
phorus, which itself is very analogous to that of muriatic acid.
It is rapidly absorbed by water. When made to act upon am
monia, it forms with it a dense' white salt, which, when acted
upon by sulphuric acid, affords the peculiar substance, and at the
same time a smell of hydrogen is perceived.           When mercury is
heated in the acid gas, the same compound as that produced by
the action of the new substance directly upon mercury is formed,
and hydrogen equal to half the volume of the gas is disengaged.
When potassium is njade to act upon             there it, no inflamma
                                                                   is
tion as in muriatic acid gas, but the potassium becomes con
verted into a body similar to that produced                   by
                                                      its combustion in
the vapour of the substance, and a gas equal to half the volume
of the acid gas, which burns in the same manner as hydrogen,
is disengaged.
   When the easily fusible and volatile compound of the sub
stance with phosphorus         heated in water,
                                  is                   rapidly dissolves
                                                              it
in   it,and forms a strong acid, which, when evaporated, leaves
hydrophosphorous acid, and which, before its evaporation, neu
tralized        by
             potash, and acted on                by
                                          sulphuric acid, affords the
peculiar substance.
   When the difficultly fusible substance        forms with phospho
                                                        it
rus   isacted on         by
                        small quantity of water, and heated in a
                              a
glass tube, much gas spontaneously inflammable              disengaged, is
and a white sublimate arises, which, when acted on by cold
water, becomes hot, and affords        considerable quantity of gas
                                             a                                 a
having all the properties of hydrophosphoric gas.
   The solution of this crystalline substance in water, neutra
lized by potash, and decomposed                  by
                                          sulphuric acid, afforded the
peculiar   substance   but ;when   the  solution   was heated strongly
before its neutralization,        left only hydrophosphorous acid,
                                       it
which when heated gave off hydrophosphoric gas, and became
 phosphoric acid.
     It  easy to explain all these phaenomena, except the produc
          is
tion of the acid gas, which         a compound of the peculiar sub
                                        is
stance and hydrogen:       to  account   for the appearance of this
body,       itnecessary to suppose the existence of hydrogen or
                    is
of water in the substance, or of hydrogen in phosphorus.
 I    used the substance distilled through quick lime, which there
is every reason to believe would absorb all the water united to                    it
                                                                                    :
in this case the acid gas, which gave hydrogen when decom
posed       mercury, was produced in much smaller quantities
               by                                                                   5
but, when the substance was moistened, the gas was afforded in
•very      large quantities       It   is   probable,   that   a    little hydrogen
                                            A   4                            existing

8    Some Experiments and Observations on a new Substance
existing in the phosphorus, and which appears when that sub
stance is acted on by Voltaic electricity, may influence the re
sult; but I am inclined to attribute it principally to the mois
 ture adhering to the substance, and I have never been able to
produce more gas from the fusible compound by distilling it
with a new quantity of phosphorus.
    When the fusible compound of the substance with phosphorus
is distilled with a small quantity of water, the gas produced
seems to be of the same kind as that obtained by the action of
heat during the combination ; and both these gases when ab
sorbed by water afford, when acted upon by nitrate of silver, the
same product as that formed by the action of a solution of the
substance in water on the same salt.
    I attempted to form a compound of the substance with hy
drogen directly, by heating it in several experiments to redness
in a glass tube filled with hydrogen. When the gas was moist,
or when the tube contained vapour, a strong acid fluid was
formed of a deep yellow colour. When the gas and the sub
stance were dry, there was an expansion of volume ; and on
breaking the tube, fumes appeared similar to those produced
by the action of the gas formed during the union of phosphorus
and the substance, and which precipitated in the same manner
a solution of nitrate of silver.   This peculiar acid, which con
sists of the substance united to hydrogen, has a very strong at
traction for w7ater, and a very small quantity of water absorbs a
large quantity of the gas ; and when combined with water, it
rises with it in vapour, and in its state of liquid acid it rapidly
dissolves the substance, and becomes tawny.
    The new substance, as MM. Desormes and Clement have
shown, is rapidly soluble in solution of potash ; when it is in
excess the solution becomes red brown.          On evaporating the
mixture and heating it to redness, a substance is formed, ex
actly similar to that produced by the combination of the sub
stance with potassium.
    As potassa is a compound of potassium and oxygen, it is
evident that, to form a compound of potassium and the sub
stance from potassa, oxygen must be expelled, and I found by
 experiment that this was the case ; and in investigating mi
nutely the action of fixed alkaline solutions on the substance, I
ascertained the existence of a class of substances, precisely si
milar to the hyper-oxymuriates,      consisting of oxygen, the subr
stance and potassium, and formed in a manner exactly analo
gous.
    If the substance is thrown into a moderately strong solution
of potassa, as it dissolves, crystals fall down, and by saturating
                                                                the

             which  becomes a violet-coloured Gas by Heat,        9
the solution with the substance, considerable quantities are ob
tained. By pouring off the mother-liquor and evaporating it a
 little, more of the crystals fall down.
     All these crystals, if precipitated from a solution not too
much saturated, are of the same kind ; they are little soluble in
 water, have a taste analogous to that of the hyper-oxymuriates
 of potassa, scintillate when thrown upon burning coals, and
 form a deflagrating mixture when mixed with charcoal.       When
 fused, they give off abundance of oxygen gas, and become the
 same substance as that formed by the action of potassium on
 the new substance.
     If the liquor which has ceased to afford the crystals be eva
 porated to dryness, it yields a considerable quantity of a sub
 stance which is not capable of detonating with combustible
bodies, and which is the same as that afforded by the com
 bination of the substance with potassium.
     It is evident then that the oxygen contained in the potassa is
 newly combined by the action of the new substance, and two
compounds formed ; one consisting of potassium and the new
substance, the other of potassium, the new substance, and the
oxygen contained in the potassa.
     By passing the vapour of the substance over dry red hot po
tassa formed from potassium, oxygen is expelled, and it appears
that oxygen cannot remain in the triple compound at a heat
above the red heat.
     By dissolving the substance in solutions of spda and baryta
similar results are obtained, and in each case two compounds
are formed.       The oxygen is condensed in one, and the other
 consists simply of the new substance and a metal.
     To separate entirely the deflagrating salt from the soluble
salt is not easy, there always remains in the mother-liquor a
little of the deflagrating compound ; but by separating the first
crystals from solution of potassa not too strong, the deflagrating
compound of oxygen, potassium, and the substance is obtained,
apparently pure.
     As the new substance combines with potassium and the me
tals with much less energy than chlorine, it occurred to me,
that it would probably be expelled from its combinations by that
body ; and this I have found to be the case in all the experi
ments I have made.        When the compound of the new substance
and potassium is heated in contact with chlorine, potassane
 (muriate of potassa) is formed, the violet gas appears, but soon
 combines with chlorine, and they form together the peculiar acid
compound I have before described ; but towards the end of the
process, as the proportion of chlorine diminishes, the violet-co
loured     gas again appears.
                                                             When

10 Some Experiments and Observations on a new Substance
    When the compound of the substance with silver was treated
in the   same manner (argentune) muriate of silver was formed,
and the substance combined with chlorine at the commencement
of the operation, but was disengaged uncombined towards the
end.
    Similar phaenomena occurred when the compounds of the
substance with mercury and lead were acted on by chlorine.
    The action of acids on the compounds of this substance is
what might be expected from its analogies to chlorine.
    When concentrated sulphuric acid is poured upon the com
pound of the substance and potassium, some of the substance
appears ; but a part of it rises in combination with hydrogen
and water, and condenses by cold, and appears of a deep orange
colour from having dissolved some of the substance.        The sul
phuric acid likewise seems to retain some of the substance ; for
it continues red after being strongly heated, and the acid is
partly decomposed, for sulphurous acid gas is disengaged.
    It seems probable, that the acid is decomposed to furnish
oxvgen to a portion of the potassium which quits in consequence
the new substance, and that water is likewise decomposed to
furnish hydrogen to another portion of the substance ; and that
the hydrogen and the substance, in their acid form, combine
with the water of the sulphuric acid, and rise in vapour, sulphate
 of potassa being at the same time produced.
    When sulphuric acid is poijred on the> salt consisting of the
substance, oxygen, and potassium, the substance reappears, and
there is a slight effervescence.   In this case, part of the oxygen
is employed to form potassa, and the remainder is expelled un
 altered.
    When concentrated nitric acid is made to act on the triple
compound, similar phaenomena occur, and the substance reap
pears with effervescence.
    When nitric acid is applied to the double compound, there is
a smell of nitrous gas, and the substance is instantly repro
 duced.
    Wfth concentrated muriatic acid, the phaenomena presented
by the two different alkaline compounds, the binary and the
 triple, are very interesting.  When the acid is brought in con
 tact with the triple salt, there is no effervescence, but a sub
stance, which appears to be a compound of chlorine and the
 new body, is formed and dissolved in the water of the acid, and
 potassane is precipitated.
    When the double compound is used, there is a complete so
 lution with a partial decomposition 5 and by applying a gentle
 heat, the excess of muriatic acid is driven off, and the same acid
as that procured by the action of the substance on hydrogen re-r
                                                              plains

             which   becomes a violet-coloured     Gas by Heat.           1 1
mains dissolved in the liquor. When mixtures of the two salts
are employed, the substance itself appears.
   It   appears that in the iustance when the triple compound is
employed, there is not only sufficient oxygen to attract the hy
drogen from the chlorine which is to combine with the potassium,
tmt likewise enough to decompose a portion of muriatic acid,
sufficient to afford chlorine to enter into combination with the
whole of the substance.
     When the binary compound is used, the result is a simple
instance of double affinity; the new substance quits the potas
sium to unite to the hydrogen of the muriatic acid, and the
chlorine and the potassium combine : and that the decompo
sition is only partial depends probably upon the attraction of
 the compound of iodine and potassium for water.            When mix
tures of the compounds are used, the oxygen                ,is
                                                           employed to
 attract hydrogen from the substance, to which          itseems to ad
 here with    amuch weaker attraction than to chlorine.
     MM. Desormes and Clement have mentioned, that when the
 new substance        exposed to liquid ammonia,
                     is                                ablack powder       is
 formed, which, when dry, fulminates by the slightest contact or
 friction.   I  introduced some of the substance into solution of
 ammonia, and separated the liquor from the black powder, and
 evaporated    it  to dryness ;    left
                                  it       white saline substance, the
                                           a
  same as that produced by the union of ammonia with the peculiar
  acid, which consists of the substance combined with hydrogen              ;
 and hence    it  appeared probable that       portion of ammonia had
                                               a
  been decomposed to furnish hydrogen.       -
  I    made the experiment on the action of strong solution of
  ammonia on the substance in a pneumatic apparatus               but no
                                                                  ;
  azote was given off.      Hence     am induced to conclude, that the
                                      I
  black powder       a compound of the new substance and azote,
                    is
 similar in its character of      binary compound to the detonating
                                  a
  oil discovered    byM. Dulong; and this conclusion       strengthened
                                                           is
  by the results of its detonation       a tube of glass partially ex
                                          in
 hausted :   they are,    I find, the peculiar substance and          gas
                                                                      a
  which is  not inflammable, and which does not support flame               ;
  and unless the substance        ismoist,     have never been able to
                                               I
  discover any other product; but the minute quantity               have
                                                                      I
  employed prevents me from being confident on this point.
   It    was an object of considerable interest to ascertain the pro
  portion in which the new substance combines, as compared with
  that in which the other substances that form acids            their ac
                                                                 by
  tion on inflammable bodies enter into union.
  I     made several experiments on this subject.         Four grains of
  hydrate of potassa,     Ifound, were saturated       6-25 of the new
                                                      by
 substance,      aud 2-8 the quantity of potassium in four grains of
                                                             hydrate

12   Some Experiments and Observations on a new Substance
hydrate of potassa is to 6- 25 the quantity of the substance, as
75, the number representing potassium, is to 166. Again, one
grain of hydrate of soda required 2- 1 grains of the new sub
stance for its saturation, and one grain of hydrate of soda con
tains -578 of sodium; so that, supposing the combination of the
new substance with sodium to contain a double proportion of
the substance, the number representing the proportion in which
it combines will be nearly 160.
   Two grains of the compound of the substance with sodium
decomposed by sulphuric acid afforded 128 of dry sulphate of
soda, and calculating on this experiment the number is 165-5.
   I have made some experiments on the quantity of the sub
stance absorbed by tin, mercury, and lead.        Mercury absorbs
nearly three-fourths    of its weight of the new body to become
the crimson substance ; from which it appears that it must ab
sorb two proportions.
   My experiments have been made upon quantities too small to
afford very exact results ; but they show that the new substance
enters into union in a quantity much more than twice as great
as that of chlorine, and, considered as an element, it offers a
number much higher than those of the simple inflammable
bodies, and higher even than those of most of the metals.
   The most correct mode of ascertaining the number represent-
ing the proportion (supposing it to be definite, as is the case
with all other bodies that have been accurately examined) in
which it combines, will probably be by ascertaining the specific
gravity of its gaseous compound with hydrogen.        This gas, as
I have stated, affords only half its volume of hydrogen, and it
appeared to me to neutralize an equal volume of ammonia ; so
that, supposing it to consist of two proportions of hydrogen, and
only one of the substance, that    is,to be analogous to muriatic
acid gas in its nature,it  must be one of the heaviest elastic fluids
existing.
  Taking the number representing the proportion in which the
new substance combines as 165, and supposing that        it  occupies
the same volume in this gas that chlorine occupies in muriatic
acid gas, 100 cubical inches of the gas will weigh at mean tem
perature and pressure- 95-27 grains,      e. supposing hydrogen in
                                         i.
the same quantity to weigh 2-27 grains.
 I    am not at present in possession of an apparatus for weigh
ing the gas with accuracy.     A  particular device will be required
for this purpose, as the  gas  cannot   be preserved over mercury.
It  may be collected during the action of phosphorus on the
moistened substance in     avessel exhausted of air ;   orit  may be
made   by heating the compound of the substance and potassium
in muriatic acid gas  in a glass vessel  :  in this case, there is,
                                                                  I
                                                   >

            which lecomes    a violet-coloured   Gas by Heat.        13
find, a double decomposition, the chlorine quits        the hydrogen:
to unite to the potassium, and the substance quits       the potassium
to unite to the hydrogen.
    The new substance, I find, is not decomposed          when Voltaic
6parks are taken in it in its gaseous state from         ignited points
of charcoal : at first there are white fumes, probably from the
action of moisture or hydrogen in charcoal, on the substance ;
but these fumes soon cease, and when the tube in which the
experiment is made is cooled, the substance appears unaltered.
    From all the facts that have been stated, there is every
reason to consider this new substance as un undecompounded
body.      In its specific gravity, lustre, the high number in which
it enters into combination and colour, it resembles the metals ;
but in all its chemical agencies it is more analogous to oxygen
and chlorine ; it is a non-conductor of electricity, and possesses,
like these bodies, the negative electrical energy with respect to
metals, inflammable and alkaline substances ; and hence, when
 combined with these substances in aqueous solution and elec
trized in the Voltaic circuit, it separates at the positive surface :
but it has a positive energy with respect to chlorine ; for, when
united to thlorine in the compound acid I have described in
pages 5 and 6, it separates from the chlorine at the negative sur
 face. This likewise corresponds with their relative attractive
 energy.     Chlorine expels the new substance from all its com-,
 binations on which I have made any experiments.
    The new substance seems to possess a stronger attraction for
 most of the metals than oxygen ; but it is expelled from phos
 phorus and sulphur by oxygen : I found by passing oxygen and
 the compound of it with phosphorus through a glass tube heated
 red, phosphorous acid was formed, and the violet gas appeared.
    That it produces so little heat and so seldom light in entering
 into combination, may be accounted for from its solid form and
 its great weight as an element.         Potassium, however, as I have/
 mentioned, burns in the violet-coloured gas, and when this gas
 is thrown upon the flame of hydrogen, it seems to support its
 combustion.
    The saturating or neutralising powers of the new substance
 appear to be greater than those of oxygen, and less than those
 of chlorine.
     It agrees  with chlorine and fluorine in forming acids with hy
 drogen, and it agrees with oxygen in forming an acid with
 chlorine.
     In my first experiments I conceived that it formed substances
 analogous to alkalies in combining with the alkaline metals ;
 for the compound produced by its action upon solution of po-
 tassa, even when the substance was in great excess, reddened
                                                                turmeric

 14   Experiments and' Observations     on a new Substance,         &c.
'turmeric paper, and rendered green paper tinged with the jitiee
  of violets : but I have since found that this is owing to a small
  quantity  of,subcarbonate of potassa which existed in the hydrate
  of potassa; and when the compound         treated with the acid
                                            is
  the substance- forms with hydrogen, and heated to redness,                it
 loses this property; and when thus formed, its taste more re
 sembles that of       aneutral salt than of an alkali.    I cannot yet
 say with certainty whether its compound with potassium has
 powers, like the oxides, of neutralising those acids which          does
                                                                    it
 not decompose, as in all the experiments        I  have made on this
 point used the compound which reddens turmeric
       I                                                       this neu
                                                               :
 tralised the phosphorous, sulphurous, and boracic acids; but the
 effect may possibly depend upon the undecomposed carbonate.
    The name tone has been proposed in France for this new sub
 stance from its colour in the gaseous state, from tov, viola         and
                                                                        ;
 its combination with hydrogen has been named hydroionic acid.
 The name tone, in English, would lead to confusion, for its com
 pounds would be called ionic and Ionian.          By terming     iodine,
                                                                   it
 from icuS>jf, violaceous, this confusion will be avoided, and the
 name will be more analogous to chlorine and fluorine.
     The acid      forms with hydrogen may, however, be with pro
                  it
 priety  named    in  our language hydroionic acid.        I venture to
 propose   for the   acid  itforms  with chlorine,   the name,  of chlo-
 rionic acid, and for that   forms with tin stannionic acid.
                                it                                With
respect to the other compounds, they may be called as              classa
iodes, with the name of the base, as iode        mercury, and with
                                                 of
proto, deuto, &c. to signify the proportions     ;or  if   termination
                                                           a
to the base should be preferred, as    Ihave proposed for the com
binations of chlorine, the terminations may be in m, with the
vowels in their usual order to signify proportions.       Thus, pfws-
phoroma would signify the combination of one proportion of
iodine with phosphorus, and phosphorome would signify two
proportions of iodine to one of phosphorus.
   If this last plan, which involves no theoretical views, should
be adopted,      may be extended with different consonants to the
                  it
combinations of fluorine, and the vowel may be made to signify
the proportion, and the consonant the nature of the compound.
The vowel of termination, to the Latin name of the base,           have
                                                                    I
already   proposed,  on  another  occasion,  for  the   compounds     of
oxygen.     Thus,   argenia may  be  made   to  signify  the  protoxide
of silver, and ferre" the deut-oxide of iron,     n   isthe consonant
which have suggested to represent the combination of chlo
        I
rine, as argenlana the protochloride of silver and    ;        Iin this
system may represent fluorine.       Thus calcula. would be fluor
spar, or one proportion of fluorine and one of calcium         ;and the
different combinations of calcium with the supporters of com
                                                                bustion

       Proposal  for   an Improvement   of the Galvanic Trough.      15
                                                                        *
bustion with oxygen, fluorine, chlorine, and iodine in one pro-
portion, would be thus expressed — calca, calcala, calcana, and
calcama.
    I  throw out these     hints for discussion, rather than with any
wish for their adoption, and for the purpose of directing the
attention of chemists towards the subject of nomenclature, which
ought to be settled on some fixed principles ; and in naming a
new class of compounds, great caution should be used to pre
vent the necessity of alteration.
     In my last paper, presented to the Society two months ago,
I  ventured to suggest that it was probable, that new species of
matter, which act with respect to inflammable bodies, like oxy
gen, chlorine and fluorine, would be discovered. I had not hoped,
at that time, to be able so soon to describe the properties of a
body of this kind, which forms an acid with hydrogen, like
chlorine and fluorine, and which in some of its combinations
resembles oxygen.
    This new fact will, I hope, do something towards settling the
 opinion of chemists respecting the nature of acidity, which seems
 to depend upon peculiar combinations of matter, and not on any
 peculiar elementary principle.
     It is probable that iodine will be found in many combinations
 in nature.     We may expect that it will be discovered in various
 marine vegetables, and in sea water ; and probably tne loss of
 weight indicated in the analysis of certain fossil substances may
 depend upon its expulsion.
     Its compounds with the metals will probably form a new class
 of pigments ; and it is not impossible, that the triple salts it
 forms containing oxygen, may be made substitutes for nitre in
 the manufacture of gunpowder.
    Paris, Dec.  10, 1813.
   III.   Proposal for an Improvement of the Galvanic Trough.
            If                                        March 14, 1814.
                you should deem the following worthy a place in your
 next number, it is much at your service.         I beg to remain
                                    Your most obedient servant,
     To Mr. Tilloch.                                          A. B.
    The late important and highly interesting discovery of Sir H.
 Davy has rendered the Voltaic battery an apparatus of such
 extensive    application,  that any improvement,    or any suggestion
 which may tend to an improvement, cannot be unacceptable.
     Plate I. fig. 1 . A. The trough, which should be made of earth
 enware, with partitions and lateral grooves for the plates to slip
                                                                  into.

16                  Errors in the Nautical Almanac.
into.    B, small conical vessels (as fig. 6.) for the purpose of
containing mercury, to insure the absolute contact of the wires
of the connecting rod c, which must be made of baked wood.
DD, wires for connecting the plates. E, the stand and adjust
ing screw. 4. Glass plate and stand. 5. An apparatus for fixing
the conducting wires to, which will be found very useful.               It
consists of the joint A, and two pieces of glass tube and platina
wires.     It will also remove the inconvenience of holding the wires.
Figs.   2. and 3. are longitudinal and transverse sections.
    It must appear very evident, that the above will form an
 apparatus precisely similar to the couronne des tasses of Volta,
 when the rod c is let down.
     I do not pretend to say this would be an improvement ; but it
 is an interesting question, whether a battery on this plan would
 not act with a greater promptitude.             If after trial it should
 not be found to possess any peculiar advantages, it will be at
 least well adapted for the public lecturer, as his young hearers
 will be enabled to form a better idea of the nature of Voltaic
 electricity.     I ought, however, to state that I have not myself
 had an opportunity of trying the arrangement which I have sug
 gested.
    IV. Errors of Criticus Secundus in his Communication
              respecting the Nautical Almanac for 1815.
                               To Mr. Titloch.
  Sir, —    I  have sincerely to entreat your forgiveness for having
          committed      an error in one part of my communication of
 myself
 last month, concerning the errors in the Nautical Almanac for
  the year 1815, where I have copied out the Trinity Sundays in
 the two months that are right, instead of those that are wrong.
  Thus we see that sometimes errors are catching.               The only-
  reparation    I  can  now   make,   is  to announce   the  mistake, and
  point  out  the   correction, by observing    that the  numbers   of the
 Trinity Sundays in the two months of July and August are right
  as printed in the Almanac, but that all those in the four months
  June, September, October, November, as printed, are wrong,
 being all one too little.
                               I am, sir,
                                         Your humble servant,
    July n, 1814.                                 Criticus Secundus.
    >
                                                                   V.  An

                                  [     17    ]
V. An Account of          a Family having Hands and Ftet iv'ilh su-
    fierjntmerari/ Fingers and Toes.             By Anthony Carlisle,
    Esq. F.R.S.         In a Letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir
    Joseph Banks, Bart. K.B. P.R.S.*
Dear Sir, —The following               accountofof a family having hands
and feet with supernumerarv fingers and toeSj and the hereditary
transmission of the same peculiarity to the fourth generation,
appears to be worth preserving, since it displays the influence
of each of the propagating sexes ; the male and the female
branches of the original stem having alike reproduced this re
dundancy of parts.          I have carefully inspected two persons of
this family at the time of their being in London, namely, Abiah
Colburn, and his son Zerah Colburn, and have taken the parti
culars of the rest from Abiah Colburn himself, whose narrative
was several times repeated to me, without any deviation.
     Zerah Colburn, a native of the township of Cabot in the
province of Vermont, in North America, has been lately brought
to London, and publicly exhibited for his extraordinary powers in
arithmetical computations from memory.                This boy has a super
numerary     little fmger growing      from  the outside of the metacarpus
 of each hand, and a supernumerary little toe upon the outside
of the metatarsus of each foot. These extra fingers and extra
 toes' are all completely formed, having each of them three per
fect phalanges with the ordinary joints, and well shaped nails.
     Abiah Colburn, the father of Zerah, has five fingers and a
thumb upon each hand, and six toes on each foot ; he has also
five metacarpal bones in each hand, and six metatarsal bones
 in each foot. The extra limbs have distinct flexor and extensor
 tendons.
     The wife of Abiah Colburn has no peculiarity in her limbs.
 During the existing marriage, she has borne eight children, six
sons, and two daughters.            Four of those sons inherit the pecu
liarity of their father more or less complete, while the two
 daughters are free from the family mark, as well as two of the
 sons, namely, the fourth in succession who was a twin, and the
 eighth.
     The eldest son of these parents, named Green Colburn, has
 only five toes on one of his feet, but the other foot and both
 his hands possess the extra limb.
     The second child, Betsy Colburn, is naturally formed.
     The third, Zebina Colburn, has five fingers and a thumb upon
  each hand, and six toes upon each foot.
      The fourth and fifth were twin brothers,           and named David
           * From    the Philosophical  Transactions for 1U14, part i.
 Vol. 44. No. 195. July 1814.                         B                 and

]8                     Account  of a Family
and Jonathan ; David, who is dead, had nothing of the father's
mark, but,
    Jonathan has the peculiarity complete.
    The sixth, Zerah Colburn, the extraordinary calculating boy,
is marked like his father, as before described.
    The seventh, Mary Colburn, is naturally formed.
    The eighth and last child, Enas Colburn, is also exempt from
 the father's peculiarity.
    Besides the persons I have mentioned, this hereditary redun
dance of limbs has been attached to the little fingers and to the
little toes of several of the ancestors of the family. The mother
of Abiah Colburn brought the peculiarity into his family.        Her
maiden name was Abigail Green : she however had not the ex
tra finger on one of her hands; the other hand and her feet
were similarly marked with those of her son Abiah.
    David Colburn, the father of Abiah, had no peculiarity.       By
his marriage with Abigail Green, he had three sons and one
daughter.     Two of these sons and the daughter were fully
marked    in all the limbs ; the other son had one hand and one
foot naturally formed.
    Abigail Green inherited these supernumerary limbs from her
 mother, whose maiden name was '              Kendall, and she had
five fingers and a thumb upon each hand, and six toes on each
foot.
    The marriage of           Kendall with Mr.           Green pro
duced eleven children, whom Abiah Colburn's mother, who was
one of the eleven, reports to have been all completely marked:
but the present family are unacquainted with the history of the
other ten branches, and they do not possess any knowledge of
their ancestors beyond '       - Kendall, the great grandmother    of
Zerah Colburn.
    Numerous examples of the hereditary propagation of pecu
liarities have been recorded: all family resemblances, indeed,
however trifling they may appear to a common observer, are
interesting to the physiologist, and equally curious ; though not
so rare as those described in the preceding history.        In every
department of animal nature, accumulation of facts must always
be desirable, that more reasonable inductions may be established
concerning the laws which direct this interesting part of crea
tion : and it might be attended with the most important con
sequences, if discovery could be made of the relative influence
of the male and female sex in the propagation of peculiarities,
and the course and extent of hereditary character could be as
certained, both as it affects the human raee in their moral and
physical' capacities, and as it governs the creatures which are
subdued for civilized uses.     Nor is it altogether vain to expect,
                                                                that

               ivi(k supernumerary       Fingers and foeSi           19
 that more profound views and more applicable facts await the
 researches  of men, who have      as yet only begun to explore this
branch of natural history, by subjecting it to physical rules.
    Though the causes which govern the production of organic
 monstrosities, Or whidi direct the hereditary continuance            of
 them, may for ever remain unknown, it still seems desirable to
 ascertain the variety of those deviations, and to mark the course
they take, where they branch out anew, and where they ter
 minate. There is doubtless a general system in even the errors
 of nature, as is abundantly evinced by the regular series of mon
 strosity exhibited both in animals and vegetables.
    It has happened in my professional capacity, that I have had
tp extirpate a supernumerary thumb from each of the hands of
two girls, who were both idiots, though the families to whom
they belonged were unknown to each other.            I have seen many
instances of supernumerary thumbs and supernumerary fingers
in   persons to whom the singularity was not hereditary, and I
have read of many others      ; but whether of my own experience,
or of authentic record, the redundancy has been on the outer
tide of t}ie little finger, and outer side of the thumb, never on
 the back Qr inside of the hand, or on the sides of the interme
diate fingers: and in similar cases as to the toes, the rule has
been invariably the same.       In the Sacred Writings an example
pf this kind is given, II Samuel, ch. xxi. ver. 20. "And
there was yet a battle in Gath, where was a man of great stature,
 that had on every hand six fingers, and on every foot six toes,
four-and-twenty in number ; and he also was born to the giant."
The same account is repeated in I Chronicles, eh. xx. yer. 6.
    In the Elemenla Physiologies of Baron Haller, numerous
examples of this deformity are cited from various authors, with
ijpme instances of their hereditary descent, and others of a
cutaneous junction between the extra limbs and the next ad
joining*.
    That local resemblances, such as those of external parts, the
hands, the feet, the nose, the ears, and the eye-brows, are here
ditary, is well known ; and it is almost equally evident, that
«ome part? of 1 the internal structure are in like manner trans
mitted by propagation: we frequently see a family form of the
legs and joints, which gives a peculiar gait, and a family cha
racter of the shoulders, both of which are derived from an he
reditary similarity in the skeletons.       Family voices are also very
common, and are ascribable to a similar cause. Apparently
many of our English surnames have been taken from the here
ditary peculiarities of families, and the same practice existed
                          •
                            Vide vol. viii. p. 9?.
                                B  2                             among

20 Account     of a Family with   supernumerary     Fingers and Toes.
  —  ' .             4
 among the Romans.         Pliny, in his eleventh book, chap- xliii.
relates an instance of a Roman poet, named Volcatius, who had
 six fingers on each hand, and received the surname of Sedigitus
 in consequence.      He also states, that two daughters of a noble
 Roman, named M. Curiatius, had each six fingers, and that
 they took the surname of Sedigitae.      Persons who had the sur'
name of Flaccus were so called from their pendulous ears ; and
 numerous other instances are recorded by classic writers of sur
 names being derived from family marks.
    Anatomical researches have not been so generally extended
 as to determine the prevalence of internal peculiarities, and per
 haps they do not reach to the sanguineous system.              I have
known two instances, in two different families, of the high di
vision of the brachial arteries having the ulnar branch placed
 above the fascia of the biceps muscle at the inner bend of the
 elbows, and yet the father, the mother, the brothers and sisters
of those two persons were not so formed.          Those marks called
ncevi materm, which are derangements of the sanguineous ves
sels, are not hereditary, whilst less remarkable changes in the
 ordinary skin are often so.     I have lately seen a man, and who
is now living, who has a small pendulous fold attached to the
skin of his upper eyelid, and the same peculiarity has been
 transmitted to his four children. It would have been interesting
 to know, whether any similarity of structure existed in the fa
 milies of the two rare examples of a total transposition            of
 the abdominal and thoracic viscera.         (Phil.  Trans-  for 1674,
No. cvii. p. 146, by Dr. Sampson, and vol. lxxviii. p. 350.)
    In particular breeds of animals, the characteristic signs are
 generally continued, whether they belong to the horns of kine,
 the fleeces of sheep, the proportions of horses, the extensive va
rieties of dogs, or tlje ears of swine.     In China the varieties of
 gold and silver fishes are carefully propagated, and with us,
 what are vulgarly called " fancy pigeons" are bred into most
 whimsical deviations from their parent stock.
    As wild animals and plants are not liable to the same varia
 tions, and as all the variations seem to increase with the degree
 of artificial restraint imposed, and as certain animals become
 adapted by extraordinary changes to extraordinary conditions,
it may still be expected that some leading fact will eventually
furnish a clue, by which organic varieties may be better ex
 plained.    A few generations of wild rabbits, or of pheasants
 under the influences of confinement, break their natural colours,
 and leave the fur and feathers of their future progeny uncertainly
 variegated.     The very remarkable changes of the colour of
 the fur of the hare, and the feathers of the partridge, in high
 northern latitudes, during the prevalence of the snow, and the
                                                            adaptation

         On a riew Apparatus      for preparing Muriatic        Acid.     21
adaptation of that change of colour to their better security, are
coincidences out of the course of chance, and not easily ex
plained by our present state of physical knowledge.
               I have the honour to be, dear sir.
                         Your much obliged and obedient servant,
To    the   Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks,            Anthony Carlisle.
             Bart. K.B. P.R.S. &c.
 VI. Description of       a new  Apparatus     for preparing with Faci
     lity and (Economy pure Muriatic A"id.                By L. V. Bru-
     gnatelli. Read in the Italian Institute*.
 o     F all the chemical apparatus generally used for preparing the
 acids, unquestionably that employed in the manufacture of mu
 riatic acid is the most complex and expensive. For this pur
 pose, a large tubulated retort, a balloon glass with two necks or
 a tubulated globular glass, Woulfe's apparatus, tubes of security,
 and lutes of the best quality, are required.            The operator also
 requires much dexterity to unite these divers pieces, to conduct
 the operations, and great care in transferring the concentrated
 muriatic acid from the balloon glass to the bottles in order to
 avoid its noxious fumes.           However well the process may be
 conducted, the acid, by the common method, still retains a dirty
 yellow colour, and is injured by sulphuric acid.                The means
  adapted     for  purifying it are  very   troublesome,   and   are likewise
  attended with a considerable loss of acid.
      Considering that all muriatic acid is disengaged from com
  mon salt in the state of gas, and that this gas combines very
  rapidly with pure water, I have devised a simple apparatus with
  which it can be condensed by water, purified from the sulphuric
  acid and the greater part of the colouring matter.           Having made
  the experiment several times-, I have found it always answer per
  fectly my expectations.       This new apparatus consists of only
  three pieces: 1st, a matrass which may or may not be tubu
  lated ; 2dly, a bent tube made in the manner represented in
  fig. 8. Plate I. which constitutes the most important part ; and
  3dly, a common glass receiver rather narrow and high, its
  mouth ground and made to receive a ground stopper.                    In the
  matrass a, fig. 1. placed over a sand-bath, put, for example,
  eight ounces of clean culinary salt dried to a coarse powder.
   In the bent tube bb, introduce a solution of muriate of barytes,
  which should be raised to the same height in the two arms e,
  forming its curvature.        Pour five ounces of sulphuric acid on
      * From Brngnntelli's
                             Giomale  de Fisica, Chimica, Storia Naturale,&c.
   vol. vii. April 1814.
                                       B  3                                 the

22        On a new Apparatus          for prtparlhg Muriatic          Acid.
 the salt; to the neck of the matrass immediately adapt the berit
 tube, inserting it through a cork, which also contains a capil
 lary tube communicating with the matrass,      the latter be not
                                                               (if
 tubulated,) and made air-tight with some soft wax.     When the
white fumes appear in the other extremity of the bent tube                         it
 must be promptly inserted in the mouth of the receiver, which
 should contain distilled water equal in weight to that of the
salt employed, but not occupying above half its capacity.     The
mouth of the receiver must be slightly closed with           cork          a
'through which the long limb of the bent tube passes.     As sorih
as the muriatic gas has begun to be disengaged, continue                           it
without interruption at the ordinary temperature and pressure
of the atmosphere, and, after    time, add fire to the apparatus
                                          a
in the course of the process, in order to develop the gas with
 greater rapidity.
    The solution of muriate of barytes put into the curvature                      a
 of the tube lb ascends during the passage of the gas into the
 expanded part     f, which      partly filled again and hence all the
                                 is                            ;
 acid gas      constrained to traverse
              is                               it,
                                               and as    were wash itself,
                                                               it
 previous   to  reaching   the  water   in   the  receiver Q.   If in the
 course of the process the solution of barytic salt put into the bent
 tube decomposes and becomes turbid,               at the same time as
                                                     it
 sumes    adirty yellow colour.      The acid gas which passes into
the receiver       C   sometimes in such
                       is                         quantity in the lower
                                                     a
part of the tube, that the water about           becomes very hot. For
                                                     it
this reason    I have found       convenient to immerse the receiver
                                     it
C   in a larger vessel      containing cold water, or, what.
                            d                                         still   is
better, water mixed with snow.          Near the end of the process,
when the hydrate of muriatic acid (muriatic gas combined with
water) in the receiver           begins to ascend up
                                 C                                   by
                                                              the tube             b,
the capillary tube          g  the matrass must be opened to allow
                                in
the apparatus to cool.      The bent tube         afterwards withdrawn,
                                                     is
and   the mouth    of the receiver        C,
                                         containing the muriatic acid,
immediately stopped,                      ,
   Distilled water at the mean temperature and pressure of the
atmosphere absorbs about 450 times its own volume of muriatic
gas, and increases about one-third its original bulk.           The fftu-.
riatic acid obtained by this apparatus               found very strong,
                                                          is
fuming, transparent, of yellowish colour, and entirely divested
                                a
of sulphuric acid. When tubulated matrasses are not at hand, we
inay use, as before observed,         capillary tube through the cork
                                          a
which closes the untubulated matrass.                t
   In order that the process may be finished with safety and ease,
it    better to operate on
     is                         small quantity of salt, and repeat the
                                 a
process oftener    ifrequired.     Thus the matrass or retort may be,
of small size, and serve for the same process many times;
                                                                          VII. An

                                [   23    ]
VII. An Account of some coloured Snow and Hoar-frost which
 fell at Arezzo March 1813. By M. Fabroni, of Arezzo*.
Pliny      and Livy have mentioned showers of burnt bricks, and
much ridicule has been thrown upon them for it.
    If their expressions however are to be interpreted, as seems
to be reasonable, by the fall of a powder similar to that of
pounded bricks, this phaenomenon was seen in our days through
out the whole of Tuscany, and perhaps still further.
    I now write from Arezzo, in the department of the Arno, and
all that I am going to say on this extraordinary and curious
subject is applicable to the spot where I now am.
    During the evening of the 13th of March 1813, the ground
being almost entirely covered with snow, there fell a new quan
tity of snow, or rather hail not very compact, of a reddish-yel
low colour, which the people improperly called red.
    This hail seems to have begun to fall at nine in the evening,
and to have continued until next morning.          The heaviest fall
took place about three in the morning.
    Lightning was visible during the night : the north wind blew
with considerable force at intervals, and a dull uniform noise
was heard in the atmosphere, similar to what is produced at a
great distance from the sea by a tempest.        The sky seemed to
threaten snow, and some persons thought it was variegated with
reddish-yellow clouds.
    The thunder roared once or twice at the time of the heaviest
fall of the hail. Next day this hail formed a separate stratum
above the snow, from which it was easily distinguished by its
colour. The snow which had fallen first was white, although it had
acquired a state of congelation very similar to the hail. The co
lour was the same not only in all the parts of one and the same
mass of hail, but also in what fell in the interior of the town, in
the plains, and on the adjacent mountains.
    When placed in a clean vessel, the surface was covered with a
foreign substance in proportion as it melted, and after its fusion
it precipitated an earthy sediment and remained turbid for a
few hours.
    If before liquefying it,    was carefully washed until
                               it                            lost its
                                                                  it
 colour, the ice remaining melted without yielding any precipi
 tate: in short,it    did not differ from the water from which the
sediment above mentioned was separated.
    This water when filtered was insipid, inodorous, transparent,
 without colour, incapable of changing turnsole tincture, and of
 disturbing. the solution of nitrate of silver but
                                              ;      became slightly
                                                       it
                  Annates tk Chimie, tome lxixviii.   p.   146.
                                    J$
                                    4                                  opaline

24     An   Account   of   some coloured Snow and          Hoar-frost.
opaline by the use of the ammoniacal oxalate in powder.                  It
was, in short, in appearance similar to that of snow or common
hail. Nevertheless, threee kilogrammes of this water, which I
reduced by evaporation to one decagramme, immediately as
 sumed all the qualities of spring water kept long in open vessels.
    The dry sediment (the proportional quantity of which with
the liquid I could not precisely ascertain, but which might be
 about one gramme to three kilogrammes of hail or snow,) was
 of great tenuity, had an earthy appearance, was soft to the
 touch, and was of a dark nankeen yellow colour : it had neither
 smell nor taste, and was completely incombustible when ignited
bodies were applied to it.
     It was rough on the tongue, shrunk up in the blow-pipe, and
 became of an ochery red.          It gave nothing to boiling water,
 pven after long digestion.       I tried the isolated action of the
sulphuric, nitric and muriatic acids on this substance. All these
 acids produced a brisk but short effervescence : they dissolved a
part of the substance, and refused to dissolve the rest.
    The solutions are of a fine citron yellow, and the first por
 tions of acid employed were the highest coloured.              The tone
of colour becomes lower when the solution cools.
    All of them give a white precipitate upon the addition of
 oxalate of ammonia; and after this re-agent has ceased to pro
 duce the effect, we obtain a precipitate, also white, but more
 considerable, by means of carbonate of potash.
    The calcareous prussiate forms in it at first a reddish shade,
which turns to deep yellow, and afterwards becomes clear : then
 a small quantity of blue prussiate is precipitated.           The nitric
solution is rendered turbid by the nitrate of silver : if we dry          it,
it  presents a   white and not very combustible residue, to which
there must be an addition of acid to make              become soluble in
                                                      it
water.
    The sulphuric solution when pushed to evaporation over the
fire becomes of a deep yellow, and emits sulphurous acid gas.
When the matter       is dried,  ifwe pass distilled water into      itand
filter it,. the substance separated from the liquor has the colour
of bister,  is shining and acid, attracts humidity from the air, and
assumes in some measure the aspect of artificial tannin.                Its
small quantity did not permit me to examine it. The filtered
liquid is   white and acid   :   by the addition of    a little potash,   it
crystallizes in tetrahedral pyramids joined           by
                                                       their bases.   The
carbonisation of the sulphuric solution            not obtained,     if we
              throw  on the                    a is
                                                  little nitric or muria
previously                   earthy sediment
tic acid.
    In general we may say that the acids succeed but imperfectly
in dissolving it, notwithstanding the action of heat.            A  consi
                                                                   derable      5

           Report   of the   Progress   of the    Sciences in France.    25
derable    portion of the substance to           be analysed, always resists
the affusion   of new quantities of acid.
   The best method of producing an almost complete solution
consists in using sulphuric acid, and a considerable quantity of
potash, which nevertheless ought not to neutralize all the acid.
By this means we obtain a salt which has the characters of
alum, although it contains a proportion of alkali greater than
that which is necessary to the crystallization    of common alum,
and we may dissolve the earth with the exception of the same.-
   It results from all the above observations :
   1. That the snow or hail which fell at Arezzo derived its
colour from a very fine earthy substance interposed with uni
formity between the small crystals of the hail, without however
being inclosed in their nucleus.
   2. That this substance is composed almost entirely of alu-
mine, very little carbonated lime, and a still less quantity of iron,
manganese, and silex ; finally, of a very feeble animal or vege
table principle, capable of being carbonized by the action of
sulphuric acid and of putrefying water.
   I do not mean to "-decide upon the etiology of the phaeno
menon which took place during some grand electrical operations
of nature ; but it ought by no means to be ascribed to the
stormy nature of the winds.
   In fact, no storm was experienced in the town or environs :
besides, the wind could not produce effects so perfectly identical
to a great extent, or in all directions, nor porphyrize the earth,-
nor divide it with so much regularity in the mass of snow or
hail.   Lastly, the ground being every where previously covered
with snow, it can scarcely be supposed that the wind could
take up an argillaceous earth with it to scatter it afterwards
with fresh snow.
VIII. Report of the Progress of the Sciences in France in 1813.
                  By J. C. Delametherie.
                    [Concluded   from vol. xliii. p. 439.]
                                  PHYSICS.
This    branch of science determines the laws of motion in va
rious  bodies, and these are divided into two parts ; viz. those
which relate to solid bodies, and those which relate to fluid
bodies.    Lagrange in his Mecanique (tome       considers these
                                                         i.)
laws under two different heads.      . Statics,
                                           1    or the theory of
equilibrium.      Dynamics, or the theory of motion.
                 2.                                         The
theory  of the equilibrium of fluids  consequently
                                           is       denominated
                                                                    Hydro

 26       Report  of the Progress of the   Sciences in France.
 Hydrostatics.     The theory of the motion of fluids has been sub
jected by Lagrange to the most rigorous analysis.
     1. The properties of the equilibrium        of a free system of
bodies, relative to the motion of translation.
     2. The properties of equilibrium relative to the movement of
 rotation.
     Of Statics. Lagrange has referred all the laws of statics, or
 of the theory of the equilibrium of solids, to three principles ;
 that of the lever, that of the composition of forces, and that of
 the virtual velocities.
     Of Machines They make up for the weakness of our or
 gans, and new machines are daily invented.          The Voltaic pile
 has been one of the most valuable discoveries of late years for
 the advancement of science.
     Of Hydrostatics and Hydronamics.
                                               " Although we are ig
 norant," says M. Lagrange (tome i. p. 174), "of the interior
 constitution of fluids, it cannot be doubted that the particles of
 which they are composed are material, and that for this reason
 the general laws of equilibrium cannot suit them as they do
 solid bodies.     In fact, the general property of fluids, and the
 only one which distinguishes them from solid bodies, consists
 in all their parts yielding to fhe smallest possible force- and
 moving with all possible facility."
     In order to conceive the cause of these phenomena, we must
 admit that each particle of matter has a peat liar force, which
 it never loses.
     From sal ammoniac for instance, when triturated with lime,
 the volatile alkali is extricated with all its usual vivacity.
     From the sulphuric acid, when poured upon the same salt,
 the marine acid is also extricated with force.
     The molecules of the ammonia and those of the marine acid
 had each therefore a peculiar force which was in nisu, like those
  of  a spring.
     The molecules of solids, on the contrary, are most frequently
 nearly immoveable, because their peculiar forces are in nuv, as
 in the metals, stones, &c. Nevertheless they have sometimes
 particular motions, like those of warm substances, sonorous
 bodies, electric bodies, &c.
     The molecules of fluids have a constant rotatory motion
 around their axis or point of equilibrium, and they yield to the
 least force.    Whereas solids oppose all their vis inertirs in the
 ratio of their masses.      This is the cause of the differences ex
 hibited by   solids and  fluids m their motions.
     Fluids are divided into two classes : Ethereated fluids, which
  Davy improperly calls imponderable fluids.           Non-ethereated
                                                                fluids.

          Report   of the Progress of the           Sciences       in France*         ij
fluids, such as water, oil, &c. We shall make known the addi
tions which have been made this year to our stock of knowledge
on this subject.       Bremontier          has published           some interesting
observations on the movement               of waves.
    Rhulahd has made some new experiments on the radiation of
heat: he has proved that the more caloric is Ibsl by bodies by
radiation, the more the surrounding bodies arc obiiged to give
up to them their proper heat, in order to re-establish the equi->
librium of fieat.    (Journal de Physique, Nov. 1813.)
    It appears to me that we may conclude that there is thus
established a double movement of caloric : viz. a caloric effluent
From warm bodies, and a caloric affluent from bodies less warm.
    The greatest heat ever produced has been obtained by Sir
Humphry Davy, by means of the Galvanic battery of the Royal
Institution.    (Here follows a description of the apparatus and
experiments, which are familiar to our readers.)
    Configliati, by repeating the experiments of Leslie upon arti
ficial cold, has obtained some very curious results, and succeeded
ill                          •
      freezing mercury.
                                 CHEMISTRY.
   Under this head M. Delametherie passes       just eulogium on
                                                               a
the recent labours of Sir Humphry Davy and Berzeliuj, of whose
improvements he giyes     full analysis.
                           a
   He then notices the labours of tire French chemists. Bouillon
Lagrange and Vogel have furnished        new analysis of different
                                                  a
kinds of sea-water  viz. from the Mediterranean, at Marseilles,
                      ;
#uid the Ocean at.Bayomre and Havre.
   One thousand grains      of
                           sea-water frorn Havre yielded                      :
                                                                        Grains.
       Of Saline matter obtained           by    evaporation            3C-
                           ......................
                                                                   ..
           Carbonic acid                                                 0- 23
           Muriate of soda                        .-26"10
           Muriate of magnesia     .u .......... . 3-50
                                       .   •.
           Sulphate of magnesia                                          5-78
           Carbonate of lime and magnesia                . .   ....      0 20
           Sulphate of lime                                              015
  One thousand grain* *f Sea-water froift feayomie afforded                       :
    Of Saline matter       by
                        evaporation               38-
       Carbonic acid'                              0-23
       Muriate of soda                            25-10
       Muriate of taagnes-ia                       S*30
       Sulphate       of
                    magnesia                       5-/                       8
       Carbonate of lime and magnesia              0-20
       Sulphate of lime
             r
                                                                                  One

28      Report    of the  Progress   of the Sciences in France.
   One thousand grains of sea-water taken at Marseilles yielded :
                                                               Grains.
      Of Saline matter by evaporation                          41-
         Carbonie acid                                          0-11
          Muriate of soda                                      25-10
          Muriate of magnesia                                   5-25
         Sulphate of magnesia                                   6- 25
          Carbonate of lime and magnesia                        (H5
         Sulphate     of lime   ..                     '.  .    0-15
    The muriate of magnesia is the only deliquescent salt in sea-
water ; hence arises the property which sea-salt possesses, of li
quefying on exposure to air.         A small quantity of the muriate
of soda contained in sea-water is carried up when we distil it :
this is the cause of our fmding muriate of soda in vegetables at
a certain distance from the sea.
    In the chemical analysis of animal substances Berzelius has
made great improvements.            He has submitted the animal fluids,
and particularly the blood, to new analyses. The blood, he says,
is composed of two parts ; a liquid, the serum, and one which
is suspended, the coagulum.           In the animal ceconomy we ought
to distinguish three principal substances: a, fibrine; b, albumen;
c, gelatine.
    The serum, according to Berzelius, is a solution of a great
 quantity of albumen with a little fibrine.          Both are combined
with soda. It also contains some other saline substances.
    The coagulum is the colouring matter.            It differs from al
bumen in     its insolubility  in  serum, and by its colour.           The co
louring matter amounts to about one-third of the mass : the
 colour seems to be owing to iron, of which it contains about one-
third of its weight ; but this iron can be separated by combus
 tion only.
    This colour cannot        be produced artificially by uniting al
 bumen    with   subphosphate of iron, as Fourcroy and Vauquelin
 have asserted.      Nor it is possible to produce it by uniting iron
 with soda, as Parmentier and Deyeux have supposed.
    We may compare the colour of the blood to the other red
 colouring principles formed by animals, cochineal, kermes, the
 purple of the murex, &c.
    Four hundred grains of colouring matter, when incinerated,
 yielded :
                                                             Grains.
         Oxide of iron                                          30-
         S.ubphosphate of iron                                   7-5
          Phosphate of lime and a little magnesia         . .     6-
          Pure lime                                          >  20-
          Carbonic acid and loss                                16-5
                                                                           The

        Report   of the Progress of the   Sciences       in France.           29
The serum of the blood gave upon analysis :                Grains.
     Water                                                   90-5
     Albumen                                                 80-
     Muriate of potash, soda, and lactate of soda             4-
     Soda, phosphate of soda, and a. little animal matter     4-1
    In speaking of Ihe lactate of soda, Berzelius observes, that
 the existence of the lactic acid discovered by Scheele had been
erroneously doubted by FourCroy and Vauquelin.            The blood
contains no gelatine nor earthy phosphate.
    The fibrine, albumen, and colouring matter resemble each
other so closely, that they may be considered as modifications of
one and the same substance : they give earthy phosphates and
carbonates of lime solely when they are decomposed.
    The author thinks that the phosphate of iron does not exist
in the non-decomposed colouring matter, and that which we
obtain by incinerating it is a product of combustion.
    The colouring matter dried and exposed to the fire in a red-
hot crucible melts, swells, and burns with a clear flame; it leaves
 a pory charcoal,   which burns with difficulty.     In burning, a
 smell of ammonia is constantly exhaled, although it had been
 exposed several times to a strong fire.
    This extrication of ammonia from a, burning charcoal, and
 which has been long exposed to the fire, is according to him a
 remarkable phaenomenon : hence he concludes that this am
 monia is a new product.
    Margarine. — Chevreul has entered upon an extensive inquiry
into the combinations of fat bodies and the alkalis.        When we
 put, he observes, soap from hogs- lard and potash in a great
 mass of cold water, one part is dissolved and another is depo
 sited in the form of small shining pellets : he calls it mother of
pearl substance (matiere nacree) .
         This matter is formed of potash                 8-16
         Another fat substance                         91-84
    This last substance has the lustre of a pearl.        The author
 on this account calls it margarine, from the Greek word.            In
 order to obtain  it, he places the mother of pearl substance in
 water acidulated with muriatic acid. The acid seizes the potash,
 and the margarine swims above.         The latter      lighter than
                                                          is
 water, and melts at 56-560 centigrade.
    From all the facts recently published           by
                                                 Sir Humphry Davy
 and Berzelius, M. Delametherie draws the following conclusions                :
  1   . We can no longer    regard pure air, or oxygen as           has  it
 been called, as the principal agent of heat or of combustion,
 sinceit   isproved that this gas contains the least caloric of any
 other, and that the inflammable gas, the hydrogen as           called,
                                                               it   is
 contains the most caloric.    Besides,   it  proved
                                               is     that  in several
                                                                  com

  35      Report  of the Progress of the   Sciences  in France.
 combinations of oxygen, such as that with |he nitrous gats,;
 there is but a very small quantity of heat extricated.           The
 oxygen inapired has little influence in the production of heat i»
 animals and vegetables.                            .*
    2. Oxygen can no longer. be regarded as the generator of
 acids, hydrogen frequently performing its functions.
    a. The acids, such as the fluoric, oxy-muriatic, iodic, hydro-
 tulphuric, hydro-telluric, and the prussip, contain no oxygen.
    b. Substances which contain oxygen are not acids, but rather
 alkalis ; such as potash, soda, the earths, the metallic oxides,&c.
    c. The water, which upon this hypothesis contains 0'87 oxy
 gen, is not acid.
    3. The inflammable gas or hydrogen is to be found in all the
 combustible bodies.      This is admitted with respect to animal
 and vegetable substances.     It is also proved that it is found in
 the mineral combustible bodies, such as charcoal, the diamond,
sulphur, phosphorus, the metals.
    " The combustion of the metals, particularly that of zine,"      I
 observed in 17&1, in the Journal de Physique, "always sug;-
 gested to me that inflammable air was one of their principles.".
    Davy regards this opinion as highly probable, and has as
signed the quantities of hydrogen contained in several of these;
bodies.
    4. This inflammable air ought therefore to be regarded as
the principle which Stahl called phlogiston : this name ought tp
be continued.
    5. This inflammable air of all the acidifiable bodies,. the oils*
6ulphur, metals, is partly consumed when we burn these bodies,
and when they pass to the state of acids,
    6. The hydrogen     so burnt furnishes water,   which ought con
sequently to exist in the new compounds.
    7. Rerzelius and several chemists are of opinion that inflam
mable air, or hydrogen, contains a metallic oxide, which enters
into the composition of ammonium.
    8. They have the same opinion of azote : it contains a me
tallic oxide, which also enters into the formation of ammonium*
    9. I have observed, as well as Priestley, Senebier, Berger,
and others, that these gases, hydrogen and azote, exposed oyer
water, or agitated with water, are decomposed, and pass to the         '
state of pure air : the inflammable air loses its inflammability^
and the azote becomes absorbable by the nitrous gas.               On
the other hand, pure air exposed over water is also decom
posed : it is less absorbed by the nitrous gas than before.
    We have seen that in respiration there is less carbonic acid
produced than oxygen absorbed.           This made Ber.th.oUet and
Delaroche conclude that there had been a production of azote. .
                                                                10, It

            Report of          the   Progress   of the   Sciences in France.   31
     10.   It   is prdkible therefore            that there is only one kind of
air, viz. pure mr, which may                 be modified   into iuflamm&ble gas,
and into azotic gas.
   11. Caloric enters, as the principle of the nitric acid, into the
combination of the nitrous gas and oxygen.       It ought therefore
to be one of the principles of the other acids, the oxides, alkalis,
and earths.    This is the eausticum of Meyer.
   12. The new theory has therefore only the merit of having
confirmed the opinion of Jean Rey, and Hales, who had proved
that in combustion, and in the calcination of metals, there v.as
a combination of a portion of air which augmented the weight
of the burnt body.; a truth to which too little attention has since
been paid.    But it was wrong to reject the principle of inflam
mability which   exists in combustible bodies, as well as the ca
loric which is combined in the new products.           The new no
menclature, besides, is very imperfect* .
   13. It is probable, therefore, according to the present notions,
that an acid, the sulphuric for instance, is composed,
  a. Of a base, that of sulphur.
     I. A   portion of hydrogen.
     c.               oxygen.
     d.               'caloric combined.
   e.                  water.
   The same may be said of the oxides, earths, &c.
   There are some exceptions, however: the oxymuriatic, fluoric,
and iodic acids do not contain oxygen, but hydrogen.
   14. But what are the bases of sulphur,          phosphorus, &c. ?
This is a question in chemistry which remains to be solved.
   Chemists have wished to regard all these bases as simple ele
ments, or at least indecomposed, because art has not yet de
composed them.        But I have constantly maintained that, sup
posing most of these bases had not yet been decomposed, every
fact seems to prove that a great number of these bases, and per
haps the whole, are daily composed : they are produced like the
principles said to be immediate of vegetables and animals.
   a. The fluoric acid is found in the teeth : what is it that
furnishes       it,  be not
                      if  it    new product
                                        a                     ?
     b. Phosphorus      very abundant, in animal and vegetable sub
                               is
stances, in the form of phosphoric acid.       We may say the same
of sulphur, charcoal, &c. What               that furnishes them,
                                                    is   it                     if
they are not new products                ?
   c. Potash and soda are very abundant in vegetable and ani
mal substances, and in nitre pits', the earth of which has been
cleansed        by
               repeated washings from all saline substances. What
is   itthat furnishes them,      they are not new products
                                        if                               ?
   d. The earths, particularly magnesia, so abundant in the lixi-
                                                               viums

32       Report  of the Progress  of ihe Sciences in France.
viums from nitre pits, and among         animals, present the same
phaenomena.
   Now, potash, soda, and the earths are metallic oxides.
   e.   Metals themselves, such as iron and manganese, are very
abundant in vegetables and animals. What is it that furnishes
them, particularly manganese, if they are not new products ?
    15. The production of ammonium by exposing to the action
of the Voltaic pile mercury with ammonia, may throw some
light on the new production of these bases.          The azotic and
hydrogen gases seem to be the principal bases of ammonia.
These two gases therefore concur, according to Berzelius, in the
formation of a metallic substance, ammonium.
    Caloric, the luminous fluid, and the Galvanic fluid, may also
concur not only in the formation of ammonium, but of the other
metals, the alkalis, earths, sulphur, phosphorus, carbon, &c.
    16. All these fluids themselves are probably formed of one
sole primitive matter.     This was the opinion of the philosophers
of antiquity, and it has been sanctioned by Newton, according
to Sir H. Davy. This primitive matter is perhaps the nebulous
matter, or akusch. It is probable that chemistry will decompose
some    of these bases.
    17. The Galvanic action has the greatest influence in the
principal phaenomena of nature : such as fermentation ; the in
flammation of pyrites, the pyrophori, and the various chemical
combinations,     compositions,   and decompositions;    the various
phaenomena of the animal and vegetable oeconomy ; heat, irrita
bility, excitability, sensibility; the electrical state of the ter
restrial globe, &c.
    1 8. Electricity and Galvanism therefore contributing to che
mical combinations, their action is continual and never inter
rupted.     The electro-chemical theory of Berzelius merits the
whole attention of scientific men.
    19. It is no more demonstrated that water is composed of
hydrogen and oxygen, as Cavendish says, than that it may be
converted into earth as maintained by Newton.
    20. The action of the molecules of solid bodies depends
rather on their figure than their mass.
    M. Delametherie thus concludes his Sketch of the Progress of
the Sciences, of which the above is an extract :
    " Yet a little while, and these truths will be recognised like
those to which I have already alluded ; viz. the great quantity
of caloric in the inflammable gas, the small quantity of caloric
in pure air, the insufficiency of oxygen for producing the acids,
the imperfection of the new chemical and mineralogical no
menclatures, the insufficiency of the new chemical theories, and
 the insufficiency of crystallography for making us acquainted
with minerals."                                             IX. Me

                                                                                      /
                                      {     33   ]
      IX. Memoir     upon Palladium          and Rhodium.           By M. Vait-
                                      QUELIN*.
     After         detailing the history of the discovery of palladium and
    rhodium,        M. Vauquelin proceeds :
          §   I.   The    following 1s Dr. Wollaston-s process for sepa
       rating   these  two    metals from the solution of platina : he dis
      solves in the nitro-muriatic acid two ounces and a half of pla
       tina ore, he precipitates        the platina by sal ammoniac from a
      portion of this solution, corresponding to 1000 grains of ore ;
      he plunges      in the mother waters and the washings of the salt
      of platina, united, lamina of zinc for precipitating the metals
      in question.        But as there is in these mother waters, copper,
      and sometimes lead, which are precipitated by the zinc at the
      same time with the rhodium and palladium, M. Wollaston takes
      them up by means of aqua fortis, which does not attack the
     other metals.
          He dissolves the residue in the nitro-muriatic acid, precipi
      tates once more by sal ammoniac the little platina which is in
    it,   adds to the solution, when thus precipitated,              20 grains of
      sea-salt, evaporating         to dryness, and washes the residue with
    ' alcohol until the latter comes off colourless.
                                                             By these means he
4     dissolves    the  triple salt  of palladium,   and leaves that of rhodium.
          Although M. Wollaston only operated upon 1000 grains of
      platina ore, and had at his disposal, of each of the metals,
      only six or seven grains at most, he nevertheless ascertained
      their chief properties ;       which does infmite honour to his saga
      city,  for
               it    seemed     almost   incredible.
          For my part,I        confess that although I     employed about sixty
      marcs (fifteen kilogrammes) of platina ore,         I   experienced many
     difficulties in separating exactly the palladium and rhodium
      from the platina and the other metals which are in this ore,
     and particularly in obtaining them very pure.
      §      II. The first condition favourable to the solution of pla
     tina in     the ore., and its precipitation, relates to the proportion of
      the acids which ought to compose the solvent              :that which ap
     peared to be the best       is     one part of nitric acid to two of mu
     riatic acid: this aqua regia so composed, independently                   of
     its dissolving a        greater quantity of platina, gives        saving in
                                                                        a
     price of nearly cent, per cent., an object which ought not to be
     overlooked when large quantities of platina are to be dissolved.
          The second condition refers to the concentration of the acids           :
     the quantity of nitro-muriatic acid necessary for dissolving the
     platina, does not decrease merely in the ratio of its concentra-
                    * Armaks   de   Chimie, tome lxxxviii. p.   167".
    Vol. 44. No. 195.     July      1814.                C                  tion,

34            Memoir upon Palladium and Rhodium.
tion, but in a much larger ratio.        Thus, I suppose that in        a
volume of aqua regia represented      , by two,   there is enough of
 acid for dissolving a given quantity of platina : this quantity of
 acid reduced to half its volume, for instance, will then be much
more than sufficient for producing the same effect.
    Thus an aqua regia composed of two parts of muriatic acid
 at 22°, and one part of nitric acid at 34°, and which shall mark
 about 25° in the areometer, will only dissolve about one-eighth
of its weight of platina: whereas the aqua regia composed of
 the same proportions of muriatic acid at 22°, and nitric acid at
44°, and which shall mark 28° and a half in the areometer, will
dissolve one-fourth of its weight of platina.          It will therefore
 require one half less of this last to dissolve the same quantity of
platina ; now one part of this acid costs less than two of the
other.    There is also this advantage, that the solution takes
place much more speedily, and almost without the assistance of
any other heat than that which is nalurally developed during
the operation.
    We may easily conceive the reason for what is above set
forth, when I observe that nitro-muriatic acid at 18° or 20"
 only will not attack crude platina at all, and will attack it but
very slowly even at a boiling heat : now at this temperature a
great part of the acid will be volatilized previous to acting upon
the platina.     This is the reason why the acid which we collect
during   the  solution  of the platina, even when reduced to the
consistence of a thick syrup, does not attack the platina again :
this is also the reason why we may with weak aqua regia dis
solve gold mixed with platina, without the latter being attacked
at all.
    The third condition has for its object the state in which the
solution of platina ought to be put, in order to be more com
pletely precipitated by sal Ammonia.          It must be sufficiently
reduced by evaporation, in order to congeal into a crystalline
mass upon cooling ; for, if there remains too great a quantity
pf acid, it retains much more triple salt in solution after mu
riate of ammonia bus been added.         In fact, if in a similar solu
tion which precipitates no more by sal ammoniac, we put any
alkali in order to saturate a part of the superabundant acid
which it contains, we see a new quantity of salt precipitated :
we know also that the ammoniacal muriate of platina is dissolved
more . abundantly in water sharpened with nitro-muriatic acid,
than in pure water.      1 ascertained this fact, by putting into the
liquors from which the ammoniacal muriate of platina had been
separated, some pieces of iron, in order to precipitate the metals
which exist in the ore of platina. The first, effect produced was
the precipitation of a considerable quantity of triple salt of pla
                                                                    tina

                    Memoir upon Palladium and Rhodium.                                 35
tina almost pure ; but I was puzzled for a few minutes as to
the true cause of this precipitation, by the sulphate of iron at
the minimum producing the same effect with the metallic iron.
    This suggested the idea, that in the solution of platina the
metal might be in two states of oxidation, and that at the mini
mum was the only one precipitated by the sal ammoniac, while
the other remaining in solution was precipitated in its turn by
giving to the iron a portion of its oxygen.            In order to verify
this conjecture, I introduced into a vessel in which I had diluted
yellow salt of platina with water, oxy-muriatic acid gas, with
the intention of hyper-oxygenating this salt, if it was possible.
    The solution took place speedily with a development of heat
and change of colour, the liquid becoming red.              A considerable
quantity    of  gas  was  extricated,  which   I  found  to  be azotic gas.
 But when I put iron into this solution, no salt was precipitated
from     it,but metallic platina the sulphate of iron produced no
                                            ;
effect on      it
                ;whereas the muriate of ammonia, and ammonia                           it
self, precipitated from            great quantity of yellow salt.
                                   it   a
    Thus the oxy-muriatic acid did not alter the state of oxida
 tion of the platina in its triple salt, but decomposed the am
 monia from         it,
                     and reduced       to the state of simple muriate
                                            it                                          :
it  will follow that the sulphate of iron has, like the metallic iron
 and the alkalis, the property of saturating                portion of the
                                                                    a
 acidity retained         by
                           the salt of platina in solution.        The sul
 phate   of  iron  being decomposed          the     by
                                                 muriatic   acid,      pos   it   is
 sible that the sulphuric acid, set free, has not under these cir
 cumstances the same solvent powers with the muriatic acid, over
 the salt of platina.
    Lastly, the fourth condition for pbtaining the salt of platina
 pure, consists in diluting in        proper quantity of water the so
                                            a
 lution   of  this  metal, without which         will be very difficult to
                                                          it
 wash the precipitate          : will always remain mixed with iron,
                                   it
 and other metals which exist in the same solution. .                 better
                                                                         It   is
 that greater quantity of salt of platina should remain in solu
         a
 tion, than that the matter precipitated should be mixed with
 foreign substances, because we always recover the platina in our
 ulterior operations.       Ten parts of water to one of the highly
 concentrated solution, appear to me to be the proportion which
 succeeds best, taking care to employ, in order to precipitate,
a solution of sal ammonia saturated cold.
      The ammomacal muriate of platina                  not pure, except
                                                               is
 when    it    of
               is    acitron-yellow colour, when          does not become
                                                                it
 brown upon drying, and when                    it
                                         pulverizes easily.
     §  III. Method       ofseparating the Palladium from the Rho
 dium and other metallic Salts, which are united in the same
 solution. — After having precipitated the platina                      by
                                                                 sal ammo-
                                                C   2                   niac

36             Memoir upon Palladium and Rhodium.
niac from its nitro-muriatic solution, I put into the mother --
waters and the washings, united together, pieces of iron, in order
to precipitate the various metals which accompany the platina
in its ore.
    I treated the black precipitate which resulted from it by the
nitric and muriatic acids, employed in succession cold.        When
these two acids ceased to act, I washed the residue and dried it.
During this operation there were emitted various very acrid
white vapours, which I ascertained, upon heating a portion of
this residue in a retort, to be sub-muriate of mercury mixed
with muriate of copper : the sublimate also contained globules
of mercury, and a black substance which I took for osmium
from its smell.
    The nitric acid which had been used in washing the precipi
tate just mentioned, contained abundance of iron, copper, and
a small quantity of palladium, although the operation had been
performed in the cold way.
    The muriatic acid employed after the nitric acid still con
tained abundance of iron, copper, palladium, and even platina
and rhodium.       This proves that a part of these three last me
tals is precipitated in the state of oxide by the iron, otherwise
the muriatic acid would not have dissolved them: it seems to
prove also that these metals in being precipitated combine with
the iron and the copper, and prevent them from being attacked"
by the nitric acid even when employed in large quantities.
    I afterwards treated this precipitate by the nitro-muriatic acid
 compounded with the common acids used in commerce.
    Part of the matter only was dissolved, and there remained a
great quantity, over which the acid seemed to have no action,
although I had employed at least twelve parts.
    Presuming that this acid was too weak to act with efficacy on
 the substance in question, I made a highly concentrated nifro-
muriatic acid, of which I applied- six parts to one of this residue.
    On this occasion, the action was violent, and the solution was-
very abundant even in the cold way, which was announced by a
brisk effervescence, a development of abundanceof nitrousvapours,
 an elevation of temperature, and the colouring of the liquor.    All
 the   matter  however   was not yet  dissolved; there  remaining at
 least one-sixth, although the mixture had     been long heated.
    Lastly, 1 once more poured upon this substante four parts of
 the same nitro-muriatic acid: there was still a solution, but in
 less abundance than in the foregoing operation, the proportion
being considered : I shall leave this residue for the present, but
 shall return  to it ere long.
    Although the substance treated as above three times with
 nitro-muriatic acid had been previously subjected to the suc
                                                              cessive

                Memoir upon Palladium and Rhodium.                 37
pessive action of great quantities of nitric and muriatic acids,
each of the above three solutions in the nitro-muriatic acid still
contained copper and iron; which proves that these metals in
precipitating are united to the platina, and to the other metals
mixed with it ; and that it is by this union that they are pro
tected from the aetion of the simple acids, and even from the
first portions of nitro-muriatic acid.
    I had already observed these phaenomena in a previous ope
ration; but as I had calcined the precipitate pretty strongly in
order to agglutinate its parts, I thought that this had operated
between the metals a commencement of union, which had formed
an obstacle to the solution of the iron and copper.           But the
jibove result announces that this combination takes place at the
moment of precipitation.       One thing not less remarkable is the
great quantity of iron which is precipitated in the state of oxide,
with a portion of platina, palladium, and rhodium, probably in
the same state.
    The three solutions of the precipitate were joined, and eva
porated into a syrupy consistence, in order to drive off the ex
cess of acid: afterwards the liquor, sufficiently diluted with water,
was precipitated by the muriate of ammonia, when a salt of
platina of a pure yellow colour was obtained.
    The liquor once more evaporated, almost to dryness, and the
residue taken up by water, left a salt of a red colour, not very
soluble in water, and which was still mostly formed of platina.
We shall account for the colour of this salt by and by.
    The following is the process which I adopt for separating the
 palladium from the rhodium, and (he latter from the iron and
copper with which it is always mixed.
    1 dilute with water the above liquor deprived of the greater
part of the platina: I add muriatic acid when there is not
enough : afterwards I gradually pour in ammonia, so as not to
saturate entirely the excess of acid ; I shake it ; and instantly a
great quantity of salt makes its appearance in the form of fine
sparkling needles, and of a beautiful red cofcur.
    I allow it to deposit : I try a -portion of the clear liquor with
 some drops of ammonia : if it still yields salt as it did at first,
 I add fresh quantities of this alkali until it ceases to furnish
 any.
    Then I allow the salt to deposit ; I decant the liquor, and
 wash the precipitate, first with cold water and afterwards with
 hot water, which is not injurious, for it is of very difficult so
          '
 lution.    If by accident I have exceeded the proper degree of
precipitation, and there are deposited with the red salt some
 particles of iron or of rhodium, it may be easily cleared of it by
 digesting it a few minutes in water slightly acidified with mu-
                               C 3                              riatic

38            .Memoir upon Palladium and Rhodium.
riatic acid : this salt is an ammoniacal muriate of palladium at
the minimum of acid, the properties of which will be presently
explained : in order to obtain the metal, it is sufficient to make
it r,ed hot.
    Now, in order to obtain the rhodium, I evaporate sufficiently
the liquors from which the palladium has been separated, in
order that they may crystallize in a mass upon cooling : I allow the
water to drain off the crystals, which are sometimes of two forms
and two colours ; some are in hexahedral laminae, and of a fine
ruby red ; and the others less numerous, in square prisms of a
yellowish green, which are the ammoniacal muriate of pallaT-
dium. The water which comes from these crystals is also of a
greenish-yellow colour, owing to the copper and the iron.
    The crystals being drained, I pound them in a glass or porce
lain mortar, and wash them with alcohol at 3(5°, which I leave
on them for four-and-twenty hours, in a close flask, frequently
shaking them.       When the colour of the alcohol (a greenish
yellow) ceases to heighten, it is decanted off, and fresh quan
tities are applied until the last portions are no longer coloured,
or at least until they no longer present to the re-agents traces
of copper or iron,
    If some portions of palladium still continue with the rhodium,
they will be dissolved in the last washings with the alcohol, and
 then the latter  will give by spontaneous evaporation crystals in
 long square prisms of a greenish-yellow colour.        Among these
 sometimes we may also remark some very minute crystals of a
 ruby red, which are ammoniacal muriate of rhodium dissolved
 by alcohol.     The salt of rhodium is afterwards dried in the air :
 it is of a beautiful red ; but as it might still contain some small
 portions of triple salt of platina, it may be dissolved in a small
 quantity of water sharpened with a little muriatic acid.        The
 salt of platina, if there be any, will remain at the bottom of the
 liquor, and it may be separated by decantation or nitration. In
 order to procure the metallic rhodium, it is then sufficient to
 evaporate to dryndfe the solution of its triple salt, and to make
 it red hot in an eartherr crucible : it yields a white metal break
 ing into a spongy mass, the properties of which will presenl ly
 be shown.
     The above process, which is simpler and more precise than
  Wollaston's, is founded, as we see, 1st, On the insolubility of
 the ammoniacal muriate of palladium, even in water slightly
 acid.    2dly, On the solubility in alcohol of the muriates of
  copper and iron, and the insolubility of the ammoniacal muriate
 of rhodium in the same agent.
     § IV. Properties of the neutral ammotiiacal Muriate of Pal
  ladium, or Sulmuriate of Palladium. — This salt is of a very
                                                            agreeable

                     Memoir upon Palladium and Rhodium.                   39
    agreeable' red colour.      In this respect it deserves the name of
    rhodium rather than palladium.           When we examine this salt
    in the mass, it is formed of flexible brilliant and slender needles ;
    when taken in the mass, they are spongy and soft to the touch.
        Reduction.    Twenty grammes of this salt dry, and made red
    hot in a forge in an earthen crucible, furnished eight grammes
    or 40 per cent, of metal of a dead silver white, the particles of
    which were united, but incompletely fused. This metal was
    perfectly ductile and malleable.
        In order to observe more closely what passes during the de
    composition by fire of this salt of palladium, I heated some by the
    blow-pipe, and I saw that it fuses, diminishes greatly in volume,
    and sends out vapours of muriate of ammonia and oxy-muriatic
     acid.    It is the fusion and diminution in volume of this salt
    when heated, which, bringing more closely together the particles
    of the metal, render it susceptible of being laminated.
        Solubility.   The red salt of palladium is scarcely soluble in
    water ; it merely communicates to it after a long contact a
    slight yellow tinge.     It is easily dissolved in weak muriatic acid
     cold ; but at a boiling heat it dissolves completely : the solution
    is of a yellowish brown.       ,
        The excess of muriatic acid in this solution being saturated
    with ammonia, the salt is precipitated with its red colour and
     all its other properties : if we add an excess of alkali, the liquor
     assumes a weak yellow colour.                               -
       If,instead of ammonia, potash be employed to saturate the
    excess of muriatic acid, the salt     precipitated in yellow flakes
                                         is                                 ;
    hut     by
           adding ammonia afterwards they become still more yellow
                                                                                    '
                                                                            ;
    which proves- that they are combined once more with the am-
    monia in the state of    triple salt.
'
                             a
      §  V. Some Properties of Palladium. — This metal has some
    resemblance to platina, in its colour, malleability, hardness and
    fusibility.
      The fire of our furnaces   does not fuse      it
                                                   completely     could
                                                                   :I
    fuse    but
            it   imperfectly on   piece
                                  a     of lighted charcoal acted upon
        a jet of oxygen gas *.
     I byhave remarked that, when        once fused,
                                        it is           we continue to
                                                              if
    heat     in the same way,
            it                   boils and burns away in very brilliant
                                 it
    sparks.      A portion of the metal which has escaped from the
    combustion       condensed on the surface of the piece of coal, in
                     is
    the form of very small grains.
       Platina when fused in the same manner does not burn like
    palladium    ; which proves that the latter      more volatile and
                                                         is
      *   M. Chenevix says that palladium melts   in a common furnace:    it   is
     probable, however, that what he subjected to this proof was not perfectly
     pure.
                                       C  4                              more

40           Memoir upon Palladium and Rhodium.
more combustible.      I found the specific gravity of the laminated
palladium to be twelve and a very small fraction.
    § VI. Solution of Palladium by the nitro-murialic Acid.
                                                                   —
One gramme of palladium put into six grammes of nitro-muri-
atic acid composed of equal parts was speedily attacked, even
in the cold way, which was announced by the reddish-brown
colour assumed by the liquor. At first, no nitrous gas was t!e^
Teloped ; but, by means of heat, plenty came over ; which indi
cates that palladium requires a great quantity of oxygen for its
solution.
    The solutioji of palladium is of a reddish brown, which is
deeper in proportion to the quantity of acid which it contains ;
for, in proportion as the latter evaporates, the colour diminishes,
and the solution gives a salt of a fawn colour almost insoluble, and
which merely makes the water yellow ; but this - olution becomes
reddish brown on the addition of some drops of muriatic acid.
    The neutral muriate of palladium is not very soluble in water;
it is dissolved, on the contrary, abundantly when the water is
sharpened with a little muriatic acid.      This solution is not re
gularly crystallized.
    The muriate of ammonia in liquor, put into the acid solution
of palladium, forms no precipitate in it ; but if the liquors are
sufficiently thick, there is immediately formed a great quantity
of crystals in needles of a greenish-yellow colour and very sin
gular.    When the crystallization takes place slowly, this salt
presents the form of quadrilateral prisms or elongated hexa
gons: these are the ammoniacal muriate of palladium.             If to
 the solution of this triple salt we add  some  drops  of ammonia   in
 order to saturate the excess of acid, a very brilliant crystalline
 red precipitate is formed, which is the ammoniacal submuriate of
palladium above alluded to.
    The solution of potash turns the colour of the muriate of
palladium brown, and separates from it red and brilliant flakes,
as if they were formed of laminae : the liquor remains coloured,
 notwithstanding the excess of alkali ; but heat affects the pre
 cipitation of the oxide of palladium, and the liquor loses its co
 lour entirely: the alkaline carbonates produce the same effect.
    The infusion of gall-nuts produces no change in the solution
 of palladium ; the addition of some drops of ammonia to this
 mixture determines a greenish precipitate: the liquor continues
 of a yellow colour ; which announces an action of ammonia on
 this combination.      The muriate of tin at the Minimum forms
 in the solution of palladium a black ptecipitate.         The green
 sulphate of iron precipitates it in the metallic  state.
    The oxide of palladium, on being separated from the acid by
 means of potash, retains much water, at least it occupies a
                                                                great

             Memoir upon -Palladium and Rhodium.                41
great deal of room : in this state it is of a reddish-brown co
lour : on drying it loses its volume, and takes on a very brilliant
black colour.
   The muriate of palladium does not form, therefore, triple salt '
with potash like the muriate of platina. The oxide of palla
dium, when well washed and dried as well as possible by a gentle
heat, loses 20 per cent, and becomes metallic : it contains there
fore abundance of oxygen.
   § VII. Sulphuraiion of Palladium. — One hundred parts of
the triple red salt of palladium, when heated with as much sul
phur, in a well covered crucible, furnished 52 parts of a blueish
white sulphuret very hard, and presenting brilliant laminae in its
fracture.
   Being aware, from anterior experiments, that 100 parts of this
triple salt contain from 40 to 42 of metal, it was easy to know
the quantity of sulphur which is combined with it in the above
operation.
   In fact, if 42 parts of metal (the result which I regard as the
most probable) absorb ten of sulphur, it is evident that 100 parts
of palladium will absorb about twenty-four in order to be sul
phuretted completely.
   The sulphuret of palladium, when -put into a cupel, is perfectly
fused at the heat at which assays of silver are made : when a
certain quantity of sulphur was dissipated, the metal was fixed,
increased in volume, and became rough on the surfece.         When
all the sulphur was separated, the palladium was of a silver
white ; it was malleable under the hammer, and might afterwards
pass through the rolling-press without being torn.
    Sometimes the palladium obtained by the roasting of its
sulphuret, presents at its surface spots of a blueish-green colour,
which appear to be owing to a commencement of oxidation ; for
they disappear in the muriatic acid, and the latter becomes of
a reddish colour.   The same thing happens to        it,when, by de
composing its triple salt,a    sufficient degree of heat   not given
                                                           is
to set the oxygen entirely free. The platina    is   not even united
 to the sulphur."
  §   VIII. Rhodium. Examination         of    the ammoniacal   Mu
riate of  Rhodium. — After having separated the palladium, and
evaporated the liquor containing the muriate of rhodium, in
order to obtain this crystallized salt, the mother-water was de
canted, the crystals drained, and washed several times with al
cohol as above described.      This liquid dissolves the green mat
ter which exists among the crystals, and these last assume a
lively ruby-red colour. This salt, in order to ble redissolved, re
quires mnch more water than before, because the alcohol has
                                                               taken

    -42                      Memoir upon Palladium and Rhodium.
    taken from it an excess                       of acid favourable                 to its solution and
    crystallization.
       The solution of the muriate of rhodium separated from the
    copper and from the iron, and from the traces of palladium
    which might still exist in         forms with ammonia
                                                       it,        precipi                      a
    tate of     fawn colour and nearly insoluble, which
                   a                                           an ammo                   is
    niacal submuriate of rhodium, as evinced           the vapours of sal    by
    ammonia which        gives on being heated *.
                                   it                    The liquor from
    which this sub muriate has been separated preserves deep fawn                          a
    colour, notwithstanding the excess of ammonia; but upon heat
    ing      even without ebullition,-
              it                             furnishes    new quantity of
                                                             it                      a
    flaky precipitate of     clearer yellow than the first.
                                         a                     Lastly, the
    liquor evaporated to dryness, and its residue taken up with wa
    ter, still left  small quantity of matter similar to the foregoing.
                              a
    All these precipitates were ammoniacal submuriate of rhodium                                               ;
    which proves that this salt         little soluble in water, and that
                                                      is
                                                      a
    an excess of ammonia seems to favour this solubility.
       Solubility. —The ammoniacal muriate of rhodium            dissolved                     is
    very easily in cold water its solution        ;of purple red colour,
                                                                       is        a
    nearly like that of cochineal or recent strawberry juice: but this
    colour becomes brown upon the application of heat, and even
    spontaneously after some time.
       This salt     in grains, crystalline, and very brilliant:
                              is                                          not                       it   is
    soft to the touch like the ammoniacal submuriate of palladium.
      §   IX. Decomposition           the ammoniacal Muriate of Rho<-
                                                  of
    dium        Potash. — Two grammes of this salt dissolved in water,
                   by
    having been mixed with           solution of potash, produced
                                                  a                       red                            a
    precipitate, and emitted ammonia.           In   few minutes the quan
                                                                        a
    tity of precipitate was diminished, and the supernatant liquor
    assumed       greenish-yellow colour.
                        a                      By the aid of heat, the pre
    cipitate  which     have   mentioned
                                   I        was  speedily dissolved, the                                      li
    quor became deeper          colour, and plenty of ammonia was given
                                             in
    off there was an excess of potash in the liquor.
          :
       The solution of muriate of rhodium in potash exposed to the
    air for some days produced yellow crystals           this     probably a     :        is
    triple  salt of  muriate   of  rhodium    at the  minimum    of acid, and
    muriate    of  potash dissolved                      by
                                            an excess of alkali   at least                 :                   it
<   seems to be proved          this; viz. that
                                             by       the excess of potash  by
    saturated                by
                    the muriatic acid, a yellowish white precipitate in
    soluble in water        formed: this
                                       is        neutral muriate of potash
                                                                  is
    and rhodium.
          §X. Reduction        the ammoniacal Muriate
                                             of                 Rhodium. —               of
         Tin-s name suits    better, as this salt furnishes 50 per cent, of metal
      *                                 it
     on the application of heat, whereas before having been precipitated by
     ammonia     gives only. 28.
                        it
                                                                                                     Fifteen

                         /
                   fllemoir upon Palladium and Rhodium.                           43
Fifteen grammes of this salt made red hot in an earthen cruci
ble furnished four grammes and two-tenths of white metal not
fused, but all the parts of which were agglutinated and formed
only one mass.      In another experiment ten grammes of the same
salt gave three weak grammes of metal : from these results it is
evident that this salt contains between 28 and 29 per cent, of
metal.
   Being anxious to know if this metal could be united with sul
phur, and, in this case, how much it required to pass to the state
of a complete sulphuret, I mixed four grammes of the above salt
with as much sulphur, and I heated this mixture for some mi
nutes in a furnace.     1 obtained a well fused metal of a blueish-
white colour, weighing one gramme yyyV-          1 his result proves
that the rhodium is combined with the sulphur ; without which
it would not haw melted, and would have only yielded, accord
ing to the proportion above established, one gramme                of
metal ;   it had therefore acquired TWo     of sulphur,  which  is in
the ratio of 26 to       of metal.
                              -g-
    The sulphuret of rhodium, when subjected to a strong heat
 in contact with the air, exhales sulphurous acid, and exhibits
 considerable arborisations.     After this operation,         white,
                                                                    it   is
 spongy,   and brittle, and does  not weigh  more  than one  gramme
   0                                                   1
   0
To~o
 o»
   Fusibility.— Rhodium of all the known metals seems to be
the most infusible            fact, one semigramme of this metal,
                              ;     in
coming    from   its submuriate,      decomposed at        a   middling heat,
and which had on that account              blackish colour, heated for
                                                  a                                a
long time on a piece of charcoal upon which stream of oxygen
                                                           a
gas played, was not melted           its parts were merely agglutinated
                                              :
into a single mass, which was of a silvery-white colour.                      re
                                                                              I
peated    this  operation    several   times   on   still  smaller   quantities,
without fusing them completely.             This metal, although fragile,
is therefore more difficult     to fuse  than    the pure platina and pal
ladium, which melt very speedily             a fire kept up by oxygen gas.
                                                  in
 Hence   it was impossible to determine the specific gravity of this
 metal.
    We may say therefore that pure rhodium                     is   metal of
                                                                    a              a
white colour, very    little  different   from    that    of palladium, which
is brittle, and more difficult to fuse than all the other metals.
     §XI. Solubility         Rhodium in thi Acids. — One gramme of
                                    of
 rhodium in fine powder subjected to the action of eight grammes
of nitro-muriatic acid, in equal parts, was not sensibly attacked,
 and scarcely was the acid coloured.                then treated
                                                       I                with
                                                                        it         a
very strong acid, but             was not dissolved.
                                         it                    Since rhodium
 when    it   is
               pure      absolutely insoluble in the acids, we must
                             is
guppose that        italloyed in the ore of platina with other metals,
                         is
                                                                              which

                                                                       I
44      On the Influence      of the   Pressure   of the Atmosphere
which favour its solution when we treat the crude platina with
the nitro-muriatic acid.    For the same reason, it was impossible
to study the properties of the simple salts of this metal.
   I shall give in a subsequent memoir the method of separating
the osmium and iridium from the foreign bodies which form
the insoluble residue of the ore of platina, and I shall explain
in the same way the properties which these two metals shall ex
hibit on examination.
X. On   the Influence    of the Pressure of the Atmosphere        on the
         Crystallization     of Salts. By Gay Lussac*.
Several      chemists have laid it down as a principle, that we in
crease the solvent   power of water -by diminishing atmospherical
pressure.    This result is not however well ascertained ; for we
are acquainted with only one substance, the sulphate of soda,
the aqueous solution of which does not crystallize in vacuo,
although it gives abundance of crystals in the open air ; and be
sides, the circumstances under which this phaenomenon takes
place have not been accurately noted.         I propose therefore to
examine,     1. The causes which concur in the crystallization of
the sulphate of soda when we vary the pressure of the atmo
sphere; and, 2. What other substances which are soluble in
water, act in the same manner.
   In order to make the experiments which I am about -to de
scribe, a common barometrical tube may be used, into which
the saline solutions are to be introduced when warm : this may
be filled about three-fourths, and in order to form a vacuum, the
solution must be boiled.      When it is presumed that the vapour
has completely displaced the air, the open end of the tube must
be hermetically sealed, by exposing it to the blow-pipe, or by
dipping it in melted sealing'-wax.    The vacuum obtained in this
way may be regarded as perfect nearly to the degree of the
elastic force of the vapour of the saline solution.
   The temperature of the air being from 12° to 18°, I in
closed a solution of sulphate of soda at the boiling temperature,
in a small tube as above described.       After cooling, no erystal
was formed, although it was    shaken  frequently.    Having broken
the extremity of the point of the tube to give     access to the air,
the liquid instantly became solid, with a very perceptible dis
engagement of heat.      It happens sometimes, however, that the
entrance of the air does not determine the crystallization ; but
if We then introduce a small crystal into the solution, or if we
shake
        it,
         it    begins to crystallize immediately.      This circum-
           *   tMemoires d'Arcuei!,   tome iii. October 1813.
                                                                  stance

                       on the^Cryslallization  of Salts.             45
    stance  proves that the solvent power of water does not depend
    solely on   atmospherical pressure.
        I poured mercury into five barometrical tubes to within three
    finger breadths of the top, taking care to remove all the small
    particles which stuck upon the sides, and I filled them up with
    a boiling and saturated solution of sulphate of soda: having
    instantly inverted them over a bath of mercury, the soiutiou
    crystallized in each tube in proportion     as it rose in its upper
    part.
        I repeated this experiment upon five other tubes in which
   mercury had been boiled, but the solution did not crystallize in
   any.     I introduced a small bubble of air occupying about the
   two hundredth part of the tube, and by shaking, or frequently
   even without this precaution, crystallization took place promptly.
   The same effect may be produced by using hydrogen^, carbonic
   acid or. nitrous gas instead of air.     It would seem therefore that
   a very small quantity of any gas is sufficient to determine cry
   stallization.
       I introduced    a concentrated and boiling solution of sulphate
  of   soda    into five barometrical tubes in which mercury had been
  boiled.       Twenty-four hours afterwards no crystals were ob
  served    in any tube, although they had been shaken considerably
 in the interval.         Nevertheless, after some violent concussions
 produced by suddenly dipping the tubes in the mercurial bath,
 I succeeded in crystallizing the salt in three of them, in a few
 minutes.         It was always in the upper part of the tube, where
 the shaking had collected some very small air-bells, that cry
 stallization commenced.           The solution in the two other tubes
 not having undergone any change under the same circumstances,
 I operated the crystallization speedily by introducing into one a
 crystal of sulphate of soda, and into the other an air-bell.          I
 ought to observe that I never succeeded in crystallizing the solu
 tion by shaking it in a small apparatus ; but I ascribe this
failure to my not being able to produce ati agitation' so violent
 as in the barometrical         tubes.  I did not succeed any better on
vibrating the tubes by means of the bow of a violin, after having
secured one of their extremities in a vice.                             *
      It seems from these experiments, that simple shaking does not
produce crystallization unless there is air in the apparatus ; but
on the one hand I produced it by shaking barometrical tubes
freed from air with the greatest care; and on the other hand,
this precaution was almost always insufficient for the small ap
paratus, in which I found, on opening them under water, a volume
of air sometimes amounting to one-thirtieth of the empty space
in the tube. Besides, is it not very remarkable that the steam
®f water which is developed in the apparatus,. and the tension of
                                                                   which

46   .    On the Influence   of the Pressure of ihe   Atmosphere
 which is frequently equal to two centimetres of mercury, does
 not produce any effect, while a very small air-boll favours cry
stallization so powerfully ?      In short, it is not less evident al
 ready, that the solvent power of water does not increase as the
pressure of the atmosphere diminishes ; since a very small quan
 tity of any gas produces crystallization : but I am about to
 show that it is entirely independent of it.
    If we introduce a crystal of sulphate of soda into a hyper-
saturated solution contained in a barometrical tube, crystalliza
 tion generally commences, instantly extending speedily through
 the whole mass, and the solution is afterwards at the same de
 gree of saturation which it would have acquired in the air at
 the same temperature.      Now I am convinced that crystals of a
 salt introduced into its solution, well saturated at a given tem
 perature, lower it but infinitely little under its true point of sa
 turation : consequently it is clear beyond dispute, that the sol
 vent power of water does not depend on the pressure of the at
 mosphere.      We may add, that if we put into a tube a little salt
 with its boiling and saturated solution, and afterwards make a
 vacuum as described, a perceptible quantity of salt will not be
 dissolved on applying heat.           >
    We shall see presently that the crystallization of a solution of
sulphate of soda may be prevented by allowing the latter to
 cool in vacuo ; but we obtain the same result also by allowing
it to cool, exposed to atmospherical pressure, provided that we
 cover the surface with a little spirits of turpentine.        This me
 thod, which is also very efficacious for retarding the freezing of
water, is very easily executed.     Take a glass tube from one to
two centimetres in diameter, closed at one end : pour in a boil
ing and saturated solution of sulphate of soda, and cover it in
stantly with spirit of turpentine.      The solution will crystallize,
but rarely by cooling   and even  by agitation : a current of electric
fluid, or two platina wires communicating         with the poles of a
pile, will produce no effect.    But a crystal or a glass ring drop
ped into      it,
               will immediately bring on crystallization an iron
                                                            :
ring   will do the same, but not so well as a glass one.             *
  If     bydiminishing the pressure of the atmosphere the solvent
power of water was increased,     itwould follow that, by augment
ing the pressure at the surface of a saturated solution of sul
phate of soda, the precipitation of    a part of the salt would be de
termined      but this
              ;        is not the case.    I   took   a  bent tube, the
large   branch  of which was   two  metres   long
                                                ;    and   having intro
duced into the shortest     solution of sulphate of soda, saturated
                             a
at the temperature of the air,   I  loaded it   with a column of mer
cury two metres high, without any crystals being deposited even
after several days.                                 .  .
                                                                   As

                  on the   Crystallization of Salts.                  47
   As it cannot be doubted that the air acts in some manner or
ether upon the crystallization of the sulphate of soda, since the
latter takes place almost constantly in the open air, whereas in
vacuo it takes place under certain circumstances only ; I have
supposed, in order to account for this phaenomenon, that water
having the property of dissolving air, and having lost that which
it held in solution by the heat which I had employed to dissolve
the salt, it might have been possible, when it was cooled, for it
to take up that which it-had lost by heat, and that the absorp
tion of this air had precipitated part of the sulphate of soda, for
the same reason that one salt precipitates another from its solu
tion.
     In order to verify this conjecture, I introduced into a flask
filled with water deprived of air by boiling        it,and inverted over
mercury,      an  air-bell  occupying   the  fourteen  hundredth  part of
 the capacity of the vessel.        In twelve hours the air-bell had
 diminished but little, and in four days       it   was not entirely ab
sorbed.      An absorption so slow cannot account for the crystal
 lization of the sulphate of soda, when to concentrated solution
                                              a
 of this salt in vacuo we add a little air.       I   shall remark how
ever, that since a crystal determines the crystallization,      it   may
 be possible that the absorption of the air, however small at first,
 produces the precipitation of    a    little salt, and that afterwards
 the crystallization might continue the same.
     However the case may be,      it     seems probable that we may
 describe the property which the sulphate of soda also has of
 not crystallizing under certain circumstances, to the figure and
 arrangement of its molecules, which may be such that they
strongly resist any change of state.
    This property does not in my opinion differ in any way from
that possessed   by   water of maintaining its fluidity below its true
freezing point, under circumstances nearly similar, nor from the
properties of several saline solutions, of remaining sometimes
saturated, and of crystallizing as soon as we shake them, or in
troduce  a   foreign body.     But supposing the figure of the mo
lecules to be the chief cause of the foregoing phaenomena,           it   is
nevertheless difficult to conceive how the presence of the air acts
in disturbing their equilibrium and favouring their junction.
 I     think have demonstrated that the solvent power of water
          I
is   totally independent of the pressure of the atmosphere        ;   but
if  there remain any doubts, they would be soon removed                   by
showing that there are very few saline solutions which possess
the property of remaining hyper-saturated under certain cir
cumstances.     A    solution of phosphate of soda saturated at the
temperature      of  70° did not crystallize upon being cooled in         a
barometrical tube, even after being slightly shaken au air-bell
                                                          :

48                 Notices respectmg New Books.
did not produce crystallization ; but after the introduction of a
new quantity, the solution congealed in one mass.        If we take
it saturated at the degree of its ebullition, it will crystallize al
most constantly in vacuo, as well as in the air.
   A solution of alum saturated at the temperature of 40° did
not crystallize in two small tubes, one of which was kept open t
a slight agitation determined the crystallization in both.
    Nitre in solution, weak or concentrated, crystallized constantly
in the same way in vacuo, and in the open air : the case was
the same with the solutions of barytes and of strontian slightly
super-saturated j with the oxalic acid, the muriates of soda and
ammonia, the nitrate of lead, and the sulphate of potash.        It is
to be remarked, that the saline solutions which crystallize with
most reluctance in vacuo are precisely those which sometimes
remain super-saturated in the air.        We see from this, that the
fact from which we set out, in order to establish as a principle,
that the solvent power of water depends on the pressure of the
atmosphere, is not general ; but even supposing that this was
the case, it would not be the less clearly demonstrated by the
experiments which I have related, that the solvent power of
water is totally independent of any pressure exercised on its
surface.
                 XI.   Notices respecting New Books.
The      First Part of the Philosophical Transactions for 1814 has
 appeared   ;  the following are its contents :
    1.  A Synoptic Scale of Chemical Equivalents.        By William
 Hyde Wol'laston, M.D. Sec. R.S.— 2. Methods of clearing Equa
tions of quadratic,    cubic, quadrato-cubic, and higher Surds.    By
 William Allman, M.D.         Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir
 Joseph Banks, K.B. P.R.S. — 3. Analysis of a new Species of
 Copper Ore. By Thomas Thomson, M.D. F.R.S. L. and E.              —
4. The Bakerian Lecture : on some new Electro-chemical Phae-
 nomena.      By William Thomas Brande, Esq. F.R.S. Prof. Chem.
 R.I. —  5.  An  Account of some new Experiments on the fluoric
 Compounds; with some Observations on other Objects of Che
 mical Inquiry.       By Sir H. Davy, LL.D. F.R.S. V.F.R.I. —
6. Some Experiments and Observations on a new Substance which
becomes a violet-coloured Gas by Heat.        By'Sir Humphrv' Davy,
 LL.D. F.R.S. V.P.R.I.—        7- An Account of a Family having
 Hands and Feet with supernumerary Fingers and Toes.               By
 Anthony Carlisle, Esq. F.R.S.        In a Letter addressed to the
 Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. K.B. P.R.S.— 8. Experi
 ments and Observations on the Influence of the Nerves of the
                                                               eighth

                             Royal Society.                      49
eighth Pair on the Secretions of the Stomach.  By B.C. Brodie,
Esq. F.R.S.     Communicated by the Society for the Promotion
of Animal Chemistry. — 9. On a fossil human Skeleton from
Guadaloupe.     By Charles Konig, Esq. F.R.S.   In a Letter ad
dressed to the Right lion. Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. K.B. P.R.S.
— 10. A new Method of deducing a first Approximation to the
Orbit of a Comet from three Geocentric Observations.        By
James Ivory, A.M.     Communicated by Henry Brougham, Esq.
F.R.S. — 11. On the Affections of Light transmitted through
crystallized Bodies. By David Brewster, LL.D. F.R.S. Edin. and
F.S.A. Edin. In a Letter to Sir Humphry Davy, LL.D. F.R.S.
— 12. On the Polarisation of Light by oblique Transmission
through all Bodies, whether crystallized or uncrystallized.   Bv
David Brewster, LL.D. F.R.S. Edin. and F.S.A. Edin.         In a
Letter addressed to Taylor Combe, Esq. Sec. R.S. — 13. Further
Experiments on the Light of the Cassegrainian Telescope com
pared with that of the Gregorian. By Captain Henry Kater, Bri
gade Major. In a Letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph
Banks, Bart. K.B. P.R.S. — 14. Astronomical Observations re
lating to the sidereal Part of the Heavens, and its Connection
with the nebulous Part ; arranged for the Purpose of a critical
Examination.     By William Herschel, LL.D. F.R.S.
            XII.   Proceedings    of Learned        Societies.
                         ROYAL SOCIETY.
   June 30. The Right Hon. President in the Chair.           Sir
Everard Home furnished an Account of his various Experiments
on Rabbits, &c. tending to elucidate the influence of the nerves
on the secretions. The results, so far as could be ascertained
from the action of living matter after having sustained a me
chanical injury, were decidedly in favour of the opinion, that
all secretions are effected bv nervous influence.
   Smithson Tenant, Esq. described A new Method of Double
Distillation by means of Steam, whereby double the quantity of
fresh-water may be raised from salt-water in a ship's kettle, that
has hitherto been obtained.       His process was illustrated by a
drawing, showing how steam can be made to pass through wa
ter, and thus contribute to evaporize        so that an additional
                                              it,
quantity   of fresh-water  may  be procured in the same time and
with the same apparatus from sea-water at sea.
   An Account of   a  Series of Observations on the Formation of
human Bones, made       by  Mr. Housham, was communicated by
J.  Heaviside, Esq.    The author having favourable opportunities
                                                         '
   Vol. 44. No. 95 July
               1    .        1S14 .          D                  for

50                        Institute of France.               \
for observing the origin and progress of the growth of bones,
began with a child or foetus only seven weeks old, and continued
his observations at different times for several years.           He in
spected    the process  by  means    of  a   powerful microscope, from
which he observed that the arteries secrete a mucilage which
forms cartilage ; that the cartilage shortly becomes tubular, with
numerous spiculae around it containing phosphate of lime ; that
in the course of time bcny matter is completely deposited ; and
that, finally, the laminre appear.         Mr. H. described with great
minuteness the various forms which the matter assumed during
the entire process of ossification, and also the structure of the
most perfect bones, their nerves, blood-vessels, membranes, pe
riosteum, &c.      Chemists have long known that if a piece of
bone be digested in dilute muriatic or nitric acid, the gelatine
and earthy matter are dissolved, and there remains only a firm
cartilaginous substance retaining the figure of the bone : hence
it was known that cartilage is a constituent of bone. Mr. H.
has now proved that it is the nidus or rudiments of bone.
    A paper was read on the Triple Salts called Prussiates.        The
author derived his facts chiefly from Proust's experiments, and
after showing that these salts contain no prussic acid, proposed
to designate them by a more correct appellation, according as
they were the result, with a particular b.rse, of the peculiar
compound which he denominated carhyoxic acid, taking the
first syllable of the names of its elementary principles, carbon,
hydrogen, and oxygen, to which he added the termination ic.
    The Society then adjourned till Thursday the 10th of No
vember next.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE FRENCH INSTITUTE FOR THE YEAR 1S13.
                             BY M. CUVIER.
                   [Continued   from vol. xliii. p. 4G1.]
    After detailing the discovery of iode by M. Courtois, and
the subsequent experiments of Messrs. Clement and Desormes
and Sir Humphry Davy, with which the readers of the Philoso
phical Magazine are already acquainted, the report proceeds :
    Another manufacturer like M. Courtois, enlightened by che
mical science, has made an observation which may become im
portant to the arts.       M. Tassaert having for some time con
structed the floors of his soda furnaces with stone, he observed
on taking them down a blue substance which is not to be found
when briclis are used, and in which M. Vauquelin found almost
all the principles and all the properties of ultramarine : it is to
be hoped therefore that, by following up this indication, we may
some day or other succeed in imitating nature in the formation

                           Institute   of France.                      51
 of this valuable colour.     M. Pelletan jun. has remarked oil this
subject, that there is manifested, in the manufacture of soda, a
blue more or less intense, which calcination does not destroy,
and that this colour appears chiefly when iron is found in con
tact with soda not yet entirely freed from sulphuric acid.-
    Crude platina, as it is brought from Peru, is a body very
much compounded. Besides pure platina, a noble metal, heavier
than and equally unalterable with gold, it contains iron, copper
and mercury ; and the successive researches of Messrs. Wollaston,
Tenant, Descostils, Fourcroy, and Vauquelin, also demonstrated
ten years ago the presence of four metals, distinct from all those
with which we were formerly acquainted : these have been
named palladium, rhodium, osmium,- and iridium.
    M. Vauquelin has this year resumed the investigation of these
substances, having read a memoir on the most convenient me
thods of obtaining palladium and rhodium in a state of purity*.
     While M. Vauquelin was thus employed, M. Laugier, his
colleague in the Museum of Natural History, was occupied with
osmium, perhaps the most curious of all the metals found in
crude platina, and the oxide of which is volatilized at the heat
of boiling water, gives no colour to distilled water, but exhales
a pungent odour, and acts so strongly upon the olfactory nerve
as to affect the sense of smelling for several days.          These pro
perties, and others not less singular, made it a subject of regret
with chemists that it was so difficult to obtain this metal in a
considerable quantity ; but M. Laugier has satisfied them to a
certain extent.     When platina is dissolved in the nitro -muriatic
acid, there remains a black powder olbmposed of iridium and
osmium, and hitherto this powder alone had furnished osmium
to the chemists : but M. Laugier, having perceived that the
acid, which was used for dissolving the platina, and which is
again separated from it by distillation, exhaled a strong smell of
osmium, supposed that it contained this metal ; and in fact he
found that, by saturating the acid by caustic alkalis, but parti
cularly by lime, and by distilling the mixture, a solution was ob
tained with little trouble, containing a considerable quantity of
osmium, which formerly was entirely lost.
    In our report for 1808 we mentioned the fortunate trials
which had been made in the mines in the environs of Liege, to
obtain on a large scale zinc in a malleable state, and we alluded
to the advantage which might flow from our being able to sub
stitute zinc for lead in roofmg houses.            It was also proposed
to. substitute it for tinned copper, tinned iron, and pewter used in
kitchen and other utensils in daily use. But the Ministers of the
             * See
                   0 preceding article in the present Number.
                                     D  2                        Interior

 52                     Institute of Fra?ice.
  Interior and of War having consulted the Institute on this sub
 ject, the Committees of Chemistry and Medicine found that
 zinc is too soluble by the weakest acids, by grease, and even by
 pure water; and that the salts which it forms are very acrid,
 and in certain cases move the bowels too much to admit of this
 metal being used without danger.           M. Sage also individually
 made experiments, which convinced him that distilled water
 when kept in zinc utensils assumed a very decided styptic taste;
 and that the juice of fruits cooked in these vessels dissolves a
portion of them, and forms salts disagreeable to the taste : this
is the more vexatious, because the mines in question contain no
 arsenic as others do, and in this respect there is nothing to ap
 prehend.     Of this M. Sage has furnished a new proof by a series
of experiments which he laid before the Class.
     Messrs. Vauquelin and Thenard have given an analysis of the
mineral water of Provinz, from which it results that one litre
contains
             Carbonate of lime                       0-554
             Oxide of iron                           0-076
             Magnesia                                0-035
             Manganese                               0-017
            Silex                                    0-026
            Sea salt                                 0-042
            Carbonic acid 27 inches S-lOths
and an inappreciable quantity of muriate of lime and of a fatty
substance ; but the sulphuric acid, as has been supposed, does
not exist in it at all.
    M. Thenard has published the first volume of an elementary
Treatise on Chemistry, in which this science, which daily makes
such rapid progress, is exhibited under its present aspect.      The
author arranges the facts according to the degree of simplicity
of the bodies to which they belong. After having spoken of im
ponderable agents, he treats of oxygen, and of the theory of
combustion ; and passes afterwards to combustible bodies, their
combinations with each other, and those which they contract one
by one with oxygen.       These last are. divided, according to their
properties,   into oxides  and acids, and the fluoric and muriatic
acids are arranged according to the ordinary ideas, which refer
them to oxygenated bodies.        At this point ends the first part
of a work which the rapid progress of science has rendered ne
cessary so soon after other excellent works on the same subject,
and of which we cannot refrain from wishing to gee the speedy .
termination by M. Thenard.
    The method of positive and direct observation becomes daily
more prevalent in geology, and more precise notions are hourly
acquired as to the soils of various countries, the general laws of
                                                                their

                            Institute   of France.                       53
 their stratification,   and the organised bodies of which they con
 tain the remains.
    The stony beds which contain fresh-water shells only, so
 many of which Messrs. Cuvier and Brongniart have discovered
 in the environs of Paris, and which Messrs. Brongniart, Oma-
 lius de Halloy, Marcel de Serres, Daudebart de Ferussac, &c.
  have recognised in other countries, have particularly excited the
  attention of naturalists, who have set about distinguishing the
  shells of fresh from those of salt water.       Messrs. Marcel de
  Serres and Ferussac have each given in a memoir upon this
 subject.    The species alone, according to the former, may be
 offered in proof, and not the genera; for most of the genera have
  both fluviatile and marine species : the varieties even are not
 unworthy of notice ; for the same species, according to the ob
  servations of the author, sometimes changes its form, so as to
 deceive those who have not observed the different transitions ;
 and the difficulty increases when it is required to classify shells
 in the fossil state, when the epidermis, the hairs, and all the other
 fugitive characters have disappeared.
     There are species, particularly among the opermlecp, which
 live both in salt and fresh water, and which are consequently
 more abundant at the mouths of rivers : and we may observe
 among fossils traces of this habitude; for our fresh -water beds
 contain in certain places a species of the potamidus, a genus
 which is also met with at the mouths of rivers.
     M. Marcel de Serres visited on purpose the salt-water pits on
 the shores of the Mediterranean, in order to examine the shells
 which they contain : he there observed paludines similar to those
 which form extensive beds in the environs of Mentz, where se
 veral sea shells are also found.       A geologist who had con
founded these paludines with one of the bulimi of our fresh
 water strata, concluded that the latter are sea shells as well as
the others ; but de Serres clears up this mistake, and shows that
they are not only species, but different genera.
    This observer has examined the limits of these migrations of
animals and plants from salt to fresh water, and vice versa.
He ascertained that no animal and no plant can resist a brine
of eight degrees : he has distinguished, both among animals and
plants, the species which adhere to the shores of the sea on ac
count of the sand, and which can exist in other sandy places
also ; those which are attracted by the salt alone, and which
exist very well in salt pits or lakes at a distance from the sea;
and, finally, those which require the sea as it          is,
                                                      and do not re
move from it.
 These observations prove that          it   is   not always easy to decide
                                   D    3                                if

54                       Institute of  France.
if  a shell is a salt- or a fresh-water  one ; but they do not weaken
the fact of there being immense beds where there are only shells
well known to be of fresh-water origin ; and they even account
for our also fmding these shells dispersed in beds of marine
formation.
    M. de Serres places the lignites or bituminized woods among
the fossils which are most frequently mixed with terrestrial and
fresh-water shells ; and this renders it probable that these woods
 have grown on the spot where they are now found, besides
 agreeing with all the other facts, which show that the surface of
 the present globe was dry, and peopled with animals and ter
 restrial vegetables, previous to the last irruption of the seas.
    Two young and expert naturalists, Messrs. Desmarets and
 Leman, have found in the fresh-water strata of our neighbour
 hood, even shells of those small entomostracece which are called
 cypris, and even the seeds of the plant known by the name of
 char a.    These seeds had been taken for shells, and the name
 of gyrogonites was given them.
     The geological system of the environs of Paris, which formed
 the chief object of the observations and discoveries of Messrs.
 Brongniart and Cuvier, is now followed up with great zeal by
 several learned naturalists.      Messrs. de Tristan and Bigot de
  Morogue have carefully described the districts adjoining the
  Loire; and M. Omalius de Halloy, mining engineer, in following
  up these inquiries, and those of our associate M. Desmarets,
 is occupied in laying down all the boundaries on a chart.         The
  beds of this system deposited upon chalk represent an irregular
 and curvilinear trapezium, of which the southern side parallel
 to the Loire runs along this river on the south from Cosme
 to below Blois ; the eastern side passes near the towns of Mon-
 targis, Nemours, Montereau, Villenoxe, Sezanne, Epernay,
  Laon, Crepy, and La Fere ; the northern side near the towns of
  Chauny, Noyon, Compiegne, Clermont, Beaumont, Chaumont,
  and Gisors ; lastly, the western side descends by Mantes, Hou-
  dan, Epernon, Auneau, and along the Loire to the vicinity of
  Vendome, from which it rejoins the Loire at Blois.           All this
  space is surrounded with chalk ; and the chalk, in which M. de
  Halloy has recognised three very distinct modifications, is sur
  rounded itself, except towards the sea, with a compact cal
  careous substance more ancient, which forms a great part of
  Berry, Burgundy, and Lorraine, extending to Vosges, and which
 reappears beyond the Black Forest in Franconia and Hesse.
  The formations of the system of Paris send out various ramifi
  cations over this chalk, while the agriculture, industry and re
 sources of a district are frequently detailed by the geology of its
                                                                  soil.

                         Institute  of France.                      55
soil.   M. de Halloy visited all these places on foot, and was not
disheartened, either by the badness of the weather or of the
roads.
    M. Brongniart, a corresponding member of the Class, has
visited a part of France equally interesting in a geological point
of view, viz. the department of La Manche : and M. de Halloy,
who followed his steps,       confirmed and completed part of his
observations.     From the description given by M. Brongniart of
the rocks of this country-, and of their mutual position, it results,
that what were denominated as granites properly so called, be
longed to that other kind of rock called syenite by Werner,
and characterized by the amphibole which enters into its com
position, as well as from its formation being much more recent
than that of the true granite*       These systems of La Manche
repose   on  schists and other  rocks   long posterior in formation to
the granite : it even appears that in certain places they have
under them calcareous matter containing fragments of organised
bodies ; a fact which would be analogous to that observed in
Norway by M. de Buch, and from which we might conclude
that there were also precipitations of crystallized rocks, after
 manifestation of life in the waters which anciently enveloped
 the globe.
     M. Brongniart, who is occupied with a general Treatise of
 Geology, has presented the plan according to which he pro
 poses to distribute the rocks, i. e. those aggregations of minerals
 which compose the crust of the present globe.            Applying the
 principles at present recognised by all naturalists, he wishes the
 bases and the details of the whole of his method to rest on
 characters taken from the rocks themselves; and he rejects all
 those which might be taken from their natural position on the
 globe, which/belongs to their history, but not to their systematic
 division : he separates .the rocks, and leaves among the simple
 minerals the mineral substances which appear to be simple to
 the naked eye, and the heterogeneousness of which is manifested
 only by washing and other operations, which, without being re
  garded as chemical analysis, nevertheless alter the appearance
 and texture of these substances ; such are the schists, argil, &c.
  Rocks so reduced, or, as M. Brongniart expresses himself, the
  mixed rocks, are subdivided into crystallized and aggregated :
  the former have their parts in proportions nearly equal, or rather
  one of these parts prevails over the others : in the former case the
  genera are established according to the essential substances, i.e.
  those which are constantly there : in the latter case, according
  to the base, i. e. the prevailing substance: and in both eases
  the number of component substances, and the structure resulting
  from their mode of union, serve to distinguish the species.
                                   D  4                            The

56                         Institute of France.
The aggregate rocks       are divided according as the cement which
unites them is more or less apparent, and according to the nature
of this cement and the grains which it agglutinates.
     In this work, so important for serving as the basis for the
 History properly so called of Rocks, the author has throughout
preserved the names given them by M. Haiiy in the arrange
ment which he has made of them in the Museum of Natural
 History.
     M. brongniart has also represented to the Class the division
 which he thmks ought to be established between rocks con
 sidered with respect to the date of their formation, and to the
 remains of organized bodies which they contain, and which are
 the strongest marked indications of those aeras.          Underneath all
 the rest are the granitic strata, without organized bodies, and
 the most ancient with which we are acquainted : the soils which
 cover them contain but a small quantity of organic remains, and
 almost all are zoophytes : a third series, that of the svenitic
 strata, yields none, as if their production had been suddenly in
 terrupted ; in the fourth series shells begin to appear, and
 chiefly those which are called cornua Ammonia : the fifth and
 sixth classes of strata are characterized by the gryphites and the
  cerites, which prevail among their shells : lastly, there are strata
 the distribution of which is so irregular that we cannot classify
  them in the order of time : these are trapp rocks on the one
  hand, and on the other those which result from the ejections of
  volcanos.     With all these groups, strata of transport are mixed,
  productions of violent motions occasioned by revolutions, and
  which are sufficiently correct indicators of the moment at which
  each has commenced.
      The well known phenomenon of the fall of the leaves in autumn
  is still the subject of some discussions with respect to its causes,
  and still gives rise to various observations.       M. Carnot, member
  of the section of mechanics, but whose active mind embraces
  every department of science, having remarked that certain trees
  begin to throw off their leaves from top to bottom, and vice versa;
   M. Palissot de Beauvois, member of the section of botany, has
   inquired into the cause of this difference.          He found that in
   general the species in which the autumnal shoots consist of
   simple prolongations of the extremities of the branches, are first
   stripped at bottom, and that those in which this shoot takes
   place by small lateral branches, begin to throw off the leaves at
   top ; or, in other words, that the last grown leaves are also the
   last which fall off.     Duhamel, who had made a similar remark,
    was astonished that those leaves which ought to be most tender
     esisted the frost longest : this proves that it is not the frost which
    makes the leaves fall off, but that their- fall is a necessary and
                                                                        CO

                          Institute of France.                      57
ordinate effect of the process of vegetation ; and that either by
the development of the shoo,t, or by an interior alteration pre
pared by nature, the petiole is detached when the progress of its
nutrition has brought on the moment when the texture ought to
be dissolved which served as its lien.      Thus when a tree, from
any given cause, perishes in the season of vegetation, its leaves
preserve their adherence.
     We know that several flowers open and shut at certain hours,
and that heat and humidity influence this phaenomenon.             M.
Desvaux, a botanist of Paris, has made some observations in this
respect on the mesembriunlhcmums, plants in which these alter
nate movements are so remarkable, that their generic name has
been taken from the circumstance ; and he has found that the
cause resides not in the corolla, as has been supposed, but in the
calyx, which by closing forces the corolla to obey -its contractions ;
so that, if we cut off the calyx, the corolla remains expanded at
night as well as by day.
     M. de Mirbel, our colleague, has this year presented us with
two series of researches ; the first on the seed, and on the mem
branes which cover it; the second on the pericarp, i.e. the re
ceptacle in which the seed is lodged.        He has inquired in the
first place, to what extent the analogy established by Malpighi
 maybe regarded as exact, between the tunicas of the foetus in the
womb, and those which envelop the seed of plants. The erhbryo
 composed of the plumule and of the radicle being considered as
a foetus, Malpighi thought he recognised in the testa, or external
 tunic, the representation of the chorion, and in the tegmen, or
 interior tunic, that of the amnios : the perisperm appeared to him
 to represent the liquor amrrii in which the foetus swims.       M. de
 Mirbel finds, on the contrary, that originally the seed is only a
 mucilaginous and continuous cellular tissue, one part of which at
 first becomes the embryo, and the rest afterwards forms the peri-
 sperm and seminal tunics, without our being able to say that the
 embryo at any period floats in a liquid. The mucilaginous state
 of this tissue, and its transparency, may therefore have suggested
 the inaccurate comparison made by Malpighi.
     M. de Mirbel, passing to the examination of the pericarp, suc
 ceeded in referring the forms of it to a general law, which, deter
 mining what is essential in this part of the vegetable, reduces
 almost to nothing the anomalies which it seems to present in
 certain families.    The general type of every pericarpian capsule
  appeared to him to be represented by a small box flattened on
  the sides, and composed of two valves the union of which forms
 two rims or two sutures, one crooked and the other straight, and
 by which the vessels pass which go to these seeds, either from
 the body of the plant, from the style, or from the organ which
                                                             transmits

58                        Institute of France.
transmits their fecundating power.        This disposition is eviden   t
in the husks of the leguminous plants, such as French beans,
peas, &c.      We perceive it also very distinctly in the kernels of
almonds, cherries, &c. one of the sides of which exhibits a furrow
and sometimes a channel which indicates the passage of the
vessels.     M. de Mirbel gives the name of camare to a simple
capsule   like the above.    The plants just mentioned have only-
one for  each   flower.   When   there are several, their seminiferous
or vascular sutures are always on the side of the ideal axis of
the fruit ; and if we represent them as soldered together, they
form a single pericarpian box, divided into several compartments,
and bearing the seeds along its central axis.        It is thus that in
one and the same family the cumares are sometimes distinct,
sometimes united according to the genera, as we see in the
ranunculi and the rutacece : it is thus also that certain camares
which are soldered at first are separated at the aera of maturity,
as in the moss rose, euphorbium, the hura crepitans, &c.
   These ideas being once admitted, we find that pericarps very
different at first sight, are nevertheless only slight modifications
of a common design : but as it also happens that very remote
families have pericarps similar, it is rare that we can draw from
this part characters proper for enabling us to group plants well.
    This is not the case with the internal structure of* the seeds,
which differs much in the various groups, and very little in the
interior of one and the same group ; and this partly induced
M. Mirbel to divide the familyjbf the orange trees of M. de Jussieu
into four .families ; viz. the aurantiacece, already very much cir
cumscribed by M. Correa; the olacinece, which comprehend the
olax, the Jissila, the heisitria and the ximevia ; the theacece,
in which are included the tea plant and the camelia; and the tern-
stromice, in which are included the ternstromia and the fresiera.
   The family of the olacinece does not comprehend the ximenia
cegyptaica, of which M. Delille has properly made a new genus
under the name of Balanites.        This vegetable, which we do not
as yet know how to classify, presented to M. Mirbel a character
which is perhaps unique in vegetation.         Every botanist knows
the glandular body which is placed under the pistil of many
flowers, and to which the name of disk or nectary has been given ;
it exists in the balanites in the form of a purse ; the pistil is at
first shut up in it entirely, and does not appear ; but by growth
it separates the sides of the purse, and becomes visible.
    M. Henri de Cassini, the son of one of our members, whose
botanical labours we noticed last year, impressed with the idea
developed by sound naturalists, that a classification, to be cor
rect, ought to be founded on the ensemble of the characters, has
this year directed his attention to the stamens of the great family
                                                                     of

                         Institute   of France.                         59
of  plants known by the names of compositce, syngenesis, and
synantkerue; in which he has discovered several peculiarities
hitherto unknown.     No botanist, for instance, had remarked
the articulation which separates the thread in the vicinity of the
anthera, a character which M. de Cassini has found to be much
more constant than that of the union of the antherae among
themselves.       He promises to give us his observations on the
corolla, the ovary, the pericarp, and the seed ; and as it cannot
be doubted that he has paid the same attention to these inquiries
as to his former communications,         no family of plants will be so
well described.      Botany may expect much from such a student,
if,   after having minutely described    a    family so natural that we
may     almost  regard it  as a great genus, he should exercise his
 sagacity in these equivocal families, whose varied characters
 render their limits uncertain.
     Vegetable physiology, like all the other branches of science,
presents abundance of these difficult questions, of which nature
does not furnish an evident solution, and which will long continue
 to be an object of discussion among botanists.
     Such, among others,    is  the question respecting the existence
 of the sexes in the plants known by the name of the cryptoga-
 mous. Many botanists, disappointed          by the difficulty of discover
 ing their organs,      concluded   that  these  vegetables might exist
 without sexes, and propagate by'bulbs or simple buds, as'well as
 certain animals, such as the polypi, whose reproduction certainly
 takes place in this way.       Others, on the contrary, struck with
 the complication of the apparatus for reproduction in the ferns,
 the mosses, &c. could not believe that       a   kind of propagation so
 simple as that of the buds could have rendered necessary organs
 so multiplied and various.        They endeavoured therefore to dis
  cover the stamens, the pollen, the pistil, the seeds, the embryos,
 and all the agents of fecundation, which are so palpable in ordi-             -
 nary plants ;    but as the analogy of form quits them, although
 they are united as to the principle, they diverge in its applica
  tions.    Thus, what one takes for the pollen, another regards as
  the seed, and vice versa  ;    so that these sexualists (as they are
  called)   have  no fewer  disputes among them than their common
  adversaries, or the agamisis.
     In former reports we have noticed these disputes.            The pre
  sent year has revived one respecting the great work of M. Des-
  vaux, on the family of- the lycopodia.           We know that these
  plants (recently separated      from   the  other  mosses   by
                                                                 botanists)
  carry in small capsules a yellowish dust very combustible, which
     well known   by   the name of powder of lycopodium, and which
is isused for various purposes.       Its resemblance to the powder of
  the  anthers   made    M.  de  Beauvois    regardit     as
                                                          a    true pollen.
                                                                   According

  (JO                      Institute of France.
 According to some observers, however, it does not burst in water
 like pollen ; and it is admitted by all, that when it is spread on
 the ground it grows, and produces lycopodia. But the former pro
 perty is not of an essential nature ; aud M. de Beauvois ascribes
 the latter to small globules, which he has distinguished among
 this dust, and which he regards as small bulbs or eyes ; so that,
 according to him, it is not the yellow dust which springs up, but
 these bulbs, which cannot be separated from them.        As to the
 true seeds which      the  pollen would  be destined to fecundate,
 M. de Beauvois finds them in other capsules, placed sometimes
 between and sometimes under the former, and containing only
 small round seeds, transparent and larger than those of the yellow
 powder.     But Jihese peculiar capsules have only been found in
 about one third of the various species of lycopodia, and they
 have been looked for in vain in the rest.
      M. Desvaux agrees almost entirely with M. de Beauvois as
 to the facts, but denies the consequences : he sees nothing in the
 yellow dust but bulbs or eyes, or, as he calls them, propagult $,
 which have no occasion for fecundation in order to germmate.
 The other seeds observed by M. de Beauvois are merely, he
 says, if we may judge from their small number, their transpa
 rency, and irregular figure, abortive propagules.
     M. de Beauvois answers, by showing that all the definitions
 which the most learned botanists have given of the seed are ap
 plicable to these globules ; and setting out from the prihciple
 that the existence of a seed presupposes that of the female sex,
 and that the existence of on.6 sex implies that of another, he ad
 heres to his first ideas.
     His antagonist replies, that a nominal definition formed ac
 cording to the received ideas cannot decide a process wherein
 these same ideas are disputed, and that the visible characters of
structure, recognised in all the seeds, are far from being verified
here, on account of the smallness of the object.
     We find that the discussion now becomes metaphysical.     The
 only method of ascertaining the point in the eyes of hesitating
 physiologists, would be to operate the fecundation of what we
 regard as pistils by means of what we regard as pollen ; but who
 could flatter himself with making on organs so delicate, the ex
 periment which has so plainly demonstrated the existence of
 the sexes in common plants ?
     M. Desvaux has given besides a methodical distribution of all
 the known lycopodia, adding some subdivisions to those esta
blished by M. de Beauvois in a preceding work on the same sub
ject, and taking for his principal bases the existence of the' two
 sorts of capsules, and the division of the capsules into com
 partments more or less numerous.
                                                        M. Decan-

                         Institute of France.                    61
    M. Decandolle, of Montpelier, has made known some parasite
mushrooms of a new genus, which he calls rkizoctones, or death
of- the roots, because they attach themselves to the roots of the
plants, and speedily destroy them.         M. Persoon had united,
under the head sclerotium, the fleshy fungosities in the interior
like ttuffles, but without those veins which give to the consis
tence of truffles a marbled appearance.       Hedwig had separated
from them the erysiphes, which exist on the surface of the leaves ;
but we might still observe in those which remained, characters
sufficient to furnish two genera : one genus not essentially para
sitic, growing on dunghills and among putrid vegetables, has
neither roots nor fibres : another (and to this ^jae rkizoctones
belong) sends out simple or ramified filaments, grows on the roots
»f living plants, attacks them externally, and kills them by ab
sorbing their nutrition.      They are multiplied with rapidity b?
means of *these filaments, which propagate them from one plant
to another, and thus occasion contagious diseases, from which
many of our nurserymen have suffered severely.        We were well
acquaintedwith one species only, which produces the disease too
well known in the Gathiois by the name of death of saffron.
Another, which M. Decandolle describes for the first time, ex
ercises its ravages on lucern, the ropts of which are lightly em
braced by its threads, which are of a fine lake colour : the stalks,
when thus attacked, become yellow, and die speedily : and as
the champignon is propagated by radiation, we soon see in the
lucern fields many circular spots thu* deprived of vegetation.
 The author recommends planters to dig around the infected
places deep ditches, to prevent the creeping filaments from
 spreading, taking care to throw the earth within -the circle, in
 order not to extend the evil instead of checking it.
    One of the most difficult points in botany consists in fixing
accurately the limits of the species, not regarding as such the
varieties of soil and climate ; and the chief way to avoid this
error, is not to admit among the characters of the species the
 peculiarities of organisation, the mutability of which has been
ascertained beyond a doubt. -M. Desvaux having applied this
                                                                     -
 method to the rose trees, and perceiving that several of their
 pretended species differed only in characters which were various
 in the same individual, succeeded in reducing considerably the
 nominal species of this genus. He has shown, for example, that
 the common wild rose frosa cjumioj presents twenty-one varie
 ties, the differences of which might be expressed by descriptions,
 but which pass insensibly into each other ; and that thirteen of
 these varieties have been improperly raised to the rank of species
 by certain authors : six other pretended species have also been
 displaced from this rank, and assigned to the rose of the alps

-
   62                      Institute    of France.
   five to the hedge rose,  &c. If the same rigorous severity were
   extended    to the whole of natural history, it would be greatly
   simplified and elucidated ; but naturalists, to attain this ob
  ject, must renounce the vain honour of augmenting without end
   the list of known species.     In the present state of science there
   would certainly   be more  real  glory in diminishing this list.
       M. Delille, a member of the Institute of Egypt, read to the
   Class a very interesting history of the plants, wild and cultivated,
   of that celebrated country.      He intends that it shall form part
  of the great work on Egypt, to which so many men of talents
  and learning have contributed, and which is published with a
  magnificence proportioned to the grandeur of an enterprise of
  which it will be the most durable monument.           The author di
  stinguishes the plants peculiar to Egypt from those which are
  carried thither by the inundation of the Nile and the winds of the
  Desert, and from those which are common to other countries : he
  fixes the limits assigned to each species in this long and narrow
  valley, by the latitudes, by the quality, more or less saline and
  more or less sandy, of the soil : he makes known the variations
  produced by each soil on the plants which grow in several soils;
  and he carefully explains the species cultivated, and the at
  tention which each requires on account of the climate peculiar
  to that country, and perhaps unique in its kind throughout the
  world. We have to regret that a work, essentially composed of
  details, cannot be more fully noticed consistently with the limits
  of this report.
      M. Decandolle has published an elementary theory of botany,
  in which he explains all the varieties of form and combination of
  the organs, as well as the terms by which they are expressed,
  establishing the rules of every reasonable nomenclature, and giv
  ing a general theory of the methods of distribution, and parti
  cularly of that which is called natural^ because it is founded on
  the essential relations of vegetables to each other. He enters on
 this head into various considerations, which are peculiar to him
 self, as to the value of these relations, and on the organs and
 conformations of organs in which they ought to be found : he
 suggests new yiews or differences in appearance very consider
 able between certain vegetables, and which nevertheless arise
 from the abortion or unnatural junction of some of their organs.
 Setting out from the species in which this abortion or junction
 is openly manifested, he proceeds to other species where these
 phaenomena are not visible, and which they must take for granted
 from analogies similar to the hypothesis to which men of science
 have recourse when they are deserted by facts, in order to leave
 no vacancies in the chain of their .developments.          These me
 thods might     be dangerous   in   less adroit hands, but M. Decan
                                                                    dolle

                              French Prize Questions.                  63
dolle has made a moderate and ingenious use of them.          His
work must be of great service, by introducing more of a philo
sophic spirit into a branch of natural history too much aban
doned to routine, and which still reckons among its followers too
many servile imitators.
  M.                  of Toulouse, has published an abridged
        de la Peyrouse,
account of the plants of the Pyrenees, in one vol. 8vo.  This
work, which was a desideratum in botany, is chiefly gathered from
the numerous journeys made by the author in this interesting
chain of mountains, and comprehends the abridged descriptions
of all the species which have been observed there, either by
himself or by his predecessors, arranged according to the system
af Linnaeus, with the names of the places where they grow, and
the best drawings of them which were to be procured.          The
work    is,
          upon the whole,  an important  addition  to  the French
Flora, and an excellent guide for those who wish to visit the
interesting mountains of the Pyrenees.
                                 [To   be continued.]
              XIII.   Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
o   m Monday the 3d of January 1814 the Class of Physical and
Mathematical Sciences of France held their first annual meeting.
Chevalier Halle presided, and the following was the order of
their proceedings         :
   After the announcement of the prizes for the year 1814,
M. Biot read     discourse on the spirit of invention and inquiry,
                      A
as connected with the sciences.
   M. Delambre read a notice on the life and writings of
M. Malus, chief director of the Polylechnic School, and of Count
Lagrange, both deceased.
   M. Palissot de Beauvois read a paper on the way in which
trees lose their leaves in autumn.
   The meeting was terminated          notice of the life and writ
                                             by   a
ings of M. de Sausure, by M. Cuvier.
   The Class proposes as the mathematical prize question to be
decided in January 18i6, the following subject: The theory of
the propagation of waves on the surface of       ponderous fluid of
                                                            a
an indefinite depth. The prize will be gold medal, value 3000
                                                        a
francs.    The papers to be transmitted before the 1st of October
4815.     The result will be announced on the first Monday of
January 1816.
   The Class had for the second time proposed as the subject of
an extraordinary prize, " The theory of the oscillations of elas
tic laminae," which was to have been decided at the    -
                                                         present
                                                                 .meeting.

  64          Riga Literary and Philosophical Society.
 meeting.     Two essays were received ; that which was marked
  No. 2. was totally unconnected with the sulijcct of discussion in
 the contemplation of the Class.
    The essay No. 1 . had for its device these words of Bacon :
  Sed longe maximum progressibut scientiurum et novis pensis ac
 provinciis in iisdcm .svscipiendis obstaculum deprehendiltur in
 desperatione homiimm it snpppnlione impotsibilis.         The ana
 lysis which the author of this memoir has employed to attain
 his fundamental equation, has been judged altogether inaccu
 rate, and this equation even seemed in no manner to result from
 this analysis ; but that part of the memoir which contains the
 comparison of the theory with the experiments of M. Chladni,
 being drawn up with accuracy, and leading in general to satis
 factory results, the Class considered it worthy of honourable
 mention.
    The same subject is again proposed on the same conditions :
 viz. a gold medal of the value of 3000 francs, to be awarded on
 the first Monday of January 1816.
    The Class had proposed as the subject of a mathematical
 prize question, to be decided at the present sitting, the follow
 ing : " Determine by calculation, and confirm by experiment,
 the manner in which electricity is distributed over the surface
 of electrical bodies, and considered both as insulated and as in
 presence of each other ; for instance, on the surface of two
 electrified spheres, and in presence of each other.    In order to
 simplify the problem, the Class only requires the examination
 of the cases in which electricity spread over every surface re
mains always of the same nature."
    None of the papers transmitted in answer to the above haviHg
been deemed worthy of the prize, the question was withdrawn.
    The Class has not been made acquainted this year with any
work which merits the prize for Galvanism, as instituted by
Bonaparte.
    The medal given by Lalande " for the observation of most
interest or the memoir of most utility to astronomy, which shall
have appeared in the course of the year," has been adjudged to
M. d'Aussy jun. as a mark of encouragement, and on account
of an extensive work on the perturbations and elliptical ele
ments of the planet Vesta.       This young astronomer is also ad
vantageously    known  from  the  elements which he has given of the
orbits of several comets.
   A literary and philosophical society has recently been esta
blished at Riga.     The members meet twice a month to consult
as to the best means of diffusing knowledge, and facilitating the
study of political ceconomy, natural history, chemistry, and
                                                        commerce.

                     Mineral Spring. — Architecture.                         65
commerce.          Their more immediate objects        are the      extirpation
of idolatry among the inhabitants, and the establishment of pre
cautions against the ravages of fire.
   Mineral water of Roisdorff, a village about a league from the
Rhine and four frorn Cologne.        M. Fetazzi has analysed this
water, which rises in a well above 17 feet deep and 5 wide, in an
alluvial soil mixed with blocks of trap, and gives the following
as its contents.    In four litres (about 8-4532 English pints) he
found 2-3356 litres (or 1(50 English cubic inches) of carbonic
gas ; muriate of soda 4-266 grams, ditto of lime 0-337 ; sulphate
of soda 1-163, ditto of lime 0-217; carbonate of soda 3-544,
ditto of lime 0-326, ditto of magnesia 2-S09, and silica 0-043.
Total 12-705 grams, or 196-216 English grains of solid matter.
Its specific gravity to distilled water   as 1-0089 to 1-0000. The
                                             is,
analysis was made when the water was at 8f> degrees of the cen
tigrade thermometer, that of the air being 2°. The spring
                                                                             a is
                                                   1
within 80 feet of a well of pure water, and about 160 from
strong chalybeate one.
     Literature and the Sciences have been cultivated in Poland
  notwithstanding the occurrences of the last year.           Count Siera-
 kowsky     has  published  at  Cracow   a  magnificent   work  on Archi
 tecture,     intwo volumes folio, one of which         filled with plates.
                                                       is
It   is written in the Polish language, and the periodical work*
 published in Poland speak of       it   in the following terms      " Ar:
 chitecture has been studied by various Polish authors but none     ;
 of their works have been brought to          a conclusion, because the
 -printing   of  them   has  been    constantly interrupted         by
                                                                  the mis
 fortunes of the country.       A   short time previous to the last par
 tition of the kingdom, Count Stanislas Potocki had formed an
 Architectural Society, with the view of publishing Polish work a
 on architecture, and Count Sierakowsky was member of that,
                                                       a
 society but at the period above alluded to the project was
          ;
 abandoned, and the society dissolved<.            The latter nobleman,
 however, persisted singly in collecting materials          ;and the work
 he has now published      is  the result of twelve years labour and
 personal sacrifices, having published       it at his own expense.          It
                                  -
is divided into three parts the first part treats of beauty, the
                                :
second of convenience, and the third of the construction of
buildings public and private.          The author, having formed his
taste in Italy, has introduced into the second volume, which
consists entirely of plates, drawings of the finest public buildings
in Rome, such as the Circus MaxiipusT &c. In short, the worft
embraces every department of architecture from the cottage to
the palaee, and from the cistern and the ice-house to the aque-
    VoL4|. No, 195. July 1»14.                     E                 duct.

66                          Bavarian Academy.
duct.     The work is upon the whole the more meritorious, as
having been executed amid all the calamities of war.                    The
author was formerly Conservator of the Crown of Poland, Che
valier of the Order of Stanislas, and Rector of the University of
Cracow.
     At tile last anniversary meeting of the Royal Ravarian Aca
 demy of Sciences at Munich, M. Bader read a Discourse ou
 the Possibility of determining the Principles of Ethics by Re
 ference to the Physical          Sciences.     M. de Scbrank read an
 ingenious     Dissertation     on  the  Influence  of mental and bodily-
 Temperament        in  furthering the Progress of the Sciences, and on
 scientific Occupations.         M. Schlichtgerol, Secretary General to
 the Academy, recapitulated the proceedings of last year.               The
 library, he observed, had been greatly augmented ; the botanical
 garden enlarged, and enriched with many new plants; and a do
 nation had been made of the literary collections of the late Pro
 fessor Schraeber of Erlangen.
     The Philological and Philosophiesl Class of the above Acade
 my proposes for the year 1815 the following as the subject of a
 prize question : " As the writings and doctrine of Plato have
 been hitherto the subject of numerous philological and philoso
 phical inquiries, and their success depends in an especial man
 ner on a correct knowledge of the authenticity and chronological
 order of the writings of this philosopher, the Academy wishes
  that the learned should turn their attention to these subjects."
  In consequence, all men of letters who are acquainted with the
  works of Plato are invited to state what treatises in his name
  are of doubtful      authenticity, and in what order those are to be
 taken which are avowedly authentic.             Memoirs on this subject
  must be transmitted on or before the 20th of March 1815.
  The prize is 50 ducats, and the successful work is to become
  the property of the Academy.
     M. Sehoen, Professor of Mathematics in the University of
  Wurtzburg, has recently published at Nuremberg a mathema
  tical work entitled " A Complete Theory of Astronomy, with
  a Supplement          concerning the Calendar;          preceded by the
  Theory of Conic Sections and some Curves of the higher Orders;
  with four tables and eight engravings."          In this work M. Sehoen
  supposes    the   reader   already  acquainted   wi  h spherical trigono
  metry    and  the  first principles  of algebra.    The  treatise on conic
   sections and other curves*, only contains what       is necessary to the
  understanding of the science which forms the principal object
  of his work, and from which it is in other respects entirely di
  stinct. The author does not follow the analytical method,
                                                                    thinking

                      Astronomy.- — Barometer.                    67
thinking it is too pregnant with difficulties for beginners.     He
discusses in particular every curve of the second degree, and
afterwards shows their analogy with each other.         Among the
curves of the higher orders, he treats in detail the cissoid
and conchoid ; and, passing to the transcendent curves, gives as
examples the cycloid, epicycloid, and hypocyeloid.
    His astronomy commences by an introduction perhaps too
short for beginners : a few pages are only devoted to the chief
phaenomena of the heavens, such as the diurnal motion, the ap
parent motion of the sun, the determination of the equinoctial
points, &c. These observations lead to a description of the
horizon, the equator, and the ecliptic, on which all spherical
astronomy depends.
    In theoretical astronomy, the author treats of eclipses at very
great Length, and so as fully to attain his object.     The use of
the eclipses of the moon in the determination       of geographical
distances, might perhaps have been better placed after the de
tails which he subsequently gives on the subject of the figure of
the earth.
    M. Schoen thinks that the mean barometrical height ought
to be smaller under the equator than in the temperate zone?,
considering that the gravity is there less.       Nevertheless, ac
cording to the known laws of hydrostatics, the absolute weight
of the air ought to be equal over the whole surface of the sea,
abstraction being made of the temperature : thus, in order that
an equilibrium may subsist, the column of mercury must neces
sarily be higher in places where the weight is not so intense.
    The variations of the barometer, caused by the increase and
diminution of the temperature at different heights, are explained
in- a novel manner which deserves the attention of men of science.
    The laws of Kepler are only exhibited in a historical point of
view, since they may be inferred from the preceding part of the
work.     M. Schoen gives an indirect solution of the problem of
the mean anomaly and the true anomaly.
    The article in which the author treats of comets would have
been more complete, if he had given a method for calculating the
orbit of these extraordinary bodies by means of their apparent
course.    Lalande, Laplace, or Olbers, could have furnished him
with the requisite materials.     The article on perturbations is
not very extensive, but it is sufficient to give a very correct idea
of this remarkable phaenomenon. The Appendix contains the
history of the Calendar, the comparison of the sra of Nabono-
aor with ours ; and, finally, the ordinary principles which are
necessary for the drawing up of our calendar.      Upon the whole,
the work is more adapted for those who have .gone through a
course of astronomy already than for beginners.
                                E 2                          A great

68                              Antiques.
    A great numher of antique      vases have recently been discovered
 at Canosa, in the kingdom of Naples, in a most magnificent
 ancient tomb.      Two of these vases are peculiarly interesting to
 the antiquarian.     One of them is of a most extraordinary size,
 and   its equal has never  been yet discovered.     It exhibits thirty-
 six painted figures,  besides   many   emblems   in  various compart
 ments, probably alluding to the labours of Hercules.            On the
 neck are two elegant cars drawn by four superb white horses,
 being the chariot of the Sun and of Aurora.            At the bottom
 there is a tetrastyle temple of the Tuscan order, in which as if
 in a niche are two personages of a dignified appearance, who
 seem to be Pluto and Proserpine.        Lower down there is a Her
 cules armed with his club, combating Cerberus, besides various
 other figures not yet found out.
     This vase, although very fine, is nevertheless, with respect to
 design and delicacy of workmanship, inferior to the other, which
 is smaller, and presents twenty-eight figures also in different
 compartments. We there find likewise the cars above described,
 and the tetrastyle temple ; but we also read in the architrave
 of the temple, in excellent Greek characters, KPEONTEIA. On
 the left hand there is another figure, under which is written
'irrOTHS ; and on the right hand there is a female, over whose
 head we read MEPOril.            Higher up are the two letters ZN.
     We also see on the left an interesting image of Death,
 EIAflAON AIITOT is written over it. This image is repre
 sented in company with another wrapped in a black cloak, and
 with a menacing visage. Upon the head of the latter is a kind
 of two-curled wig.         In the middle of the inner compart
 ment there is a figure representing Fury, OJSTPOS, and on
 the two sides two other figures ; that on the left representing a
 man (iasonytAZflN, who is about to throw himself down; the
 other is Medea, MHAEIA.
     All the amateurs and antiquarians who have eeen the above
 vases pronounce them to be the most valuable in Europe, on ac
 count of their size, the variety of the figures, and the delicacy of
 the design.     The tomb in which they were found is hollowed
 out of the solid stone.      In the inside there are bas-reliefs re
 presenting hunting-matches : there were also found inside two
 casques, a cuirass, two pieces of leg armour, and a kind of or
 nament for the cuirass ; all of which were gilt.            Vases were
  also found without any figures or ornaments.           The number of
 figures on each of the two great vases amounts to fifty.         A de
 tailed account, with drawing.?, is about to be published.
     A variety of antiquities have been recently discovered in the
  environs of Astracan, and particularly among the Tartar steppes
                                                                       in

                         Astracan.         — Fompeia.— Milan.                                      69
in Russia.    They consist for the most part of mud walls, on
which are placed statues of stone coarsely carved.        They seem
to have been executed by a Mongol nation, if we are to judge
from the costume and workmanship.         One of the most remark
able monuments of this kind is to be found near .the village of
Prischiboriskoi, in the vicinity of Actuba: it is nearly a hun
dred and fifty feet in circumference, and three fathoms in height.
 The water used for the walls is a compound of lime, pounded
 charcoal and sand, and it is as hard as stone.      It seems as if
 this monument covered the grave of some prince; for there were
 found in      as well as in some other tombs in that country,
              it,
jewels, ornaments, armour, and vases.       The ruins of the great
 city of Madschari are in good preservation, and form three
groups.     The middle one      the most considerable
                                            is               consists               :    it
in elevated squares half      league in length.
                                       a          The foundations
of the ancient houses are easily distinguished      some buildings           ;
in stone are exceedingly well preserved,    but most   of them have
been constructed of brick     they are from four to nine toises in
                                       ;
height, and of pyramidal form.
                         a             Tombs and mausoleums are
found in various parts of these edifices the wall          so highly
                                                               :                    is
finished, and    such a good style, that
                    in                        scarcely  credible
                                                               itthat
                                                                    is
itcould have been done                 by
                            a nomade race.        may be reason              It
ably concluded that civilized nations have formerly inhabited
those countries.  These remains of antiquity will speedily dis
appear, without  doubt  for the present colonists are dilapidating
                                  ;
them for the purpose of building their houses.
  The excavations of Pompeia are pursued with the most unre                                         •
mitting zeal by the Neapolitan Government.   The most recent
discoveries     have been             three new magnificent                       tombs       adorned
with sculpture, and a hall which            supposed to have been the
                                                          is
court of justice, and which           decorated with a triple row of
                                                 is
columns. Bronze stoves were also found in the same 'place, of
a  most beautiful form, with a Faun and              Bacchus two feet    a
high   and exquisitely  formed.     Lastly,  a small  bronze Gladiator,
precisely similar to   that  which   has  been   already so much ad
mired, and which        in the attitude of supplicating life from the
                             is
pectators.     Ashort time ago, there was also found           beautiful                a
silver vase which seemed to have been used in religious worship                                    ;
it    covered with figures in relief, and resembles in form that
     is
of the Imperial Cabinet of France, which has been published by
Caylus and Dom Martin. There                 third vase quite similar in
                                                      is   a
the cabinet of the late Cardinal Borgia.
  There has been discovered in the Cabinet of Medals at Milan,
a Chinese work, published in 1750       order of the Emperor   by
                                                 E    3  Kien

70                            Tea-plant.— Bile.
Kien Long, containing drawings    of upwards of nine                      hundred
antique vases resembling those denominated Etruscan.                       Several
appear to be of very remote antiquity,
      M. Deschamps,     agriculturist and botanist of Lausanne, has
                       an
announced to the Society of Agriculture, Natural History, and
useful Arts, of Lyons, some interesting experiments on the culture
of the tea plant of Japan, and which convinced him that it will
succeed perfectly well in Europe, if care be taken to sow it in a
proper soil and climate.
   M. Deschamps accompanied his paper with directions to
gather and prepare the plant for use.         Having analysed      he          it,
discovered that   it  contained neither tannin nor gallic acid, prin
ciples which common tea contains, and to which           ascribed theis
property   of affecting  the nerves, and occasioning tremulous sen
sations.    The disagreeable taste which some persons find in the
tea    of
        Japan has been also corrected     M. Deschamps,
                                                 by            throw      by
ing boiling hot water over the leaves, pouring off in two or three
                                                               it
minutes, and then infusing them in boiling water in the usual way.
   M. Vogel has fis,certained        by
                                     several experiments that sulphur
exists in the bile and in the blood*.            After adverting to the
opinions of various chemists, M. Vogel thus describes his ex
periments         Being convinced that      the bile contained albumen
                                                if
'itmust contain sulphur also, which           a combustible body that
                                                 is
generally accompanies this substance,              introduced two kilo
                                                      I
grammes of fresh ox bile into a large glass retort           in the neck of
                                                                    ;
the retort placed some slips of white pap?r saturated with
            I                                                           so     a
lution of acetate of lead, adding        tubulated bell glass furnished
                                            a
with    acurved tube, which entered into         flask filled with
                                                      a               solura
tion of acetate of lead, and boiled the bile.           In    few minutes
                                                                     a
the paper at the neck of the retort became sensibly black, and
was covered with       ametallic coating like galena.         In the flask
containing the solution of acetate of lead, carbonate of lead was
at first formed, and    a little sulphuret of lead was afterwards de
posited.    The disengagement of carbonic acid, according to
M. Thenard, must be ascribed to             decomposition of the bile,
                                                a
pr rather to the carbonate of soda which            contains.
                                                      it
   " The blood also contains sulphur in the state of hydro-
sulphuret of ammonia, according to Proust.              We may convince
ourselves of this, even without distillation         being only necessary
                                                      ;   it
to cover    a  flr.sk containing blood with paper saturated with
acetate of lead, and expose        to temperature of 25 or 30 of the
                                   it     a
centigrade   thermometer      :in   few days the paper becomes blackt
                                    a
                *
                    Annates   de   Udndt,   tome lxxxvii.      p. 215.

                           Craniology   .                         71
and sulphuret of lead is formed.     The same simple experiment
will demonstrate that sulphur exists in the bile and in urine also.
The sulphur probably exists in the above substances in the state
of sulphuretted hydrogen, if this gas be not formed by the heat,
or rather by putrefaction.  It is also probable that sulphur exists
in all the animal humours: but I have not found it in cow's milk;
at least I did not discover its presence by operating on a- few
quarts of this fluid."
    MESSRS. GALL AND SPURZHEIM's SYSTEM OF CRANIOLOGY.
    Having noticed in a former number of the Philosophical
Magazine the Lectures of Doctor Spurzheim on the Physiology
of the Brain, it may be intcvesting to many of our readers to
have a short account of his proceedings in that science.        The
Lectures, which commenced on Monday the 11th instant, began
with a declaration of the general plan of the system, and -a
refutation of the several opinions of other philosophers respecting
the nature of the mind. He then proceeded to give an account of
the different organs of the brain, and the means of discovering
the relative degree of their development severally in different
individuals. In order to give the reader some idea of the general
outlines of the system, I must observe that the brain has always
been considered as the organ of thought ; that the present system
differs from the general notion of physiologists, in regarding the
fcravn .not as one organ, but as an assemblage of different organs
which have different functions ; and demonstrates that the mind
varies according to the relative degree of strength of these dif
ferent organs' in different people.      These organs (which are
upwards of thirty in number) are the material conditions of
distinct faculties.    The faculties are divided into, first, those
which belong to the intellect, or what the Germans call Gheist ;
and secondly, those of the sentiment and propensities, which they
call Gemuth : these latter are again divided into, first, sentiment,
and secondly, propensities. We have not room to enter further into
the detail of this system.    We shall therefore end by observing,
 that however unwilling the public may be to adopt any new
 system at first, and however intimidated by the numerous im
                                                                       '
 positions of pretenders to science ; every philosophic mind who
 will attentively study the present system will (we are assured by
 those who have studied  it) be amply repaid for his trouble — even
^should he remain unconvinced of its truth.        We hope to give
 more detail in our next.    Dr. Spurzheim has a very respectable
 class, andis  attended bv many of the most eminent and ingenious
 medical practitioners of the metropolis.
   The Bibliotheque Medicate, for August        1813, published   at
                                E   4                         Paris,

 72                        Medicine . — Ana hjses.
 Paris, contains an account of a. wonderful cure of obstructions iu
 the liver occasioned by biliary calccii.        The remedy employed
 consisted of a combination of ether with spirits of turpentine, the
 efficacy of which was first discovered and promulgated in the
 Gaaettede Sante for 1774.            it was afterwards tried with the
 most complete success by Guyton Morveau and several other
 French physicians.        In the case alluded to in the Bibliotheque
 Medicale, fifteen calculi, each of the size of an olive, were voided
 during six months that the above solvent was administered, and
 the patient is now perfectly recovered.          M. Guyton Morveau.
 recommends a combination of ether and the yolk of eggs, as
 giving less pain than that of ether and turpentine, when the
 patient suffers much in the expulsion of the biliary calculi.
    M. John, an eminent chemist of Berlin, has recently published
 an octavo volume containing accurate analyses of several mineral,
vegetable, and animal substances, of which the following speci
 mens, from their novelty, may be interesting to our readers :
    The juice of Euphorbia Cyparissias : — It is composed df 77
 parts of water ; an indeterminate quantity of tartaric acid ;
resin 13-80 ; gum 2-75 ; extractive 2-75 ; albumen l-37 ; caout
chouc 2'75 ; and a little fat oil ; the earthy parts of the euphorbia
are composed of carbonates, sulphates, and calcareous phosphate*-.
    The analysis of the Asclepias syriaca furnished resin 26-50;
an elastic substance 12-50; a glutinous vegetable substance 4;
extractive matter 4 ; tartaric acid and albumen 53.          The plant
when incinerated gave carbonate of potash, phosphate of lime,
phosphate of magnesia, silex, iron, and oxide of manganese.
    M. John afterwards analysed a scarlet elastic substance which
comes from the East, through Turkey, known by the name of
Caoutchouc of Thibet, This brilliant globulous matter is used
by the Russian ladies for bracelets, ear-rings, and rosaries*; and
it is merely a red oil insensibly indurated and oxidated, the
colouring matter of which is similar to that of gum lac.
    The fruit of the Rhus typhinum contains gallic acid from the
instant of its appearance : but, as it grows, acidulated tartrate of
lime is formed ; and as soon as the circulation of ti e juices has
ceased, acetic acid is formed; which seems to indicate that the
latter is produced by the decomposition of the tartaric acid.
    Analysis of Rocou. — This substance as it reaches the chemist
is already changed. by fermentation.          M. John procured some
seeds, from which he obtained the following results : an aroma,
an acid, resin combined with a colouring principle, vegetable
mucilage, fibrine, coloured extractive, and a peculiar matter which
   * In the t mker. t hops of London these red drops or Leads are erro-
Beously called Russian berries.' Edit.
                  ' >• •      '       '
                                                             resembles

                        Botany. — Vaccination,
resembles mucilage and extractive matter.          This analysis ex
plains the reason why an alkali is added to the rocou intended
for dyeing. The alkali combines with the resin, and forms a soap
soluble in water: the alkali acts also upon the colouring matter,
and renders it more lively.
   M. Wittman, of Vienna, has published an extensive work upon
Botany, and its application to rural ceconomy, with a disserta
tion on the terminology of plants, an account of the system of
Linnasus, and of the methods of Jussieu and Lamarck, and an
Appendix oa the Cryptogamia.
   A Botanical Garden has been established at Siniscropal in the
Crimea, principally with a view to collect all the indigenous
plants of Russia, and also to procure the most curious plants
from all parts of the world. One hundred acres have been inclosed
for the above purpose in the village of Niktreh, near Siniscropal.
   M.  Parmentier, the French chemist, and whose name has- so
frequently occurred in the pages of the Philosophical Magazine,
as an indefatigable contributor     to the Annoles de Chimie, died
at Paris on the 18th of December last.
   Several learned Societies in the departments of France have
offered prizes for the best memoirs, describing the most effica
cious preventives of choke or fire damp in coal- and other mines.
                            VACCINATION.
   By  an  Official Report  on  the State of Vaccination in Sweden,
printed by   order  of the House   of Commons, it appears that the
Swedish    Government,     attentive  to the inestimable advantage
which the Inoculation of the Cow Pox seemed to promise, directed
the College to examine Dr. Jenner's discovery with the greatest
accuracy, for which the proper means were immediately afforded;
and the College was ordered, after collecting the results, to
present its Report to the King.
   This Report, which fully confirmed the excellence of the Jen-
nerian discover)-, occasioned the salutary law which was first
enacted in 1803, by which Vaccination was established throughout
the kingdom ; and the College was commanded to promote its
adoption by all possible means. The King was pleased to appro
priate 900 dollars spec, banco to be divided into premiums,
which were to be distributed among such medical men as could
exhibit the greatest number of vaccinated persons.
   A particular regulation was made for the metropolis, (which
ought to be adopted in Britain,) imposing a fine of three dollars

 74                          Vaccination.
 on any one who should fail to announce to the medical officer of
 the district the appearance of the contagion of the Small Pox ;
 and in every such case the person infected was to be carried to
 the Small Pox Hospital, where every measure was adopted for
 his being properly nursed ; and the same precautions have been
 continued to the present time.
    It was long a question, Whether new-born children could be
 vaccinated with success, and whether the matter taken from them
 might be employed with as much security as if taken from adults ?
    This doubt has been altogether removed, and in the General
 Lying-in Hospital in Stockholm all the children are now vac
 cinated within nine days from the time of their birth ; so that,
 by means of this progressive vaccination, fresh matter remains
 constantly in existence.
    For the more effectual encouragement of the practice of Vac
cination, the King has been graciously pleased to appoint rewards
of two different kinds, pecuniary premiums and honorary medah.
The latter are distributed, commonly in silver, but sometimes in
 gold, to those who have particularly distinguished themselves. In
 all cases, those who have deserved rewards are humbly pointed
 out to the King by the College of Health ; and His Majesty has
 reserved to himself the right of assigning the proportions in which
these rewards shall be distributed.    It is also in the King-s name,
 and with a certain degree of publicity, that these marks of his
 approbation are bestowed.
    For the honour of the medical profession in Sweden, it must
 not be forgotten, that although Inoculation for the Small Pox
was one of the most lucrative branches of their private practice,
 and has been entirely superseded by the simple process of Vac
cination, no one individual of the profession has raised any
obstacles against the Cow Pox ; but every one has contributed
to its advancement, by giving advice, information and assistance,
 to the utmost of his ability.
    It may therefore be asserted, that the Small Pox, that equally
disgusting and destructive pestilence, which for many ages coir-
tinued annually to send out of the world an immense number of
young children, is now, through the influence of Dr. Jenner-s.
inestimable discovery, so perfectly extirpated in Sweden, that it
never can become epidemic, even if at any time, notwithstanding
all the orders and all the vigilance employed for its exclusion, the
infection should make its appearance.        Such, in the last twelve
years, has been the effect of the King-s wise and humane attention,
of the unanimity and disinterestedness of the medical profession,
of the patriotic zeal of the clergy, of the good examples so
promptly exhibited by the upper classes, and of the progress of
information and civilization in the lower,
                                                                   On

                             Aerostation.                            75
    On Friday, July 15, Mr. Sadler and his son ascended in a
balloon from Burlington Gardens, Piccadilly.         The following is-
the account drawn up by Mr.       Sadler   of his aerial excursion :
     " After clearing the east wing of Burlington House, the ascent
was slow, and it was only evidenced to me and my son by the
apparent receding of the objects, for it was not we who seemed
to rise, but every thing beneath us to retire.       In a few minutes
we were perpendicular     with  Leicester-square,   and our prospect
was grand ; the whole of London, and its magnificent buildings,
lay below us, with its surrounding fields, canals, and parks ; the
beautiful serpentine form of the river, with its rich shipping,
docks, and bridges.      We enjoyed this scenery for about fifteen
 minutes, and at a quarter before four o'clock entered a dense
 cloud, which completely shut us out from all sight of the earth.
At this time we could sensibly perceive the balloon to be rising.
When we had soared through this cloud, my son observed to me,
 that from the variegated colours reflected from the multitudinous
 congregation of vapours around us, and the effulgence of dif
 ferent lights, he could scarcely see to any great distance, nor
 make any distinct observations on the numberless forms around
 us, although, from the splendour of the balloon, I could easily
 discover that we had altered our course towards the south-east.
  From the intense cold, and a most violent pain in my ears,
  which I never experienced before, onr height could not be less,
  in my calculation, than five miles. The late Right Honourable
  W. Windham, when he ascended with me 30 years ago, experi
  enced a similar attack in his eyes, though we had not then
  ascended above two miles and a half ; but from my best obser
 vations, calculated upon former experiments, we must have been
 about that height.      My son soon afterwards found the same ef
 fect, though in a much slighter degree. By the various currents
 of air, and the renewed motion of the machine, I judged we were
  approaching the sea ; and requesting my son to open the valve,
  we perceived ourselves rapidly descending.       The clouds were so
  near the earth, that after lowering for a quarter of an hour, we
  heard the -lowing of cattle, but could not discover terra Jirma.
   Shortly after, the clouds opened beneath us, and displayed the
  variegated fields and the Thames, which informed us that we
  had altered our direction again, and were returning from the
  south-east to the north-west, over East Tilbury, &c.       We had a
   distinct view of the mouth of the River, Margate, Ramsgate,
   &c. with their coasts and shipping ; but the clouds collecting,
   and rolling over each other, again inclosed us. After once more
   descending bejow the clouds, we saw an inviting hay-field at a
  considerable distance, and opening the valve again, a sufficient
  quantity of gas escaped for us to reach the proposed spot ; and
                                                                  . after

  76                      Lectures. — Patents.
  after throwing out the grappling irons, we came to the ground
  easily. We remained quiet til! all the gas had escaped; by which
  time a number of spectators arrived, but not before we had se
  cured every thing properly."
     Dr. Pearson having delivered Three Courses of Lectures annu
  ally during the last 26 years on the Theory and Practice of
  Physic, on Therapeutics with the Materia Medica and Medi
  cal Botany, as well as on Chemistry, proposes in future to con
  fine himself to the department of the Practice of Physic with
  the Laws of the Animal (Economy. This Course will commence,
  as usual, in the first week of October, at No. 9, George-street,
  Hanover-square, at 9 in the Morning.
     The Lectures in the other departments, viz. On Therapeutics
  A-ith Materia Medica; on Clinical Practice with demonstrative
 Pathology ; on Medical Jurisprudence ; and a full Course of
  Chemistry, will be given at the Theatre in Windmill-street by
 the united labours of Dr. Roget, Dr. Harrison, and Dr. John
 Davy.
              LIST  OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
     To William Alfred Noble, of Riley Street, Chelsea, in the
 county of Middlesex, engineer, for his improved steam and fire
 engine, and a new means of connecting or joining steam or wa
 ter pipes together. — 23d March 1814. — 2 months.
     To Emanuel Heaton, of Birmingham, in the county of War
 wick, gun-finisher, for his improvements to the locks and breeches
 of fire-arms, by rendering the pans of locks, and communication
between the priming and loading of fire-arms, water proof. —
 2M March        2 months.    >
     To John Sparks Moline, of Leadenhall Street, London, lea
ther merchant, for his improved method of tanning leather. —
28th March. — 6 months.
     To Joseph du Dyer, of Boston, State of Massachusetts, one
of the United States, but now residing in the Adelphi, in the
county of Middlesex, merchant, who inconsequence of a com
munication made to him by a certain foreigner residing abroad,
is become possessed of a certain improvement in machinery for
manufacturing nails of various kinds. — 1st April. — 6 months.
     To George Smart, of Ordnance Wharf, Westminster Bridge,
in the county of Surry, timber merchant, for his improvements
in machinery for grinding corn and various other articles. —
1st April. — 2 months.
     To James Wood, of New Compton Street, in the county of
Middlesex;, musical instrument maker, for his improvement on
                                                                the

                  List of Patents for  new Inventions.             77
 the German flute, applicable also to the clarionet and bassoon. —
  1st April. — 2 months.
     To John U. Rastrick, of Bridgnorth, in the county of Salop,
 civil engineer, for his steam engine on a new and improved
 construction. — 1st April. — 6 months.
     To Isaac Mason, of Wellen Hall, in the county of Stafford,
 tea-tray maker, for his method of making stamped fronts for
 register stoves, ship stoves, and other stoves, fenders, tea-trays,
 and other trays, mouldings, and other articles in brass and other
 metals. — 7th April. — 6 months.
    To Joseph Roberts, of Brownlow Street, Drury Lane, blind-
 maker, for his apparatus intended to be used for map rollers
 and carriage blinds and other similar objects. — 7th April. —
 2 months.
    To William Whitfield, of Birmingham, in the county of War
wick, scale-beam maker, for certain improvements in carriages:
 — 9th April. — 6 months.
    To John Read, of the parish of Horsemonden, in the county
of Kent, gardener, for his means of raising -and conveying water,
steam, gas, or any other fluid, by pipes of purified earth. — 18th
April. — 2 months.
    To Lewis Gompertz, of Kennington Oval, in the county of
Surry, gentleman, for his improvements in carriages (and sub
stitutes for wheels for carriages) and other machines. — 27th
ApriL — 6 months.                                                4
    To David Grant, of Picket Street, Strand, soda-water manu
facturer, for his pump or apparatus for drawing off soda water,
and other liquids impregnated with fixed air. — 27th April. — -
2 months.
    To John Bernard Lcgier, of Sackville Street, Dublin, pro
fessor of music, and music -seller, for his apparatus for facilitat
ing the acquirement of proper execution on the piano forte. —
28th April.— (5 months.
    To Joseph Price, of Gateshead, in the county of Durham,
glass-maker, for his methods of making glass. — 5th May. — 2
months.
    To John Vancouver, of Ickenham, in the county of Middle
sex, esq. for his method of painting walls of apartments and
other surfaces by the preparation, use, and application of certain
materials for that purpose. — 17th May. — 15 months.
    To Thomas Abree Pickerings of Hackney Terrace, Hackney,
gentleman, for his method for preventing losses, and for the se
curity of remittances (containing bank notes, post bills, country
bankers' or other notes or bills payable to bearer in London,
or the country)      coaches, so frequently occurring. — 21st May.
— 6 months.
                                                                 Ta

78               Meteorological Observations
   To William Moult, of Bedford Square, in the county of Mid-
desex, for his improved     method    of acting upon machinery.    —
23d May. — 6 months.
   To William Neville, of Birmingham, in the county of War-             _
wick, merchant,     and coach -founder, for his method of making
hurdles, gates, palisades, virandas, balustradt-s, stair-case rails,
espalier frames, and various other articles. — 26th May. — G mo.
   To William Sellars, of Kemsey Elms, in the county of Wor
cester, engineer, for his method of spinning and laying of ropes,
twine, line, thread, mohair, wool, cotton, and silk, by ma
chinery. — 7th June. —2 months.
   To George Heywood, of Blackmoor Iron Works, near Stow-
bridge, in the parish of Kingswiuford, in the county of Stafford,
ironmonger, for his improved plan or method of turning rolls,
and of rolling gun and pistol barrels previous to welding — 7th
June. — 6 months.
   To John Stubbs Jorden, of Birmingham, in the county of
Warwick, copper-sash manufacturer, for his improved method
of making the lights, and also other improvements in the con
struction of horticultural buildings. — 7 th June. — 2 months.
   To Grant Preston, of Burr Street, London Dock, in the
county of Middlesex, brazier, for his concave cabin stoves. —
 7th June.
   To John Buxton, of Great Pearl Street, Spital Fields, in       the.'
 county of Middlesex, cotton manufacturer, for his improved
method of twisting and laying cotton, silk, and various other
articles. — 7th June.— 6   months.
Meteorological Obsertialions made at Clapton in Hackney from
             the 21« of June to the 2U< of July 1814.
   June   21.— Cloudy, with a little rain.
   June   22. — The same sort of weather.
   June   23. — Wind still northerly.    Weather variable.
   June   24. — Cool and cloudy for the most part; with rain.
   June   25.— Cool, cloudy day; fine and warmer evening. N.
   June 26. — Cold wind and showers from N.
   June 27. — Fair day, but much cloud. N.
   June 28. — Fine warm day. Thermometer 73° in shade^.at
 2 P.M.
   June 29. — Thermometer 76°. Fine warm day.
   June 30. — Much cumulostratus of late. Thermometer to
day 75°, and fair.
   July   1. — Cooler in the morning; very fine evening.
   July   2. — Fair and warm day; abundance of cirrus, some
times like a lonj diverging feather ; in other places in angular
                                                            flexures,

                             made al Clapton.                         79
flejures, or in filiform bands, with cumulus below.         In the even
ing cumulostratus.        Fine moonlight night.
    July 3. — Fine warm day. Thermometer 78°.                Cirrus and
eumulus prevailed.
    July 4. — Warm day. Cumulus, cirrus, and cumulostratus .
Towards evening the clouds increased, and by midnight a fine
and gentle rain came down, with a mild atmosphere.
    July 5. — Fine warm day. Thermometer 78°. Cirri, tumuli,
airrostrati, and cumuhstrati.        Fine evening.
    July   6. —  Fine and  clear at sunrise ; about half after five a
breeze from SW. brought a white mist, which was thickest
above, and quite obscured the sky.          It cleared off, and the day
became warm and fair, with cumuli.             Thermometer about the
same as yesterday.        Fine evening, with some brilliant meteors
at night.
    July   7  to the 18th, weather generally warm, and with occa
sional rains, which produced a fruitful vegetation.
    July 19.—Fair day; wind westerly; various clouds and
nimbi.
    July 20. — Cloudy and thick early. Warm day and fair ;
 much cumulostratus, &c.
    July 21. — Warm morning ; a gale afternoon; various clouds,
 as in warm weather.
     A friend of mine*, in discoursing with me lately on physio
logical subjects, mentioned the occurrence of increased irrita
bility in persons at certain periods, in such a manner as would
 lead one to suspect that there were general and periodical causes
 of disorder, which more or less affected most people. I have
frequently noticed this circumstance myself, and believe it to be
 the consequence of a state of the atmosphere, the peculiaritiet
 of which are at present little known. The particular kind and
 arrangement of the clouds seem to me to be one indication of
 this state of the air. As I have before discoursed largely on this
 circumstance, I need only recall the attention of your readers to
 the subject ; as it is only by a multiplicity of. observations that
 any thing certain in natural philosophy and physiology can be
 determined.
          Clapton,
      July  21, 1814.                              Thomas     Forster.
    * Dr.
           Spurzheim, (the colleague of Dr. Gall of Vienna,) who is now
giving in London a Course of Lectures on the Physiology of the Braia.
                                                               MKTBORO-

SO                                                 Meteorology.
                             meteorological table,
                          By Mr. Cary, of the Strand,
                                                  For July 1814.
                         Thermometer.
                                                                              Degrcesof
                                                           Height of                         Dry
                                                                                                   Hygrometer.
 Days of
                    o'Clock,
                                                           the Uarom.                                                   Weather.
                               Morning.
                                          Noon.
 Month.                                                                             by
                                                                              ness      Leslie's
                                                            inches.
                                                  5   55
                   8
June       27        52                   57      56        30-00                 37                             Cloudy
           28        57                   66      57        29-90                 46                             Fair
           29       60                    69      62          •04                67                              Fair
           30       62                    69      64          -97                80                              Fair
July       l        57                    66      54          -90                66                              Fair
                    57                    66      54          -95                 70                             Fair
           4 3 2
              60                          76      58       30-02                 64                              Fair
              63                          74      62          -04                57                              Fair
       '
              62                          78      64          •07                60                              Fair
           6 5
              62                          74      66          -08                62                              Fair
            7 63                          76      62       2998                  66                              Fair
           8  63                          66      64         -90                      0                          Rain
           9  64                          66      63          -86                56                              Showery
           10 63                          66      66          -89                     0                          Rain
           11 64                          71      60          -98                64                              Fair
           19 62                          72      60       30- 15                50                              Fair
           13 60                          68      56           05                 55                             Fair
           14 57                          63      57       29-85                  36                             Cloudy
           15 56                          66      57          •75                 40                             Showery
           16 57                          63      54          -so                     0                          Rain
           17 54                          66      56          -96                41                              Fair'
           18        57                   68      58          -97                 36                             Showery
           19        58                   68      58          -75                 36                             Showery
           SO        60                   69      60          •70                45                              Fair
           SI        62                   70      62          •81                 58                             Fair
           22        63                   74      63          -95                 60                             Fair
           83        63                   75      64        30 20                 65                             Fair
           24        68                   77      63          -14                 71                             Fair
           85        65                   78      66        29-87                 70                             Fair
           86        66                   80      67          •90                 86                             Fair
                   N. B. The Barometer-s height                       is   taken at one o-clocfc»

                               [-81      ]
XIV.    Some Account    of the Life and Writings of Condorcet.
                         By M. Lacroix*.
J  ean Antoine      Nicolas Caritat, Marquis         de   Condorcet,
one of the most distinguished philosophers of the eighteenth
century, commenced the study of the mathematics with very
great success, never lost sight of them, hut attached himself
principally to the diffusion of knowledge in general, and to the
discussion of the most important subjects in social oeconomy.
His father, descended from an ancient family in the Venaissin,
resided in the Castle of Ribemont in Picardy.         Here Condorcet
was born on the 17th of September 1743, and came in 1758 to
study philosophy at the college of Navarre : there he sustained a
thesis in mathematics, in presence of Clairaut, D-Alembert, and
Fontaine, who judged him worthy of one day taking his place
among them.       In 1 762 he settled at Paris, with his old pro
fessor of philosophy Giraud de Keroudou, in order to give him
self up entirely to the mathematics.        Soon afterwards he con
nected   himself   with  Fontaine,   a  geometrician endowed, with
great sagacity, but whose singular character and strange habits
had prevented his progress.        It was the peculiar doctrine of
Fontaine that Condorcet proposed to develop and extend in his
Essay on the Integral Calculus, the first of his works j but the
Theory of the Equations of Condition, with which he commenced
at the age of twenty, gave hini a very distinguished rank, since
we there find the demonstration of several important theorems,
which Euler had met with by chance only, and the direct proof
                                                     *
of which he regarded as being very difficult.          The remainder
of this work, containing only general ideas, which require to be
fixed and even proved by applications, announced much sagacity,
and a profound knowledge of his subject, but left too much to
be done in the details to enable us to derive any advantage
from it.    He afterwards treated in the same spirit the Problem
of the Three Bodies, of which he was the first to give equations
at once general and completely symmetrical ; but he did not
stop to particularize them, in order to render them accessible to
the methods of approximation, and contented himself with de
veloping the spirit of these methods, and the precautions which
their use requires :  "  My object (he says) is to give general prin
ciples, without entering into details which should facilitate to
others routes which I have not the courage to pursue."             These
words,  which  escaped him,   would  seem  to indicate  a sort  of scien
tific egotism : but such an interpretation      would   be quite unfair
so far as Condorcet is concerned, who desired nothing so much
           * Magosin Encyclojedique for November   1813, p. 54.
Vol. 44. No. 196. August 1S14.                  F                      as

82     So7ne Account   of the Life and Writings of Condorcet.
as   the advancement of the sciences.        The above passage-}*
merely   the frank  expression  of the  impatience of a young man,
whose ardent spirit was only to he satisfied with the contemplation
of a grand whole.      He subsequently ascertained that the state of
science required another course.       " Glory (he observes), which
was formerly the prize of genius alone, can nowadays be only
the prize of genius and labour united."
    Judging severely of his first writings, which he had collected
under the modest title of " Attempts at Analysis," he com
posed in his more mature age a new Treatise, in which the
differential calculus and the integral calculus, embraced in
the aggregate, were developed and applied, and in which
the hypothesis of infinite simals was replaced by new, very
exact and very ingenious considerations.       The printing of this
work, begun in 1786, was interrupted at the sixteenth sheet.
The manuscript however was not lost ; and it is a drawback upon
the memory of Condorcet as well as upon science, that it ha*
not been published; for it appears that he bestowed great atten
tion upon it. In order to judge him with equity as to his other
mathematical writings, we ought rather to consider what he has
shown himself capable of doing than what he has done.        Never
theless, if we confme ourselves to the memoirs which he pub
lished in the Academical Collections of Paris, Turin, and Peters-
burgh, and which chiefly concern the application of the series
to the resolution of every kind of differential equation, we shall
find him always at the head of the most recent discoveries and
of the most difficult theories, throwing out useful observation's
as to every thing which occupied the first geometricians of hia
time, pointing out to their inquiries new combinations, and pre
senting remarks worthy of their attention.      Such is the employ
ment of the equations with finite differences for determining the
arbitrary functions contained in the integrals of the partial dif
ferential equations : such also is the integration of the equations
with mixed differences, which he was the first to consider.       In
 1778 he shared a prize from the Academy of Berlin, on the
theory of comets : at the end of some experiments on the re
sistance of fluids, made in conjunction with Bossut and D'Alem-
bert, he gave formulae for deducing the laws of phaenomena from
observations : lastly, he inserted some articles on the subject of
transcendent mathematics in the supplements of both the old
and new Encyclopaedia.
    The merit of these labours will appear still greater, when we
eonsider that they were merely accessories in the career into
which Condorcet was led by the desire of contributing in the
most efficacious manner to the general improvement of the hu
man mind. Elected a member of the Academy in 1769, and
afterwards in 1771 assistant secretary to Grand-Jean de Fouchy,

     Some Account     of the Life    and   Writings of Condorcet.       83
he endea\'Oured   in the Sloges which issued from his pen, to pro
mulgate those reflections of a general interest, which have not
only for their object to diminish the dryness of the matter, but
to form the public opinion as to every thing which might have
a tendency to improve the state of society.      In these produc
tions we may see that philosophic spirit which Condorcet had
imbibed from the writings of Voltaire, and the friendship of
 D'Alembert.
   While thus cultivating   a talent for composition,   he seized upon
the species   of magistracy which must without fail       be exercised
  in the republic of letters by a learned man who acts as a kind
  of interpreter to the elite of the learned in an enlightened
  country, when he unites the charms of style and clearness of
  detail to grandeur of views, a magistracy which had been va
  cant since the retreat of Fontenelle from public life.       The ta
  lents of these two celebrated men differ like the spirit of the
 several eeras at which they entered upon public life.           When
 Fontenelle undertook the History of the Academy- the cultiva
 tion of the sciences was still little diffused : fearing therefore to
 embark in details which would have been interesting to a small
 number of auditors, he dissembled under ingenious comparisons
 rather than elucidated the difficulties of the subject.     To make
 friends every where to the new doctrines, by enabling the mass
 of the people to catch at certain points, to perceive in them
 some shade of the useful or agreeable, and to adorn their con
 versation with some brilliant sallies, these were his objects.     He
 proposed    also gradually to sap   those  prejudices from which   his
 own excellent understanding had freed and guarded him ; but his
 prudence and the period at which he lived permitted him to
make indirect attacks only. When the Academy intrusted the
office of Secretary to Condorcet, things were greatly altered.
 The progress of education had considerably increased the num
ber of persons who were acquainted with the sciences : he could
 therefore explain the new discoveries in language which united
elegance with precision.      On the other hand, tl»e love of know
ledge, or at least the desire of showing      it,had become as    were
                                                                   it
the national spirit, and public opinion was powerful enough to
protect the writer who knew how to express useful truths in an
eloquent manner.       Nothing, therefore, prevented these truths
being clearly developed as often as occasion presented             and
                                                                   ;
 Condorcet possessed an energy of character which would not
allow any thing to escape him this was to him, as
                                 :                       it   to every
                                                              is
•friend of humanity, an imperious duty, as he has most eloquently
depicted at the commencement of his khge cn Chancellor de
l'Hdpital.
                            ,     F2                                    All

84     Some Account    of I he Life and Writings  of Condorcet.
    All the eloges which he composed have, as far as the subject
would allow, two kinds of merit very remarkable : in the first
place we find perfect analyses of the labours of the personage
praised, prepared by summaries in which the objects ami the
progress of the sciences are rendered of easy attainment without
any want of precision.        Afterwards we find criticisms stamped
with the authority of reason, at least in the eyes of those who
knew how to defend themselves from the exaggerations of enthu
siasm as well as from the spirit of detraction ; and he loses no
opportunity of raising his voice with ardour, and yet with de
 cency, against the abuses and prejudices which attend the sub
ject undar discussion.        In praising Haller, Linnaeus, Daniel
 Bernoulli, Vaucanson, Euler, D'Alcmbert, Bergman, Buffon,
 and Franklin^ it was necessary that he should review all the
sciences, and give an account of the greatest discoveries of the
 age: he had also occasion to speak of the honorary academi
 cians, members chosen from among the great men in place. He
 knew how to mingle with their eloge judicious observations on
 their operations, and on the perfectibility of the social edifice :
 but he loved truth too much to consent to palliate the vices of
 an oppressive minister, and he preserved the most profound si
 lence with respect to Vrilliere, the odious dispenser of the lettres
 de cachet under the reign of Louis XV.          As Secretary to the
 French Academy, D'Alembert has also made eloges which have
 merited and obtained reputation : but those of Condorcet are
 stronger in point of facts, while the style is graver and better
 supported | and in the eloge of his predecessor, he has traced
 the duties which he imposed upon himself, and the course which
                                                                   • •
 he proposed to hold.
     His mind, constantly occupied with the great interests of
 truth and society, could no longer descend to the fatiguing and
 barren calculations inseparable from the researches into pure
 mathematics.      In correspondence with Voltaire, and intimately
 connected with D'Alembert, he necessarily took the greater part
 in philosophical discussions, the greater were his means of obtain
 ing success, by adding to the solidity of a judgement matured
 in the most abstract subjects, a great facility of expressing his
  ideas : thus we find him, in the " Letter from a Theologian to
 the Author of the Three Centuries," repelling in a happy strain
  of irony the ridiculous assertions of Sabathier de Castres.
     Tired of hearing the " Thoughts of Pascal" abused without
  restriction, Voltaire had- already hazarded upon this book, a
  monument at once of the weakness and strength of the human
  mind, some very sagacious and well formed reflections : never
  theless, but little more was as yet known as to the object qf
                                                                those

      Some Account    of the Life  and Writings    of Condorcet.    85
those thoughts, than what was divulged by the first editors.
 Pere Desmoids repaired in a great measure their omissions : but
all these pieces, thrown together almost as if by chance, losing
much. of their value, Condorcet knew how to class them in an
order which, if it was not exactly that which the author himself
would have followed, is at least very luminous ; and since it had
been permitted to the followers of Pascal to make a choice con
formable to their own opinions among his Thoughts, it also be
longed to a philosopher to present only those which agreed with
 his plan, in using as it were such pieces as were precisely in
 unison with the excellent tloge of their author which Condorcet
 composed.       Some essential differences between various editions
 of some of the Thoughts, and that given by Condorcet, brought
 upon him an accusation of infidelity ; but he has been com
pletely exculpated by M. Renouard in his excellent edition of
 the Thoughts of Pascal, and such a crime would have greatly
 astonished those who knew the virtues and prudence of Condorcet.
     Political oeeonomy, which its importance ranks among the
highest branches of human knowledge, which requires aid from
 almost all the rest, and can only be founded upon the most
 wholesome morality, frequently occurred to the meditations of
 Condorcet ; it interested him still more during the administra
 tion of his friend Turgot, whose intentions were so pure, and
 whose conduct was so upright, as to entitle him to the appellation
 of the most honourable man of his age. The fruit of this inti
 macy was a Life of Turgot, in which Condorcet analysed the
 operations of this statesman.         It is not enough to say that
 Condorcet was an oeconomist:        but   he was none of those who
 fellow the footsteps of any master, for he acted upon his own
 opinions : and on this account our criminal laws, so long re
 proached for their barbarity, and our jurisprudence, which was
 go imperfect, were the subjects of various essays dictated by his
 philanthropy.
     Questions connected with administration and with judiciary
  proceedings, like every thing which depends upon facts too com
  plicated for the discovery of their causes, and for the attainment
  of their effects, cannot in general be resolved but according to
  probabilities.   In the language of common life, we thus deno
  minate the perceptions which our moral habitudes produce in
  our minds, or the slight and inexact appreciations which we
  make in conformity to those habitudes, and upon the particular
  facts which chance brings to our knowledge : but with respect
  to the geometrician, probabilities ought to be susceptible of
  measurement, or they are nothing.         He ascends to the primitive
  or independent facts, and calculates their number if that be pos
  sible ; or father he sets out from precise observations, and there
                                   F 3                            finds

86   Some Account   of   the   Life and Writings of Condorcet.
finds data for assigning by calculation the probability of every
cause of which the aggregate facts may be the result.    Condorcet
embraced with ardour this kind of speculation, which offered food!
for his passion for the interests of society; and he brought to his
aid the mathematics, the cultivation of which he had carried
too far not to experience the necessity of always resorting to
them. Such were the origin and object of several memoirs which
he read to the Academy of Sciences, and of his " Essay on the
Probability of the Decisions given by Plurality of Voices," which
comprehends the judgements and elections, the form of the
tribunals, and the minutiae of all deliberative assemblies.    The
questions treated in this work are of incontrovertible importance:
 their connexion is very methodical ; perhaps the solutions are
 not sufficiently profound, and geometricians might desire more
elegant methods of calculation ; but the preliminary discourse,
 which is the analysis of the entire work, is at the same time an
 excellent treatise on philosophy.     While upon this subject, let
us not omit the plan of his Social Mathematics, a table equally
 complete as it is luminous of the titles of all the chapters-'of a
 work embracing in the greatest detail the application of the
 mathematics to the universality of the objects of social oeeo-
 nomy.    The execution of this plan would from its utility do
 honour to the accurate inquirer who should take charge of        it,
 particularly
            if   he knew how to add perspicuity to precision, and
                                                               -
 disdained   the   trappings of analysis wherever they were not
strictly necessary.
    Faithful to the views of utility which guided him in all his
writings, Condorcet took for the subject of his discourse at his
reception into the Academy       in 17S2, the advantages which the
union of the moral     and   physical sciences might produce to so
ciety.    Keeping pace with the spirit of the age in which he
lived, he took part in the revolution: those who knew him best,
never imagined that he embarked in        it from motives of ambi
tion ;  for they knew that, under the ancient regime, he was
 strongly attached to his personal independence   ;   but
                                                        if    the per
 spective  of the ameliorations  which philosophy ought to produce
•on society warmed so many honourable minds in the early period
of the revolution, could that effect be wanting in      a    man who
 concealed under a calm exterior an energy of mind so striking
 that his friends compared him to     a volcano covered ivit/t snow
                                                                  ?
 His work on the Provincial Assemblies, published in 1788, had
 in view to pave the way for those reforms of which the admini
 stration of the kingdom appeared to him to be then susceptible    :
 speedily the rapid succession of events and the conflict of opi
 nions made him sensible of the possibility of carrying these re
 forms further.    He attached himself at first to the constitution
                                                                  of

       Some Account     of the Life  and Writings  of Ceadorcet.   97
of 91, and published several political writings which caused
him to be appointed one of the deputation from Paris to the
 Legislative Assembly on the 1st of October 1791 . Afterwards
 as deputy from the department of the Aisne, he voted generally
with the members who were called Girondists.
     Condorcet might perhaps be reproached with having en
 deavoured to temporize with the anarchists : nevertheless, by
watching his progress, and examining his discourses, we soon
 discover motives more than excusable for this conduct, which
 was at most but a political error flowing from his moderation
 and perseverance.       He did not wish to quarrel with the oppositt
 party,   because  it could  boast of misguided men, who might he
 brought    back  to  reason  by prudent treatment ; and he feared
 lest, by violently stopping the revolution, the force of the imr
 pulse might throw the public spirit too much behind.            " He
 wished rather," he used to say,      " to try to moderate them than
 to embroil himself with them." " 1 wish that every man would
 occupy himself a little less with hi? own interests, and a little
 more with those of the public."
     Being soon convinced of the inutility of his efforts, he ab
sented himself from the debates in the Convention, and wa6 not
 at first among the number of the members proscribed on the 3 1st
 of May; but in a letter signed by the great majority of the de
 puties of his department, he called down the indignation of his con
 stituents on the atlempt which they alleged he had made against
 the national representation : he did not disguise his sentiments
 on the shadow of a consitution drawn up in 1793 by the orders
 of Robespierre ; and on the denunciation made by Chabot of
 Condorcet-s observations, the Convention ordered that he should
 be accused at the bar: on the 3d of October 1793 a decree of
 accusation was passed, and soon afterwards he was put hors la Ini.
     Compelled to eonceal himself, he found an asylum for a long
 time in the house of a generous female, who had not hesitated
 to exjMise her life in order to save that of Condorcet, whom
 she did not then know : but when they began to pey domiciliary
 visits, " T must leave you," he said to her, " you are kors fa
 lei." " But we are not," she replied, " beyond the pale of hu
 manity." The danger becoming still more urgent, he tried to
 leave Paris in March 1 794 : he proposed to go to Fontenai ;
 but when he presented himself at the door of the person who
 was to receive him, she was not at home, and he was con
 strained to pass two nights in the open air, one night concealed
 in a quarry, and the other under a tree in the fields.     Worn out
 with fatigue and hunger, and grievously hurt in his feet, he en
 tered an ale-house at Clamard-sous-Meudon.           Struck with his
 uncouth appearance, a member of the revolutionary committee
                                    F4                              of

88   Some Account         of the Life        and Writings         of Condorcet.
of the place thought him       a suspicious character, and took him
before the committee, who sent him the/same evening to the
prison of Bourg-la-Reine.         When the revolutionary assassins
came to interrogate him next day (28th of March 1794) he was
no more.      Sensible that inevitable death awaited him, he made
use of the poison which he constantly carried about his person,
to avoid the catastrophe which was prepared for him by the
ferocious enemies of reason and humanity.
    In those trying times, which would have entirely depressed or
exasperated minds less firm, or even more occupied with their
personal interest, he developed the noblest character : every mo
ment was employed with thinking en the welfare of the human
race, and he occupied himself in the improvement of the sciences,
and the instruction of youth, with a zeal, a ipildness of expression,
and a firmness of principle, of which there are very few examples.
Other men of letters embraced the revolution with as much
warmth, and only changed their opinion when it attacked them;
but then they spoke rather from sentiment than from the im
pulse of reason.     When we read " The Sketch of a historical
Picture of the Progress of the human Mind," we find nothing
but the most active benevolence, and the most sincere wishes for
the happiness of mankind.        This work, in my opinion, is one of
thoe whose perusal is indispensable at the conclusion of every
course of education, in order to give connection to the various
studies of which it consists.       Some pages of the last section,
being those in which the author seems to assign to the duration
of human life an indefmite extent, as a consequence of the per
fection of the human race, have been fiercely attacked by the
critics : but this exaggerated conclusion, this spot in the sun's
 disk, if we may so call           it,
                                what        in comparison with the
                                              is   it
 merit of the rest       the work, which
                          of                    chef-d'oeuvre of pre
                                                        is   a
 cision, learning and genius         While, deprived of all literary
                                         ?
 resources, Condorcet drew upon his memory alone for the ma
 terials of this fmished performance, he composed         Treatise on a
 Arithmetic, not less remarkable of its kind. Fearing that he
 might not see his daughter again, he traced out for her a plan
 of conduct the wisest and most sensible which goodness and
 philosophy combined could have dictated.        At this period even
 he made verses for his benefactress, and addressed to his wife an
 epistle, in which  isthe following couplet             :
          lis m'ont   die      " Choisis   d'etre oppressenr on victime   :"
          J'etritaassai   le :   raalheur, et leur taissai   le
                                                            crime.
   This is not the occasion for discussing the great political
                                                               ques
tions which occupied the last days of Condorcet's life. We refer
to the complete edition of his works, Such readers as have not
                                                                               blamed

     Some Account   of the Life   and Writings   of Condorcet.   89
blamed indiscriminately every thing which took place at a cer
tain period, and every thing which certain persons have written,
and who think, besides, that philosophers ought to be awarded
the right of separating their theories from the abuses to which
they are subject, in the sanie way as the truly religious have a
right to distinguish between the precepts of the gospel and the
crimes of fanaticism.      They will there fmd a great number of
things which the rational part of the community in all ages
ought to approve ; and they will feel with the author, that "to
say we are without affections and without prejudices in the
midst of the greatest interests which can agitate mankind, is
 to boast of a virtue which human nature can never attain, it is to
 confess oneself either indifferent or a hypocrite."
     If some of his political opinions seem to have varied with
circumstances, his philosophy always remained the same ; and
although he has not drawn up a special Treatise, it would be
possible by collecting the results scattered over his various writ
 ings, particularly in his Life of Voltaire, in the notes with which
 he has enriched the complete edition of the works of that great
 man, and in his reports upon public education presented to the
  Convention ; it might be possible, I say, to compose a Syllabus
 which should embrace the most important questions in meta
 physics and morals.     The foundation of this philosophy is scep
 ticism ; but a graduated scepticism, which weighing with ex
  actness the various probabilities of our opinions, shows the true
  bases upon which they rest, and how these probabilities,        in
  creasing  with  the repetition  of observations  and the frequency
of phaenomena, may approach certainty indefinitely in every
thing connected with the knowledge and determinations truly
essential to our existence and preservation.
    In order to make known the character of Condorcet, and
even in some measure his exterior deportment, which gives some
idea of  it,
           we shall quote  a passage from the Correspondence of
Grimm (tome ii. p. 430, first edition). " He         is   very great
                                                          a
genius, full of reason and philosophy     on his visage reside calm
                                           ;
ness and tranquillity ;  goodness sparkles in his eyes.    He would
be the worst man in the world,        he was not an honest man
                                      if                          ;
for he would deceive every body       by
                                       his physiognomy, which an
nounces the gentlest and most beneficent qualities.          But his
character does not belie his figure, and his friends call him, par
excellence, the good Condorcet.      There reigns throughout his
 eloges a  great  deal  of mind  with   much simplicity."     To the
 above we may add, that timid and even much embarrassed in a
numerous circle, he displayed     amild and sprightly turn among
his friends, and those whom he admitted to be familiar with
 him. He seemed completely to forget the advantages given

90    Some Account    of the Life and Writings of Condorcet.
him by the high consideration which he had so justly acquired
by his talents and success: he knew how to descend to the level
of those who were merely entering upon those studies in which
he excelled.   He never endeavoured to force his opinions upon
persons whom the superiority of his talents or the influence of
his character rendered his inferiors.
               "
                                            I
                                         " may deceive myself,"
he observed:     and  if lam wrong, my friends must not conceal
it from myself    or from others." In patronizing young men,
he did not merely give them the advantage of his protection, he
acrved them with zeal ; and by means of a simple and modest
tone of voice, a civility truly affectionate, by the pleasure and
instruction which he blended in his familiar intercourse, he in
spired them with a gratitude as gentle as it was sincere, and an
attachment as durable as it was respectful.
    We have already mentioned the friendship conceived for him
bv Turgot and D'Alembert : the latter made him one of his
testamentary executors.      He had many other friends equally
celebrated for their talents and their virtues : among these was
the Duke de la Rochefoucauld,      and his respectable mother the
Duchess d'Enville.      Their attachment for Condorcet was so
much the subject of animadversion at the commencement of the
revolution, by those who surrounded them, that they gave up
his acquaintance with regret, yielding rather to importunate and
unremitting solicitations than to their own conviction.      About
this period, when men and even things were liable every moment
to take opposite qualities, it was no longer possible to establish
a character on the public voice.     Condorcet, like all those who
made a figure in this dreadful crisis, was subjected to the most
contradictory opinions ; but there remained to him, among men
of intelligence and virtue, some faithful friends, who preserved
for his memory a just respect, which will not be belied by an
examination of facts, if it is directed bv that spirit of modera
tion and impartiality which knows how to make allowances in
every series of events for the caprices of fortune, and the errors
which naturally occur in the wisest political combinations.
    The character of Condorcet is impressed in the forms of his
style. The enemy of all declamation, he rarely quits the tone of
calm discussion : we ought not therefore to expect from his
writings grand displays of eloquence, but always accuracy, fre
quently elevation, and also profound research. We might re
proach him with negligence, which he would have no doubt
 corrected, if he had attached more importance to the form of
 his writings, which were almost always produced on the spur
of unforeseen occasions.      He is also accused of being occa
 sionally obscure ; and it must be confessed, that the man who
could in his literary productions explain abstract propositions,
                                                               and

         Atmospherical Phcenomena in the River St. Ldwrence.     91
 and the most various technical details of science, with clearness,
 is not the same person when he writes upon the pure mathe
 matics.     Something similar has happened to D'Alembert ; and
 perhaps both may be excused on the ground that profound geo
 metricians like them, when writing on a science so familiar to
 themselves, have no idea of submitting to that plainness of lan
 guage which the universality of readers requires.     The manner
 in which Condorcet expresses himself as to style in the preface
 to his Assemblies Provinciates proves fclearlv that he knew what
 was wanting in this respect, and how it was to be attained.
  Nevertheless it cannot be denied that, by dwelling too much on
 abstract propositions, as if he hs.d wished to give proofs of his
Jinesse, his ideas sometimes lead as it were into a labyrinth,
  and to conclusions which are a little strange : but, once for all,
  these were mere negligences, which did not prevent Condorcet,
 who was endowed with the most fortunate qualities for uniting
  the culture of the sciences to that of letters, and spreading the
  charm of the former over the latter, from almost always making
 a splendid and useful application of his diversified talents.
      The name of Condorcet was enrolled in the chief academies
  of Europe : he enjoyed a moderate affluence from the inherit
  ance left him by his uncle, the Bishop of Lisieux : he occupied
  the place of inspector of the mint; but he resigned it during the
  second administration of Necker, whose financial opinions were
  directly opposed to those of Turgot and his friends.       In 1786
  Condorcet married Mademoiselle Sophie de Grouchy, by whom
  he had one daughter.
  XV. Account of      some singular atmospherical    Pha-nomena    in,
       the River St. Lawrence in the Beginning of July 1814.
                           To  Mr! Tilhch.
           I
  ,*\ir, — send for insertion in your excellent Journal the follow
  ing narrative, drawn up by a British officer of engineers, of some
  remarkable occurrences in his passage from Cork to Quebec.
  Your philosophical readers will not fail to notice the coincidence
  between the phaenomena described below, and those which were
  observed at St. Vincent's and other islands of the West Indies
  upwards of a year ago.      I am, &c.
                                              A Correspondent.
  " Remarks     on  hoard Ship in the River St. Lawrence, distant
      about 20   Miles from the Buy of Seven Islands        above the
      Island of Aitticosti, 3d  July 1814.
      "Yesterday morning at     6 A.M. the weather dark and cloudy,
                                                                 with

92      Atmospherical Phcenomenu in     the River St. Lawrence.
a few drops  of rain falling ; winds high and variable, chiefly from
the eastward, and through the day carrying all sail.        The sails
however of very little use, from a very heavy swell of the sea from
the westward, which rendered the pitching of the ship very great,
and nearly endangered the carrying away the masts and yards ;
towards evening the swell abating ; during the day the clouds
appeared to be coming with great rapidity from the northward.
Horizon and atmosphere thick and hazy ; at night the dark
ness excessive, and the masts and rigging scarcely visible from
deck. About 9 P.M. a sort of dust or ashes commenced falling,
and continued during the night.          Towards the morning the
whole atmosphere appeared red and fiery to a wonderful degree,
and the moon then at the full not visible, and the appearance
through the cabin windows and crystal lights on the deck sin
gular in the extreme, as if surrounded by a mass of fire.         The
sea sparkling much, and in a manner not usual in these latitudes.
    " At half past seven in the morning, candles lighted in the ca
bin, and the hour by a watch at nine, scarcely visible ; the flame
of the candle burning of a bright blueish-white colour ; and the
fire in the cook house the same ; the wind dying away to a
 dead calm.     Towards noon to-day the atmosphere resumed
something of its natural appearance, and the sun visible, but red
 and fiery, as in the winter season, as if seen through the
 darkened glass of a quadrant ; and by degrees becoming more
 of a yellow colour.     Weather hazy and sultry, a dead calm, and
 the sea scarcely agitated ; — the sea covered with ashes, and a
 bucket of water taken up appeared nearly as black as writing
 ink, from the quantity of ashes which had fallen ; they appeared
as if those of burnt wood, and not of a heavy sandy nature ; a
strong smell perceptible in the air, and violent head-ache com
 plained of by many on board.
    " Not having a thermometer on board, the temperature could
 not be observed : it did not, although close and sultry at times,
 appear to be remarkable for the season of the year.        Numbers
 of small birds flying about, seemingly much disturbed.           The
 darkness at 8 A.M. to-day, as great as is usual in London in
 the month of December at the same hour.
    " From the darkness during the night, the seamen were obliged
 to use lanterns with candles on fleck to conduct the navigation
 of the ship.
    " Longitude 6.P 48- west, and latitude 49° 49' N.
    "4th July. — This day the ashes falling in a small quantity ;
and the darkness last night excessive again, so much so that the
 hand could not he observed while touching the face ; at half
 past 3 P.M. scarcely able to see the hour by a watch.
    " The ashes collected on deck appear to be those of burnt wood,
                                                                darker

          New -Experiments     on the   fluoric Compounds.              93
darker and more heavy than the ashes from a tobacco pipe                     ;
that collected from the surface of the sea, when dried, resem
bling   a cake   of shoe blacking.   Several ships in different quar
ters of the Gulph and River St. Lawrence observed the same
appearance of darkness, which appears to have been pretty ge
neral, although not to the same degree.
   " A frigate coming up, the Captain in his cabin had candles to
breakfast at half past eight.  No reason can as yet be assigned
for this extraordinary phaenomenon. It is conjectured by many to
be in consequence of a volcano ; but the ashes by no means re
sembled those thrown up by the volcano in St. Vincent, West
 Indies, some years since; some of which the writer of this has
seen.    Considerable fogs and hazy weather had prevailed for
some time, during which it was supposed the Leopard man of
war was wrecked on the Island of Anticosti."
XVI. An     Account of some new Experiments on the                  fluoric
     Compounds ; with some Observations on other Objects            of che
     mical Inquiry   .   By Sir H. Davy,   LL.D. F.R.S. F.P.R.I              *
In    this paper I shall offer to the Society a continuation of
those  researches, the details of which have been already ho
noured with a place in their Transactions ; and I trust, that the
experiments and observations which I have to communicate will
be found to elucidate some important but obscure parts of che
mical philosophy.
     In the last paper which I had the honour of presenting to
this body, I have given an account of a number of experiments
made with a view of decomposing the fluoric acid : the most
probable inference, from my results, was, that the pure liquid
fluoric acid consists of hydrogen united to a substance which,
from its strong powers of combination, has not as yet been pro
cured in a separate form, but which is detached from hydrogen
by metals, and which, in union with the basis of the boracic
acid and silica, forms the fluo-boric and silicated fluoric gases.
    All the new experiments that I have made on the fluoric
compounds tend to confirm this idea ; and the various attempts
that I have made, since the last session, to decompose the prin
ciple in the fluoric acid separated at the negative surface in Voir
taic combinations, have been unsuccessful.
   I have found that fluate of lead, the substance formed by the
action of a soluble salt of lead on fluate of potassa or fluate of
ammonia, is immediately decomposed, when moist, by ammo-
niacal gas, and a white powder separates from        it,  which must
contain oxygen, as       gives carbonic acid
                         it                     by  being ignited with
        * From the Philosophical Transactions for 1814,
                                                       part   i.
 :                                                                 charcoal

 94         An Account of some
 charcoal ; but dry fiuate of lead may be fused in ammonia with
out undergoing the slightest alteration; and the presence of wa
ter, which may furnish oxygen to the lead and hydrogen to the
fluoric principle, seems absolutely necessary for the production
of oxidated bodies from the fluoric combinations.
    I obtained analogous results by acting on silieated fluate of
ammonia and fluo-borate of ammonia by chlorine : when the
salts were moist, or when the gas was not free from vapour, si
lica and boracic acid were formed in small quantities ; but when
water was carefully excluded, these bodies did not appear ; and
the results were muriate of ammonia and silieated fluoric gas,
or fluo-boric gas and azote.
    I ignited two points of charcoal intensely in fluo-boric and
silieated fluoric acid gases, pure, and mixed with oxygen ; but
no change, indicating a decomposition,        took place ; the only
new product was a little inflammable gas, which was probably
disengaged from the charcoal.
    I passed pure liquid fluoric acid over charcoal ignited to white
ness, in a platinum tube ; no carbonic acid was formed, and a
verv minute quantity of gas only was produced, which proved to
be hydrogen.
    I mentioned in my last communication to the Society, that
I had made several experiments on the composition of the
fluates : since that time I have repeated some of the processes,
and I shall detail such of the results as appear to be most cor
rect.    In experiments on the fluates, it is very difficult to ex
clude sources of inaccuracy ; glass vessels cannot be used, and
even silver and platinum vessels are slightly acted upon by the
pure fluoric combinations soluble in water.
    Fluor spar decomposed by sulphuric acid increases more than
three-fourths of its original weight ; but to produce this result
several successive distillations of it with fresh portions of acid
are necessary, and the spar must be in very fine powder, and the
result must be powdered after every operation.
    In an experiment made in a crucible of platinum, in which
very pure white Derbyshire spar was used, and sulphuric acid
distilled in glass vessels, an;l in which the product was heated
to whiteness in every operation, 100 grains became in the first
operation 159-4 grains, which gained
                    in the second              6-9
                    in the third                4-2
                    in the fourth               1-9
                    in the fifth                1-6
                    in the sixth               0-9
                    in the seventh  .......    0-3
                    in the eighth              --0
                    Total increase            75-2                  If

                      on the fluoric Compounds.                       95
     If this result be calculated upon, supposing the number re
presenting calcium to be 40, as I have given it in my Elements
of Chemical Philosophy, the number representing fluorine will
be 34-2, and fiuor spar must be supposed to be composed of
40 calcium and 34-2 fluorine.
     Twenty-two grains of fused subcarbonate of potassa decom
posed by diluted liquid fluoric acid, in an experiment made with
great care, was found to afford 18-15 grains of dry fluate of
potassa; and by a very careful analysis, it was found that this
subcarbonate contained 31 per cent, of carbonic acid: now, if
 the remainder of the salt be supposed to be pure potassa, and
 the calculations be made on this idea, it will appear that fluate
 of potassa must consist of 125-9 of potassium and 54-74 of
 fluorine, and the number representing fluorine must be regarded
 as 32-6.
     The 18-15 grains of fluate of potassa decomposed by sul
 phuric acid afforded 38-5 of acid sulphate of potash. Supposing
acid sulphate of potassa to consist of two proportions of sulphuric
acid 150, and one of potassa 90, they ought to have given 40
 grains, and this loss is no more than might be expected in the
 process of decomposition and evaporation.
     In, some experiments that I made on the decomposition of
 the hydrates of potassa and soda, when decomposed by fluoric
 acid, the results indicated a number for fluorine a little lower.
 Thus 20 grains of hydrate of pcftassa were converted into 19-8
 grains of ffuate of potassa, and 20 grains of hydrate of soda into
 19-6 of filiate of soda: but I do not place so much confidence
 in these results, as there always was great heat produced during
 the action of the acid upon the hydrates ; and probably a minute
 quantity of the hydrates might have been dissipated at the be
 ginning of the process.                                            '  - •
     It appears reasonable to conclude, as I have stated in my last
 paper, published in the Philosophical Transactions, that the
 number representing fluorine is less than half of that represent
 ing chlorine, about 33.
     I endeavoured to ascertain the composition of fiuate of am
 monia, by adding together hydro-fluoric acid and solution of
 ammonia of known composition ; and I found in this way, that
 100 parts of solution of ammonia of specific gravity 9162 re
 quired for its saturation 52 grains of diluted fluoric acid of such
 a strength, that an equal portion produced exactly 32 grains of
 fiuate of potassa.    According to this experiment, fluate of am
 monia must consist of 9-7 of fluorine to 22 of ammonia*; and
 if it be conceived that liquid fluoric acid consists of two pro-
             * See Elements of  Chemical Philosophy, page 268.
                                                               portions

96                 An Account of some new Experiments .
portions of hydrogen to one of fluorine, the true composition of
fluate of ammonia will be one proportion of fluoric acid o5, and
two proportions of ammonia 64*.
   The volatility of fluate of ammonia rendered it impossible to
ascertain by evaporation the real quantity of solid salt formed :
though the heat was never raised so high as that of boiling
water, yet only 1 2-7 grains of solid fluate of ammonia could be
procured.
    Two hundred cubical inches of ammonia, which weigh 36                         >
grains, condense one hundred cubical inches of silicated fluoric
gas, weighing, under the same circumstances, 11 0-7; and if it
be supposed that silicated fluate of ammonia contains one pro
portion of silicated fluoric acid and one of ammonia, then the
number representing silicated fluoric gas will be 98-4, and it
may be conceived to consist of two proportions of fluorine 66,
and one of the siliceous basis 32-4.
   According to the experiments of John Davy, 100 parts of si
licated fluoric acid afford 61-4 of silica when decomposed by
aqueous solution of ammonia : hence silica may be conceived to
consist of 32-4 of basis and 29 of oxygen, and this is very near
two proportions of oxygen. .
    I decomposed 20 grains of silicated fluate of ammonia by so
lution of ammonia, and I obtained 9-2 grains of silica.        This
result offers proportions very little different from those gained
in the preceding calculations.
    I have made some direct experiments with the hopes of de
termining the proportions of oxygen in silica; but they have been
unsuccessful. I have ascertained, however, that it requires more
thin three parts of potassium to decompose one part of silica ;
which shows that this substance cannot contain much less than
half its weight of oxygen.
    I have endeavoured to separate the siliceous basis in a pure
form, with the view of making synthetical experiments on its
nature by combustion in oxygen ; and my results, though not
perfectly satisfactory, yet seem worthy of notice, and may lead
to more successful attempts.
    I decomposed silica by passing potassium in excess through
it,  in heated tube of platinum: the result consisted chiefly of
       a
alkali containing a dark-coloured powder, the basis of silica
diffused through it.         fused the whole mass with sulphur,
                                I
which,   in combining   with  the dry alkali, produced igmtion.              I
attempted to detach the sulphuret of potassa         waterby in this
                                                                   :
case the dark particles separated      but during their separation,
                                           ;
and after, they acted upon the water of the solution producing
  •   That   is,   if   ammonia lie regarded as composed of one proportion   of
azote 26, and six        of hydrogen.
                                                                         gas,

                        on the fluoric Compounds.                   97
  gas, and, in attempting to collect them by the filter, I failed to
  procure sufficient for examination,     for they were principally
  converted into silica.
       I heated the substance procured in another experiment of
  this kind with hydrate of potassa; in this case there was a copious
  effervescence, and silica appeared to be reproduced and dis
  solved by the alkali.
      I heated a portion of a similar result in strong lixivium of
  potassa; the solution gained a tint of olive, but there was
 scarcely any effervescence : from this it seems probable, that
  the inflammable basis of silica, like boron, is soluble in alkaline
 solutions without decomposing them.
      Indeed this body, in its general characters, appears very ana
 logous to boron.      It appears to be neither volatile nor fusible ;
 its oxide exerts, like boracic acid, a neutralizing power on the
 alkalies, though of a feebler kind, and forms, like boracic acid,
yitreous bodies with the alkaline earths ; and, like boron, the
siliceous basis in combination with fluorine constitutes a power
 ful acid.
      In my first views of the nature of the boracic and siliceous
bases, I thought it probable that they would both appear as
metals, if they could be entirely freed from oxygen ; but it now
 seems more probable, that they form a class by themselves,
 offering a kind of link in the chain of natural bodies, when ar
 ranged according to their analogies, between charcoal, and sul
 phur and phosphorus.
     It seems worthy of an experimental inquiry, whether the si
liceous basis may not be obtained pure by heating the result
procured from silica by potassium with pure sulphuric acid,
which might possibly detach the potassa to form acid sulphate
of potassa, without being decomposed by the inflammable basis.
     I have made many new experiments with the hope of decom
posing chlorine, but they haye been all unavailing ; nor have
I been able to gain the slightest evidence of the existence of
that oxygen which many persons still assert to be one of its ele
ments.
     I kept sulphuret of lead for some time in fusion in chlorine;
the results were sulphurane (Dr. Thomson-s liquor) and plum-
bane (muriate of lead); not an atom of sulphate of lead was
formed in the experiment, though, if any oxygen had been pre
sent, this substance might have been expected to have been
produced.
     I heated plumbane (muriate of lead) in sulphurous acid gas;
and likewise in carbonic acid gas, but no change was produced :
now, if oxygen had existed either in chlorine, or in its combina
tion with lead, there is every reason to believe, that the attrac-
    Vol.44. tio.\m. August -iBU.                G               tions

 98               An   Account        of some   new Experiments
tions of the substances concerned in these experiments -would
have been such as to have produced the insoluble and fixed salts
of lead, the sulphate in the first case, and the carbonate in the
second.                                                         .
    I shall not enter into any discussion upon the experiments in
which water is said to be produced by the action of muriatic gas
on ammonia: there                    is,
                                    believe, no enlightened and candid
                                       I
person,   who   has   witnessed    the   results of processes in which large
quantities of muriate of ammonia, made                    the combination of
                                                              by
the gases in close vessels, have been distilled, without being sa
tisfied, that there        no more moisture present, than the minute
                                is
quantity    which      known
                           is    to exist in- the compound vapours dif
fused through ammoniacal and muriatic acid gases, which can
not be considered either as essential to the existence of the
gases, or as chemically combined with them*.
   One of the first experiments that              made, with the hope of
                                                    I
detecting oxygen        in   chlorine,    was           by
                                                   acting upon         it   by
                                                                           am
monia,   when        found
                       I      that   no   water  was  formed,     and that  the
results were merely muriate of ammonia and azotef; and the
driest muriate of ammonia,             find, when heated with potassium,
                                           I
converts      into muriate of potassa; which result would be im
             it
possible on the hypothesis of oxymuriatic gas being                 compound
                                                                       a
of oxygen       for,
                  ;       there was
                            if             separation of water during the-
                                                a
formation of the -muriate, the same oxygen could not be sup
posed to be detached in water, and yet likewise to remain so as
to form part of a neutral salt.
    If water had been really formed during the action of chlorine
on ammonia, the result would have been a most important one                           :
it would have proved either that chlorine or azote was                    com
                                                                            a
pound, and contained oxygen, or that both contained this sub
stance.  ; but     would not have proved the existence of oxygen
                      it
in chlorine, till         had been shown that the azote of the am
                            it
monia    was  unchanged in the operation.
    Some authors continue to write and speak with scepticism
on the subject, and demand stronger evidence of chlorine being
undecompounded.             These evidences              impossible to give.
                                                        it   is
    has resisted all attempts at decomposition.               In this respect,
it It
   agrees   with  gold,    and  silver,  and  hydrogen,    and  oxygen. Per
sons, may doubt, whether these are elemental                bodies y   but
                                                                       ;         it   is
not philosophical to doubt, whether they have not been resolved
into other forms of matter.
   * Dr. Henry found      very difficult to free ammonia from the aqueous
                                it
vapour existing in    by hydrate of potassa
                           it                  and probably (lie hydrated mu
                                                    ;
riatic vapour which      have detected in muriatic acid gas,
                            I                                          by
                                                                    a freezing
mixture,     not decomposable by muriate of lime.
             is
  t   Philosophical Transactions for 1810.
                                                                                  By

                           on the   fluoric Compounds.                    99
         By the same mode of reasoning,           as that in which oxygen far
    conceived   to exist  in chlorine,    any other   species of matter might?
    be supposed to form      one   of  its  constituent parts ; and by mul
    tiplying words all the phaenomena might be satisfactorily ex
    plained. Thus, in the simple view of the formation of muriatic
    acid, it is said one volume of chlorine combines with one of hy
    drogen, and they form two volumes of muriatic acid gas. Iti
>   the hypothesis of chlorine containing oxygen, it is said, the
    oxygen of the chlorine combines with the hydrogen to form
    water, and this water unites to an unknown something, or dry
    muriatic acid, to produce a gaseous body.              If it were asserted
    that chlorine contained azote, oxygen, and this unknown body,
    then it might be said, that in the action of hydrogen on chlo
    rine, the azote, the oxygen and the chlorine, having all attrac
    tions for hydrogen, enter into union with            it,  and form
                                                                     a    qua
    druple compound.
        Professor Berzelius has lately adduced some arguments, which
    he conceives are in favour of chlorine being a compound of
    oxygen, from the laws of definite proportions        ;    but
                                                               I    cannot re
    gard these arguments of my learned and ingenious friend as
     possessing any weight.       By transferring the definite proportions
     of oxygen    to  the   metals, which he has given to chlorine, the
    explanation becomes a simple expression of facts           ;  and thereis
     no general canon with respect to the multiples of the propor
     tions in which different bodies combine.              Thus, azote follows
     peculiar  laws  in   combining      with  every  different body;
                                                                    it   com
     bines with three volumes of hydrogen, with half a -volume of
     oxygen, with 1-2 and           \\  of the same body, and with four
     volumes of chlorine.
        The chemists in the middle of the last century had an idea,
     that all inflammable bodies contained phlogiston or hydrogen.
    It  was the glory of Lavoisier to lay the foundations for       a   sound
     logic in chemistry,    by showing that the existence of this prin
     ciple, or of other principles, should not be assumed where they
     could not be detected.
        In all cases, in which bodies support combustion or form
     acids, oxygen has been supposed           by the greater number of mo
     dern chemists to be present         ;  but as there are many distinct-
     species of inflammable bodies, so there may be many distinct
     species of matter which combine with them with so much energy,
     as to produce heat and light     ;   and various bodies appear capable
     of forming acids thus hydrogen enters into the composition of
                       :
     nearly as many acids as oxygen, and three bodies, namely, sul
     phuretted hydrogen, muriatic acid, and fluoric acid, which con
     tain hydrogen, are not known to contain oxygen.                The exist
     ence of oxygen in the atmosphere, and its action in the ceconomy
                                          G2                               of

100     Official Report         of a Fall of Aerolites          near Grenade.
of nature, and in the processes of the arts, have necessarily
paused it to occupy a great portion of the attention of chemists j
and being of such importance, and in constant operation, it is
not extraordinary, that a greater number of phaenomena should
be attributed to      it,   than    it   really produces.
   In the views that have ventured to develop, neither oxygen,
                            I
chlorine, or fluorine, are asserted to be elements     only as           ;   it   is
serted that, as yet, they have not been decomposed.
   As the investigation of nature proceeds,        not improbable,
                                                               it   is
that other more subtile bodies belonging to this class will be*
discovered; and, perhaps, some of the characteristic differences
of those substances, which apparently give the same products
 by analysis, may depend upon this circumstance.
   The conjecture appears worth hazarding, whether the car
bonaceous matter in the diamond may not be united to an ex
tremely light and subtile principle of this kind, which has hi
therto escaped detection, but which may be expelled, or newly
combined, during its combustion in oxygen.         That some che
mical difference jnust exist between the hardest and most beau
tiful of the, gems and charcoal, between     non-conductor and a
                                                           a
conductor of electricity,       scarcely possible, notwithstanding
                                        it   is
the elaborate experiments that have been made on the subject,
to doubt and:      seems reasonable to expect, that
                     it                                 very refined         a
or perfect chemistry will confirm the analogies of nature, and
show that bodies cannot be exactly the same in composition or
chemical nature, and yet totally different in all their physical
properties.
XVII.                               of    a Fall       Jeroliles near Grenade,
         Official Report
                                        N.N.W.     of of
    seven Leagues         to the                       Toulouse, on the \0th of
    April    1812.        By M. D-Aubuisson, Chief Engineer of
    Mines in France*.
                                    v
On    the 10th of April IS 12, the air was colder, than       had been           it
for a few days the thermometer marked only 5° about eight in
                 ;
the evening, when the phaenomenon took place               had rained    :   it
a great part of the day, and the sky was almost entirely covered
with thick clouds.
   At the above hour       brilliant light was seen in the atmo
                                a
sphere  at Toulouse,  and for several leagues around    this was fol     :
lowed   by  very
             a   loud detonation.       was       It
                                            thought  at first  that the
powder magazine of Toulouse had been blown up and when                   ;              it
  * Journal rfes Mines, vol. xxxi. p. 419. — The interruption of our com
munications with France prevented our laying this paper sooner before our
readers.— Edit.
                                                                                       was

         Official Report   of a Fall of Aerolites   near Grenade.      101
 was discovered that this was unfounded, the light and noise were
 ascribed to some extraordinary meteor ; for the state of the at
 mosphere and the force of the explosion did not admit of the idea
 of its being a simple clap of thunder. A few days afterwards it
 was discovered that this phaenomenon     had been accompanied
 with a shower of stones two leagues W.N.W. of Grenade, in the
 commune of Burgave, (department of the Upper Garonne,) and
 of Camville and Verdun (department of the Tarv and Garonne).
 Some specimens were sent to the prefect of the Upper Garonne,
 and this magistrate appointed      a commission    composed of
 M. Saget, of the Academy of Sciences ; Marque- Victor, Pro
 fessor pi Physics ; Carney, Professor of Mathematics ; and my
 self, in order to proceed to the spot and collect the details of
 the phaenomenon.     We accordingly gained the following infor
 mation    :
               Circumstances observed in the Atmosphere.
    The light which spread over the atmosphere appeared all at
 once.     Although the sun had set for an hour and a half, and the
 air   was dark, the  light was so brilliant that the Mayor of Grenade
  informed us that he could read the smallest characters in the
 streets of the town ; and the Mayor of Camville compared it to
 the light of the sun ; adding, that the town clock was as visible
 as at noon day, and that a pin might have been picked up from
 the streets.
     The exact duration of this light was not remarked:               Some
 persons estimated it at        two   minutes  ; others at one, and others
 still less ; but the fact  is,  that the light was continuous, and not
 instantaneous like that of lightning.
     TJie sky around being dark, the body which produced this
 light could not be seen.           Scarcely hadit     disappeared in the
 place where the      aerolites  fell, when   there  were  heard in the air
three strong detonations similar to the report of large pieces of
cannon     :  they succeeded each other rapidly, and almost without
 any   interval.
     Their noise was such that they were heard at Castres, twenty
leagues from the spot where the stones fell.            They were distin
guished from each other in the neighbourhood                  of this spot
alone some persons informed us that theywere of equal strength;
       ;
others said that their intensity gradually diminished.
    We attempted in vain to collect information as to the interval
which elapsed between the light and the detonations, in order
to obtain some data as to the distance and height at which they
had taken place.
    Thev were followed       by   a very loud noise, which some com
pared    to  that of several  heavy    carriages rolling at once upon the
                                  G 3                        pavement  ;

  102      Official Heport  of a Fall of Aerolites     near Grenade.
  pavement; others compared it to the sound of several drums;
  and others to a strong fire of musketry from the Spaniards hav
  ing invaded the country.
       The noise was heard not only where the stones fell, but also
  at Grenade and Toulouse ; it was heard for nearly a quarter of
  an hour, according to some persons : but although this is of
   course exaggerated, I cannot help thinking that it lasted a mi
  nute at least.
       It came from the N.E. and proceeded to the S.E. The pea
  sants who gave us the most correct information, heard it pass
  over their heads towards Toulouse, and gradually cease in that
   direction.
       After the rolling noise had passed over the ground situated
   hMween the farms of la Bordette and la Pradere, a sharp hissing-
   noise was heard, which ended in considerable shocks, similar to
   grape shot striking the ground : these phaenomena were pro
   duced by the fall of the aerolites.
                   Circumstances    observed    on the Ground.
       I now give the information received, as to the aerolites which
   were collected or heard to fall.
        1. The inhabitants      at the little farm called la Bordette
   distinctly   heard   two  aerolites   fall ; one to the northward in a
   field adjoining, which they have not yet found : the other was
   found about 50 paces to the south-east : the fragment which
   we have weighs three ounces, and the whole stone did not weigh
   six.
        2. At the cottage called Paris (300 metres above Pemejan)
   the inhabitants were at the door listening to the rolling noise
   over their heads, when they heard the noise of a body which fell
   in front of them.        The master of the house then went back
   through the house to shut the door of a stable, and when there
   he heard a second large hotly fall.             The interval between the
    two must have been about 76 seconds.                This fact is of im
   portance.
        8. At Pemejan, the inhabitants, equally alarmed at a stone
    which fell near them, took refuge in the house ; when they heard
    a second hissing sound, followed by the noise of a body falling
    on the roof.       Next day they found a tile broken, and a stone
1
    weighing about three ounces resting on the lath.            Having care
    fully examined this spot, I found uo contusion, nor any mark of
    fire, upon the wood of the roof.             In the vicinity of the farm
    two stones were found which weighed a few ounces only.
        4. At Richard, after the rolling noise, an explosion was heard
    in the air, and next day a stone weighing eight ounces was
    found.
                                                                       5.  At
                                       l

     Official Report   of a Fall of Aerolites   near Grenade.      108
   5. At Pradere, there fell, about a pace from the house, with
considerable noise, and more than a minute after the detona
tions, an aerolite weighing two pounds.        It was not entirely
sunk in the earth, and was not perceived until two days after
wards.     A few seconds afterwards a smaller stone Ml 40 paces
in front of the house.
   We did not learn for certain, notwithstanding some informa
tion to that effect, that any aerolites fell beyond the limits
marked by the places which we have mentioned.
 • The
         quantity of the aerolites which actually fell must not be
inferred from the small number which was collected.          It was
night when they fell, and most of the inhabitants were in bed :
the ground on which they fell was partly in grass and partly
ploughed up : into the latter many were no doubt sunk, so that
it is more than probable, that a much more considerable quan
tity fell that what is mentioned above : in short, all that were
collected fell close to the houses, and of course were easily dis
covered.    The whole that fell, therefore, may fairly be estimated
 at upwards of 100; nay, perhaps at 1000.
           Mineralogical    Character of   the Aerolites-.
   They were so like each other that the description of one will
suffice.    They were from three to eight ounces in weight, And
one only weighed two pounds.         They consist of a homogeneous
paste    of  a stony nature, containing- a very great quantity of
small particles of iron in the metallic state, and very malleable.
They do not affect any particular form. Their surface presents
every where softened and rounded angles, nearly like those of a
body which had begun to fuse.           It is a very thin crust, like a
coarse varnish or superficial coating ; sometimes however it is
thicker, but rarely exceeds a quarter of a line. It is of a blackish-
brown colour.
   The interior is of an ash gray.        It becomes deeper, and ex
hibits spots of yellow ochre, when exposed to the contact of the
air. The fracture is earthy with coarse grains, or rather gra-
nulous like freestone : it is rough to the touch.
   With the exception of the metallic points, it is entirely dull :
rasping makes it shine a little, in consequence of the ductility of
the iron, as we shall soon see.
   These aerolites are easily broken and easily pulverized.        Their
fall even upon soft earth has broken most of them.             They are
semi-hard   (i.  e. they scratch glass)
                                      .     The crust only    herd, and
                                                             is
gives some sparks with steel.
    The specific gravity of six specimens varied onlv from 3-66
to 371.
                                  G   4                           Ts

 104     Official Report  of a Fall of Aerolites near Grenade.
     They  are absolutely opaque, sour, do not stick to the tongue,
 and do   not  sensibly absorb water in which they are plunged.
     Thin fragments, when exposed to the blow-pipe, became black,
 and were covered with black globules at some points : their sur
 face was in this state similar to the crust of entire aerolites.
    The iron was in considerable quantities, being more than a
 third of their weight : it is not however very conspicuous to the
 naked eye, on account of the smallness of the particles; but they
 are evident when the specimen is rubbed or polished.      The rron,
 which is very malleable, is then spread by the hard body, and
 forms a small scale or stud : like a piece of bright lead.       This
 metallic aspect is particularly visible at the surface on the spot
 struck by the steel.      The surfaces exposed by the lapidary's
 wheel present, on a gray ground, small metallic spots, and re
 mind us of certain jaspers, containing dendrites of silver, which
 are found polished in mineralogical cabinets.
    The great quantity of iron contained in these aerolites ren
 ders them of course very susceptible of the magnetic influence.
 But tltey exhibited no traces of polarity; and the phaenomena of
 attraction only, but none of repulsion, were ever exhibited.
                             Observations.
    I shall hazard no conjectures, but only remark that three facts
 conspicuously arise from the foregoing descriptions : . ,
    1. The space or district occupied by the aerolites of Grenade,
is too limited to suppose that the point at which they were se
 parated from each other was very high above the surface of our
globe.     They seem to have been fragments of a large mass
which passed from N.W. to S.E., and which was broken, several
times perhaps, at the time of the successive detonations which
were heard in the atmosphere.          The strength of the latter
seems to indicate that they took place in a very dense medium,
and consequently at a small height.
    2. After their separation, the fragments of this mass must
have undergone a heat capable of fusing their surface : for each
on reaching the ground was entirely covered with a varnish, or
blackish coating, evidently produced by fusion.
    3. The light seen in the atmosphere seems to have been an
effect of the deflagrations of the a-erolitic mass; for it appeared
suddenly like lightning, and was followed, or rather accompanied,
by detonations, the interval between the light and the noise
being undoubtedly the mere effect of distance.      This light must
have commenced by being very feeble, and must have gradually
increased afterwards, if it had been produced by the arrival of a
luminous meteor in our atmosphere*,
                                                       XVIII. De-

                                     [     105   ]
XVIII.   Description of a practical Diagram for obtaining in «
   simple and easy Manner the Correction of the Lunar Distances
   a? observed by a Sextant.   By Lieut. James Bulkeley, of
   the Ruyal Navy.
                                To       Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, —    I take the opportunity of sending you a description of
a practical diagram, for obtaining in a simple and easy manner
the correction of the lunar distances as observed by a sextant,
which is submitted to your approbation and opinion for publica
tion. I am, sir,
                     / Your obedient servant,
Huntley-Hall, Cheadle, Staffordshire,       JAMES BulKELEY.
           June 0,      1314.
                 Description.   [Plate II. fig.               1.]
   AB,    asemicircle divided into 180 degrees or equal parts;
AC, the semidiameter graduated as          line of sines; CD,
                                                     a                a
flat bar moveable round the centre of the instrument, and ending
with  a nonius or pointer to the semicircle, and divided like the
semidiameter as line of sines
                        a        EF, bar sliding at right angles
                                          ;      a
to the semidiameter, and on a pivot, to enable     to fall either to
                                                              it
the right or left of the semidiameter, and graduated as a line of
chords terminating on the semidiameter with       nonius.    HG, a
                                                              a
small bar moving at right angles to the moveable radius CD,
and cutting with silk thread the perpendicular bar EF, as at
                         a                                           I.
                     Method      of  using the Instrument .
    Suppose the apparent distance to be 104' 30'; the sun's ap~
parent altitude 43° 20'; and the moon's apparent altitude
 12 .30'; horizontal parallax 57' 49": to find the true distance.
  '
With the moveable radius CD set off the apparent distance on
the graduated semicircle AB 104° 30' as per figure.     Then with
the perpendicular EF set off on the semidiameter AC, which            is
divided as line of sines, the moon's apparent altitude 12° 30',
              a
as per figure   and on the radius CD with the sliding perpendi
                ;
cular CH set off the sun's apparent altitude 43° 20', as per
figure then will the silk thread on GH cut on the perpendicular
      :
EF, (which      divided as a line of chords, but the degrees reck
                is
oned as minutes, and the minutes as seconds)    number, as 44' 00"
                                                          a
at per figure which
  I                 ;           if
                            multiplied     the horizontal
                                                     by   parallax,
and (as the perpendiculars cut to the right of the semidiameter)
 divided   by
            62, will give a correction to be subtracted from the
 apparent distance, to find the true, as 44' 00" x 57' 49" hori
 zontal parallax; and -=-62 = 42' 26"— from apparent distance
                                                                    104"

 106     Remarks on   Mr.     Hume's Gazometer and Blow-pipe.
104° 30', gives the true distance 103° 57' 34".          But should the
perpendiculars   cut  to  the  left of the semidiameter,  the sum mul
tiplied by the horizontal parallax         must  be divided by 52; and
then the correction is to be added to the apparent distance, to
find the true distance.
     N. B. This instrument may be made either in brass, wood, or
with care in card. I made a model in card, with a radius of
about six inches, which gave the true distance within 10'' or
 15" of it when worked by other methods.
   XIX.    Remarks   on  Mr. Hume's       Gazometer and Blow-pipe.
                        By   U CoRRESJPONBENT.
                             To  Mr. Tilloch.
         U pon reading in your Journal for the preceding month,
                                                London, August 13, 1814.
                                                                         a
paper by     Mr. Hume, wheTein he describes         a method for con
structing    an improved blow-pipe, out of some chemical appa
ratus, possessing the peculiar advantage of yielding a current
of atmospheric air by inhalation ; a suggestion occurred to me,
 which upon trial was verified, that too great exertion of the
 lungs would be required to render the current of air of suffi
 cient duration to be useful in chemical or mineralogical experi
 ments.
     The Woulfe's bottle I used for this purpose contained about
 three pints; and though it required considerable exertion to draw
 up the water into the separating funnel, yet the stream of air
 continued only three-quarters of a minute ; a time certainly in
 sufficient to make scarcely any experiment.
     Now I am inclined to think that the cylindric gazometer,
 which is almost indispensable to the chemist, and is frequently
 used for this purpose, answers the end proposed by Mr. Hume
 more completely than his contrivance; because, merely by raising
 the interior cylindrical vessel, as many cubic feet of atmospheric
  air may be obtained in a given time, as by inhalation we could
 obtain inches; and with this additional advantage, that the force
 of the current of air may be increased or decreased at pleasure.
  Nevertheless, I think that Mr. Hume deserves great credit for en
 deavouring to increase the powers of the philosophical chemist,
 without increasing his apparatus, the expense of which already
 deters many from the pursuit of so pleasing and useful a science.
                         I am, sir,
                            .        Your most obedient servant,
                                                                W. W.
                                                              XX. Me-

                                   t    107   ]
XX. Memoir           upon the compound and smooth or limple Eyes of
     Insects, and on the Manner in which these two Species of
     Eyes concur in Vision.          By M. Marcel de Serres, Pro
    fessor of     the  Sciences in  the  Imperial University*.
Visus igitur     quo insecta paudent nulla penitus ratione cum nostris oculis
     aut cuia camera obscure in qua ri-rum species, reflexioiiis ope, super
    charta aut panno albicante pinsuuntur in comparationein venire potest.
                              SWAMMEHDAM, Bibtia Nature, tom. i. p. 502.
Sight        seems    to be one of the most perfect of the senses of
insects    ;   and in this respect these animals are in the first line
 jimong      those without vertebrae as birds are among those with
vertebrae.         Both enjoy a very long sight ; and we know at how
great     a   distance    the maggot, like the bird of prey, perceives
the object which it wishes to devour.              Is the great quantity of
 air inhaled by these two orders of animals in the act of respira
tion, the cause of the acuteness of this sense, as it is of their
muscular strength? or must we account for it from the great
development of their retina and the largeness of their eyes ?
 However difficult it may be to resolve a question abounding so
 much with difficulty, it is probable that insects and birds owe
 equally to the great abundance of air which they inhale, the acute
 ness of their senses, and the activity of their digestion ; fmally,
 the violence of their passions, if we may so express ourselves.
      Far ditferent from the vertebral animals in the structure of
  their eyes, insects enjoy the impression of external objects by
 means peculiar to themselves, and which furnish proofs that na
 ture knows how to attain the same end by very opposite ways.
  In fact, the operation of vision is not performed by insects in
  the same way as with most animals by the action of the lu
  minous rays, which, after passing through the pupil, collect on
  the retina, but rather by the shaking of the optic nerves occa
  sioned by the light which passes through the cornea.                 These
  eves are constructed so as to receive the images of objects by
  the simple shock of the rays which these objects reflect, and this
  method of feeling must necessarily be very acute.             Besides, in
   sects not having, like the vertebral animals, pupils susceptible of
   contracting, it would seem that vision ought to be very perfect
   with them, on account of the great number of rays which fall
   continually on the facets of their eyes.
        Nevertheless, one of the great inconveniences which re
   sults from the organization of insects, is the kind of im-
   moveability of the parts in which their eyes are fixed.               But
   nature has remedied whatever is unfavourable in this orga
   nization, by rendering the eyes of insects very much com
   plicated, and by multiplying their facets in such a way that one
                        * Magasin Enryclopedique, Feb.   1814.
                                                                          and

    108                  Memoir upon the compound
  and the same eye presents as many as fourteen thousand, as
   Hooke observed in the lilellulce *. Nature has even sometimes
  multiplied the number of the eyes themselves, and this number
  seems to be always in the ratio of the size of these very eyes, and
  the immoveability of the parts in which they are situated. Thus,
  when the compound eyes are entirely wanting, the number of
  the flat or simple eyes' is greatly increased, and certain species
  have thus even six pair of eyes.       This is observed in some of
  the apterae, many of the larvae, and particularly in the spider.
 Jndeed, the latter should be separated from the insects, as Messrs.
  Lamarck and Cuvier have already done 5 for their organization
 presents some very marked distinctions, and of the first import
  ance.    In fact, the spider like the scorpion has a kind of lungs,
  and consequently a real heart with blood-vessels ; whereas in
 the real insect the organs of respiration are always ramified, and
 the vascular system, or at least what has been taken for        neverit,
 is.   Sometimes, however, the eyes of insects are not situated in
 parts entirely immoveable, and certain species present        kind ofa
 neck, which Comparetti seems to have been the first to observe,
                            f
 and which permits the head to execute variety of movements.
                                                    a
 This neck very conspicuous in some of the carnivorous species,
               is
 which not being able to pursue their prey on account of the
 disproportion of their organs of movement, require the faculty
 of seeing to       great distance.
                    a                  This organization      very evi
                                                                 is
 dent in the mantis, the empusa, and the mantispa, in which
the head may be directed to one side, or backward, and may
 even be twisted almost round.           may be remarked in general,
                                         It
 that the eyes are the more convex and the more salient, the more
 decidedly carnivorous the insect        as the mobility of the parts
                                         is,
in which they are situated,         always relative to the kind of life
                                    is
and to the habitudes of the insect.        In short, we never saw the
eyes of these animals present any kind of movement, and they
always adhere to the parts where they are situated, and conse
quently are completely immoveable.
     The sight     exercised
                    is         byinsects       by
                                             two organs very different
from those which perform this function in the vertebral animals
and the mollusci: they exhibit even very striking differences
from each other, as well in respept of their external conforma
tion, as in their internal disposition.    Some appear to be a large
cluster of eyes united together,         we may so express ourselves,
                                         if
and others exhibit one only.       The former have been called com
pound eyes, on account of their arrangement             and the latter
                                                        ;
    *
•    Swnmmerdam, Bibtia Nature, tom.      p. 490, and Collection Acaddmi-
                                           i.
que, p. 323.  Hooke has given the eyes of the Libellula     in
                                                            his Microgram
phia, plates xxiii and xxiv.
f    Dinamka Animate, part    p. 103 to 106.
                              i.
                                                                          smooth

                   and smooth Eyes       of Insects.               109
Smooth or simple eyes, on account of their simplicity.     These
two kinds of eyes concur to the same object,   and are sometimes
united on the same individual : thus, the orthoptcrce, like the
hymenopteree, present at once both compound and simple eyes,
a disposition which is also observed in various kinds of hemi-
pterce, neuropterce, and dipterce. The other classes present only
a single kind of eye ; but when there are only smooth eyes, their
number is always considerable, probably in order to make up for
their imperfection.    In general, all winged insects have com
pound eyes, and this law does not seem to present any exception.
 In the apterce, certain kinds present only compound ideas, such
as the cloportee: in truth, the latter seem formed by a collection
of simple eyes.     Other kinds have only simple eyes, such are
the juice and the scolopendrce, which present a certain number
of simple eyes ; but all these animals appear to me so different
fronuhe insect tribe in point of organization, that I have thought
it right to pass them over.
    With respect to the larvae, those of half-metamorphosed in
sects uniformly have eyes similar to those of the perfect insects ;
whereas the larvae of insects wholly metamorphosed            have only
simple eyes, which vary much in their number and position.
The caterpillar has six or eight on the sides of the head. The
false caterpillars, or the larvae of common flies, have two only, like
those of bees and the stratyomce.        Finally, a great many com
pletely metamorphosed larvae have no eyes at all.                       •
    We may also remark, that the species which exhibit both com
pound and simple eyes (which has never been observed but in per
fect insects) are those which have most need of seeing far, either
because by rising high in the air it is requisite that they should
distinguish their prey at a certain distance, or because, having
large flights to take, they should direct themselves with safety.
 In short, the insects of a great flight, like birds of prey, have very
delicate and very extensive powers of vision.
    But in order to give an exact idea of the two kinds of eyes of
insects, we shall describe each in particular, commencing with
the compound eyes, the organization of which is most compli
cated, and terminating our description by the simple eyes.           We
shall afterwards endeavour to ascertain in what way the faculty of
vision is executed among this order of animals, when we have
followed up all the differences of organizatiou which they pre
sent with respect to their eyes.
    1. Compound eyes.        The compound eyes are generally si
tuated on the lateral or middle parts of the head, sometimes
even completely at the base of     it, and a  few are placed near the
antennae,   or  more   or less laterally and   outside of these parts.
                                                                 Placed

110                Memoir upon the compound
Placed in orbitary cavities, they are protected not only by the
sides of these cavities, sufficiently hard to oppose the impression-
of external bodies, and by their external membranes, which are
almost as hard as the shelly envelope which covers the body, bu6
also internally by soft parts which seem to consist of tracheal
onlv.     In the animals with vertebrae, the eyes are besides pro
tected by several soft parts like the cartilages, the membranes of
the eyebrows and eyelids, which conceal them under a thick veil,
and defend them from external objects.        These parts, called by
Haller tent amino ocuhi, are totally wanting in insects ; and be
sides, after knowing the conformation of their eyes, of what use
could they be ?
    We must however observe that some insects present in their
cornea, and in general on the furrows which separate the hexa
gonal facets of this membrane, fine hairs, more or less long,
and more or less thick.      These have been regarded by Swam-
merdam and other anatomists, as the eyelashes of the eyes of
insects, although they do not spem to perform their office : in
fact, they appear to be so little essential that they are wanting
in the greater number; and when they are observed, they are
always arranged on the lower part of the eye, a position which
is far from being the most favourable to guard it against the ad
mission of foreign bodies.       Besides, scarcely any but the most
 glutinous bodies can adhere to the convex or polished surface of
 the eyes of insects; and when they do, the animal can easily remove
 them with its fore legs.      This is frequently observable in bees
 and flies, which take a pleasure in repeating the operation.
    The situation of the eyes, or rather their position, is very va
 riable in the different classes. As this position has a great in
 fluence in vision, we shall describe it in the chief families.
    The most external membrane of the compound eyes is hard
 and transparent : it might therefore either be called the sclero
 tica on account of its hardness, or transparent cornea from its-
 transparency.     This last denomination agrees with it perfectly ;
 for, as Swammerdam remarks, it has the flexibility, the firmness,
 and transparency of horn.        This cornea or sclerotica, convex
 externally    and concave   internally, is formed by an infinity of
 hexagonal facets arranged with the greatest regularity along
 side of each other.        These facets, divided or separated by
 furrows which always follow the direction of the cornea, exhibit
 in some insects, the kymenopterce in particular, hairs which
 resemble down.       As to the lines or furrows of the facets of
 the cornea, they are curved and a little folded on account of the
 spherical convexity of the cornea, which iuterweaves in different
 places the hexagonal facets with the lines which separate
                                                                them.

                       and smooth Eyes      of Insects.                 til
them.      In a wo»d, the whole cornea is a true hexagonal net
work, the internal surface of which is divided into as many hex
agonal facets as there are at the external surface.
    Swammerdam thought that the cornea received some tra
cheae, and that these constituted            the hexagonal meshes of
the cornea.         He seemed to think also, that these tracheae
could in the eyes of the nymphce serve for their expansion and
unravelling.       As to the first of these opinions, it does not seem
to agree with the organization of eyes in general ; for it is very
rare that the trachea penetrate through the choroid and reach
the cornea ; and I only know one example, and that is the li-
lellula vulgaris. The second fact, heing only a consequence of
the first, cannot be admitted, if it be true that the tracheae
rarely ever reach the cornea.
    The form of the cornea necessarily determines that of the
eye, and seems to have certain relations with the manner of
living of the species. Sometimes this form varies in its propor
tions, and that in the species of one and the same genus ; but it
seems as if the sphericity, or the more or less angular form, of
this same cornea is little subject to vary. In general, the cornea
is the more spherical and the more projecting in proportion as
 the animal is carnivorous, or when the eye is concealed under a
 flap of the eyelid, as we see in the lampyrce and others, where
 the sphericity of the eyes is so considerable that it comprehends
 almost the whole head.         We may also observe that the smaller
 the compound eyes are, the greater is the convexity of the
 cornea.      It is not the same with simple eyes, which in general
 vary  little  in point of size.
    In order to give a precise idea of these variations, we have
 described them in a certain number of families, in order that
 their importance may be known.               The cornea is in general
 cased in a cavity in the hard parts of the head.            This union is
 so complete that it is frequently impossible to separate them :
 we might even doubt that any separation was possible, were it
 not for a small ring externally which marks the line of adhesion.
 When the cornea is entirely separated from all the parts situated-
 below its internal face, as if from its covering, it seems white
 and brilliant, which renders it similar to horn.              This born is
 very  thick    in certain species.   It  is transparent    if  we examine
 it externally; but when       it is not freed   from   the other  parts si
 tuated below, it presents either bands or stripes of various co
 lours, or a marbled appearance.             It seems even completely
 black in a great number of species : most of the coleoptcrce^
  kymenopterce, and lepidopterce, present this arrangement.
     To conclude : this black colour and marbled tinge do not by
  any means belong to its texture, but depend, as may be easily
                                                                ascertained,

    112                  Memoir upon    ttte compound
     ascertained, on the difference in thickness and the various co-
    tours of the humour which adheres to it.
        Under the cornea is seen a conduit or pipe, not very liquid,
    not soluble in water, and strongly adhering to this membrane.
     Its colour in general is between the darkest violet and the deepest
    black. When this coating presents this colour, which is most
    frequentlyl/the case, it is almost impossible to distinguish it from
    the humour of the choroid.           This is not the case in the eyes
    the coating of which is red or green, -or of both colours united.
    We then see very distinctly the coating with its variegated
    colours, and the humour of the choroid with its black tinge
    which never varies. This arrangement is very conspicuous in
    the locust a gigantic, lilifolia, the libellitla vulgaris, and the
    greater number of the talani.            It is also very striking in the
    gryllus    lineola,  the eyes  of  which   appear to be streaked with
    brown and green bands, and which is indebted for this singu
    larity to the coating of the cornea being alternately brown and
    green, and that by nearly parallel bands.
        It is therefore to the mixture of the tints of the tunic of the
    cornea that the variegated colours presented to us by the eyes
    of insects are owing, precisely in the same way as from its va
    rious degrees of thickness and colouring the variegated stripes
    and'marble tint arise which appear at the exterior part of the
    eye, and which might have been thought peculiar to the cornea.
    Frequently, as a consequence of this arrangement, one and the
    same eye presents spots and stripes of various colours, or even
    one side of a colour totally different from the other.
        The coating of the cornea, therefore, covers all the infernal
    surface of this membrane.         Its thickness and consistence, like
    its opacity, are very much subject to variation, as already ob
    served : but it would seem that, in general, the more this tunic
    is opaque, the thicker and broader are the nervous threads which
    pass through   it,   in order perhaps that its opacity may not be an.
    obstacle    to vision.
        We are under the necessity of anticipating       a   little upon our
    description, and of speaking here of the optic nerves, which, fur
    nished    by the retina, pass through the choroid and its humour, as-
    does the coating of the cornea, in coming into correspondence with,
    the facets of the latter membrane.          This arrangement  is  not the
    same     in the species  which  present bands or stripes, and in those
    which want them.      If   we carefully remove the cornea, and      such
                                                                       in
    a manner as to remove very little of its coating, we observe, in the
    species in which the compound eye presents stripes externally,
    this coating to be composed of very distinct rays, one of which
    is  blackish and the other much deeper, and so on alternately.
    These two colours are far from being uniform          ;    and however
-
    ,    .                                                          slightly

               and smooth or simple Eyes     of Insects.           1   13
slightly we look at them, we soon perceive an infinite number
of polygons, the centre of which appears to be white. All these
white points are the extremities of the nervous filaments coming
from the expansion of the grand optic nerve*, or from the re
tina, and which have traversed the choroid and its coating. We
may convince ourselves of this in the following way: the brain
being laid bare, we may follow the optic nerve, and see it di
rected to the eye, where it spreads, and is divided into a multi
tude of filaments.    But if we draw these filaments, the white
points disappear completely, and there only remain on the
coating, streaks variously coloured; which proves that these white
points are the extremities of the nervous filiaments. We may re
cognise this arrangement in the great species, such as the libel-
lulce, the truxalce, and the common cricket.        In the species
which have no streaks on the cornea, we also observe on the
coating of the cornea, the furrows or ridges which form the
facets of this membrane, and the coating, which is more or less
deep, having the form of a polygon, which represents the facets             t
of the cornea.
    These retinae, peculiar to each facet, are those which Swam-
merdam has called the pyramidal of the eye.        These compound
fibres, according to him, proceed to a membrane as to a com
mon centre, and it is the circular trachea from which the fila
ments issue : he also observes correctly, that it is through its sub
stance that the tracheae pass which ascend along the pyramidal
fibres.   The figure of these fibres is hexagonal, and their upper
extremity is broader than their lower, spreading out a little, as it
would seem, when they get into the concavity of the cornea, and
taking the form of this membrane.
    To conclude : Swammerdam states that he never was able to
ascertain whether these fibres were muscular or nervous, al
though it would have been easy to convince himself of        it, since
they may    be followed   to the brain.  As to the  transverse  fibres
which Swammerdam has described          f,
                                         I  never perceived them.
I  am led to think that this expert anatomist must have made
a  transverse section in the eye and the brain, and that he formed
these fibres      the section which he made in the optic nerve.
               is by
At least, it      certain that these fibres communicate with the
brain, for Swammerdam himself admits           it:he remarks even
that we might compare them to a very considerable nerve which
we observe in the furrow, which nerve derives its origin from
the brain.
   * We
        designate the nerve which proceeds to the compound eyes, under
the name of grand optic nerve, in order to distinguish
                                                     it from the optic
nerves which proceed to the simple or smooth eyes.
t   Biblia Nature, tab. xx.   fig. 5.
Vol.44. No. 196. August 1814.                  H                       In

114                         Memoir upon the compound
     In order to             these white points, or the extremities of
                       observe
the nervous filaments which compose the particular retinas of
each facet, the cornea must be carefully removed, operating its
section from the outside to the inside, and taking care not to
remove the coating; for, however little we disturb the filaments,
they are so contractile, that they close in upon the optic nerve,
and no longer appear on the coating of the cornea.                  If,
                                                                  instead
of dissecting the eye from the outside to the inside, we observe
it   by successively removing the internal parts, we can never dis
cover this arrangement, even in the genera where              it most de
                                                                   is
cided     such as the gryllus, the mantis, the Ubellida, and the
          ;
tabanus.       This depends on the contractibility of the optic
nerves,   which      sometimes so great as to draw the filaments even
                       is
beyond the choroid.
     Immediately under the optic filaments and the coating of the
cornea we observe the coating of the choroid.             This coating or
varnish         viscous substance, not liquid, soft, very clammy, and
               is
               a
not very soluble in water.            It  also strongly adherent to the
                                           is
membrane which             covers when the latter exists.
                             it                                Swammer-
dam remarks        with  great truth,   that  this  opaque varnish stains
the fingers like the common pigmenlum nigrum.                But this ac
curate observer seems to have confounded the coating of the
cornea with the varnish of the choroid, when he says that the
latter      variously coloured according to the species. On the
           is
contrary, the black colour and the opacity of the varnish of the
choroid are established beyond contradiction.            This colour even
seems to    be  internally connected with the texture of the choroid,
for   it     impossible to discharge
              is                                it   by
                                                   repeated maceration*.
Contrary to the opinion of Hooke*, Swammerdam thinks that
there does not exist in the eyes of insects any humour properly
so called      and in fact, neither the tunic of the cornea nor the
varnish         of ;
              the choroid deserves the name of humour, particularly
if  we compare them to what            understood by the term humour
                                       is
in the eyes of vertebral animals.          Finally, the same anatomist             -
regards the blackish varnish of the choroid, as the extremity of
certain fibres placed immediately under the cornea, fibres which
have been torn on removing this membrane.                This explanation
appears    very  improbable,   since, when   the tunic of the cornea    ofis
a   colour different from the varnish, there never exist any blackish
 fibres corresponding with-this same cornea.           Besides, haw could
     * Hookeand Boyle were the first who maintained that air was necessary
to combustion and respiration, and that those operations consume but           a
certain portion of it. Hooke even conjectured that air was fixed in nitre,
and that combustion was        chemical process,
                                  a                 e. the solution of the burn
                                                     i.
ing body in a fluid, or. its union with this substance.    The chemists of the
present day hold no other language.        Micrographia, pp. 45. 104, 105.

                   and smooth or simple Byes                  of Insects.                       115
 the colour of this varnish be always the same with that of the
 choroid ? This single fact demonstrates, in my opinion, an
 analogy between the choroid and its varnish : it would even seem
 that the latter is produced by a kind of transudation which takes
  place through the meshes of this membrane itself.
     If the varnish of the choroid be formed by a transudation of
  this membrane, it is evident that this varnish ought always to
  cover   it,  and thisis precisely what       observed. But this varnish,
                                                   is
 as well as the choroid itself, does not always exist:                     would       it
  seem even that all the species which shun the light are totally
 deprived of it. At least         Ihave not observed          in the Maps, the
                                                                       it
 pedinus, and most of the tenebrios:                   wanting beyond doubt
                                                        it   is
  in the blatlce, which, as           well known, are stupefied with the
                                      is
 light   of  the sun.    When the varnish and the choroid exist,                                it   is
 not very difficult to separate this membrane from the varnish.
It  seems then to be most generally cellular; and in certain species,
 the longitudinal fibres of which              it  composed are sufficiently
                                                        is
 decided to make       it appear slightly     streaked,     on account of the
 tracheae which are distributed over               this
                                                   it   :   distinctly observa
                                                                   is
 ble in the truxalce.         This arrangement has been well described
 by M. Cuvier in his Memoir on the Nutrition of Insects, p. 42,
 tab. i.    fig. 3. This organisation might induce               belief that the
                                                                            a
 choroid     is  formed      by the prolongation or union of the small
 tracheae furnished      by  the large circular trachea: at least, all the
 tracheae which proceed to this membrane are totally lost in it;
 and as we cannot recover them, after they reach                      we ought  it,
 to regard them as contributing to form the choroid.                        This
 membrane          therefore composed of
                  is                               cellular texture tolerably
                                                    a
 close, on which there exists           collection of tracheae furnished
                                           a                                                         by
 the large circular trachea, and which are imbued with, or rather
 deeply penetrated by,        a blackish varnish.        The choroid       more            is
 or less black, but always opaque and its sombre tint
                                               ;                         as con       is
 stant as its opacity.         Finally, the longest macerations cannot
make   it    lose its colour or opacity, as we have already observed.
    The choroid of the compound eyes of insects has been re
garded       by Swammerdam as an uvea.                 would seem, however,
                                                             It
that it   cannot be called an uvea, as             does not occupy the bot
                                                    it
tom of the eye of insects.              However this may be, this mem
brane   is   attached   by  its circumference to the whole of the edge
of the cornea, and consequently follows the contours of this
same membrane.           It      surrounded           large circular trachea,
                                                        by
                              by is
                                                             a
in general furnished              the  tracheal   artery of Swammerdam,
but varying as to its arrangement in             the  different genera.      For
instance, in the gryllus and truxalis,                    the third principal
                                                             it   is
division of this same trachea situated in the head, which, when
it  arrives at the eye, becomes bifurcated, and the two tracheae
                                           H   2                                            which

1   16              Memoir upon ihe compound
which result fasten on the   edges   of the   eye : the latter form the
large circular trachea, unite afterwards to the upper part, con
tinuing after this junction in one single trachea, which, by join
ing to another, afterwards terminates at the base of the brain.
   The large circular trachea furnishes an infinite number of
very minute tracheae, which soon becoming bifurcated, form very
numerous isosceles triangles which rest on the circumference of
the optic cone.     These triangles formed by the tracheae are di
vided as by a perpendicular, by the nervous filaments resulting
from the expansion of the optic nerve.         These filaments after
wards pass through the choroid and its opaque varnish, as well
as the tunic of the cornea, and terminate below the facets of
the last-mentioned membrane. This arrangement of the tracheae
and of the nervous filaments forms a handsome network, which
is rendered verv sensible by carrying the nerve inwards, and on
the side of the brain.       All these tracheae afterwards continue,
and terminate on the choroid.           The genera which have no
choroid also want the circular trachea.
    In the genera which have vesicular tracheae, like the lamelli-
corn coleopterce, most of the lepidopterce and dipterce, as well
as certain orthopterce, like the gryllus and the truxalis, we
observe considerably under the optic cone another circular tra
chea, but much smaller than that which surrounds the edge of
the cornea.     The latter turns around the optic nerve, and is
surrounded itself by numerous air pouches, the use of which
seems to be, to sustain the optic nerve and to keep it in its position.
    The small circular trachea is wanting in all the genera which
do not present pneumatic pouches or vesicular tracheae: as it
appears, however, essential for keeping the nerve in its position,
it is replaced by the fibres of the adductor muscle of the mandi
bles, which on separating wholly surround the optic nerve,
and prevent its being put out of place.         We cannot say that
the muscle in its contractions can act on the nerve by com
pressing it; for observation proves, that by placing the muscle in
all the contractions of which it is capable, the nerve remains al
ways in its natural position, since the contraction of the muscle
is effected longitudinally only, and from front to rear ; so that,
whatever contraction it undergoes, it can never touch the optic
nerve.
    The optic nerve formed by the prolongation of the brain          is,
 of all the nerves of the head, the largest and broadest, particu
 larly    we measure
         if           it   at the place where     spreads.
                                                 it           It issues
 almost always from the lateral and upper surfaces of the brain      ;
 but its position with respect to the other nerves furnished by
...
 the brain    very variable.
              is                According to the species and position
•f the various parts situated in the head,       it  either the third,
                                                      is
                                 .                                 the

                  and smooth or simple Eyes    of Insects.          lit
the fourth, or the fifth pair of nerves furnished by this organ.
The optic nerve at its origin is a little cylindrical, and, directing
itself laterally, enters soon after its origin into the small circular
 trachea when it exists ; and, when it does not exist, between the
filaments of the adductor muscle of the mandible, which forms
a kind of circular aperture for its passage.      Gradually this nerve
expands, and forms a cone, which has its base on the cornea
and its summit on the brain.        This expansion is greater or less
according to circumstances.         The libellulfB, the lamellicorn
coleopterce, most of the hpidopterce, as well as the gryllus, the
truxalu, and the mantis, present it almost the whole length of
the cornea ; whereas in the greater number of species in which
the cornea is not spherical, this breadth is in general much less,
and that in a very decided manner.         It is from this expansion
that a very considerable number of nervous filaments issue, which
proceeding between the tracheae furnished by the large circular
trachea, form the network which we have already mentioned.
These are the filaments which, traversing the choroid and its
varnish, as well as the tunic of the cornea, go to form the par
ticular retina of each facet, each penetrating into the hollow
of one of these facets, in order to receive the impression of the
light which they transmit to the brain.        We see at the exterior
of the compound eyes a black point which seems moveable, and
the apparent mobility of which is owing to a cause which we
sball explain when speaking of vision in general.          In order to
resume this description, we may observe that, according to the
conformation of the compound eyes, the union of the small
facets forms altogether        the first membrane      or transparent
cornea, and that, besides, each of these facets may be consi
dered as itself a cornea.        The nervous filaments which pass
through    the  tunic of the cornea  are probably the particular re
tina of each facet. As to the tunic with which they are as it were
surrounded, and which everywhere fringe the cornea, its chief
use must be to diminish the impression of the luminous rays,
an impression the stronger because it takes place in an imme
diate manner.       The blackish varnish which covers the opaque
membrane, situated under the tunic of the cornea, may with
great probability be assimilated to the varnish of the choroid,
as the membrane itself may be to the choroid.          Finally, the ex
pansion of the optic nerve applied under the choroid, must be
considered with M. Cuvier as a true nervous membrane perfectly
similar to that of the red-blooded animals.
    After having given a general description of the compound
eyes of insects, it only remains for us to describe some pecu
liarities of organization which different species present.
                                  H 3                                 If

118 Memoir upon the compound and smooth Eyes                     of Insects.
     If
      we study the compound eye of certain lamellicorn coleop
terce, as, for example, that of the nasicorn geotrupce and silt nee,
we observe that its form is like a heart, and that it is divided into
two in its upper part, by the portion of the cranium which sup
ports the horn.      The cornea is tolerably thick, and divided, as-
 usual, into hexagonal        facets s under this membrane we ob
serve the mucous tunic, the optic filaments, the varnishing of
the choroid, and that membrane itself, black like the tunic of
the cornea.
    The circular trachea exists, and the great optic nerve receives,
besides, an infinity of other tracheae, several of which accompany
the small optic nerves, and reach the cornea by some subtile
ramifications.     The roots or principal trunks of the trachece are
placed under the optic nerve, and are attached in the first in
stance to the tunic with which it is covered.          They derive their
origin from a considerable branch adhering below the principal
trachea, and surrounded with other small similar trachea.           The
geotrupce, flying only at sunset, present the same organization
in their optic nerve with most of the lucifugce.         Their principal
retina or great optic nerve approaches nearer to the cornea than
in the species which    fly  about in open day.        Thus the eyes of
the giant scarite become after the death of the insect of a
reddish white, and yet they are black when the insect              alive.
                                                                      is
This whitish colour   is   owing to an alteration in the tunic of the
cornea; but as this alteration does not act upon the mucous
varnish of the choroid, the latter remains black, of which we
may be convinced on removing the cornea with its tunic.             This
appearance   is  also very common in an infinite number of cole
opterce, and even in several other families. In general the cornea
is very thick in the eyes of the coleopterce:            few only of the
                                                             a
hymenopterce (and      in  particular   the  apis violacea) present this
membrane of an equal thickness.             When the coleopterce have
vesicular tracheae only, which takes place in almost all the                   la
mellicorn insects, they want the circular trachea which generally
surrounds the optic nerve.          To conclude the optic nerve
                                                         :                      is
always   surrounded    with  tracheae  even in     considerable number,
                                                     a
and these     tracheae  form   most frequently several vesicles, which
leave some interval between them, an interval generally very
 small.   Nevertheless, in the species having the tunic of the
 cornea of a clear colour, instead of being buck, we see on the
 exterior part of the eye      a single point        of
                                                   the same colour cor
 responding   to the aperture through     which  the optic nerve passes;
 or rather we distinguish several points, as we shall mention
 when wc come to speak of the butterfly.
                              [To   be continued.]
                                                                    XXI.       Re-

                                [   H9      ]
  XXI.     Report- wade by Order       of the Philomathic Society of
      Paris.   By Drs. Mage-ndie and Blainville, on the Sub
     ject of the new Operations and Instruments invented by Sir
      William Adams for the Cure of various Diseases of the Eye.
      Read and approved by the Society the 28th of May 1814*.
  We      have been directed to give an account to the Society of
  an   English work having for its title " Practical Observations on
. Ectropium, with a Description of a new Operation for the Cure
  of that Disease, and the Method of forming an artificial Pupil,
  &c. &c. By William Adams, Member of the Royal College of
  Surgeons of London, Oculist Extraordinary to His Royal High
  ness the Prince Regent,        Oculist in Ordinary to their Royal
  Highnesses the Dukes of Kent and Sussex, and Surgeon to the
  West of England Infirmary at Exeter for the Treatment of Dis
  eases of the Eyes,"       To these titles it is but fair to add, that
  Sir Wm. Adams enjoys not only in England, but throughout Eu
  rope, the highest reputation as an oculist.
      The present work is divided into three chapters, each of
  which embraces an important point in the history of diseases of
  the eyes : we shall examine them in succession.
      The first chapter treats of Ectropium. In order to under
  stand what follows, we must observe that Ectropium is a disease
  which consists of an eversion of the eyelids, as a consequence
  of which these organs cease to cover the anterior part of the
  eye.    This disease is not only hideous to the sight, but ex
  cessively severe upon the patient, chiefly on account of the ex
  cruciating pain occasioned by the contact of the air or a strong
  light, and particularly if the smallest solid body should touch
   the conjunctiva.     There is besides a constant flow of tears
  down the cheek, and an habitual ophthalmia, which in a short
  time is followed by au opacity of the cornea, and soon after
   wards by blindness.
      Sir Wm. Adams chiefly confmes himself to the Ectropium which
   affects the lower eyelid only, and which is caused by the pri
   mitive enlargement of its "internal membrane.            It has been
   proposed to cure this disease by removing with scissars the en
   larged membrane, in order to reduce it to an equal length with
   the skin, nearly in the same way with tailors when they take in
   the lining of a coat the outside of which has shrunk. This mode of
   treatment is generally adopted ; and Sir Wm. Adams having ope
   rated in this way on several persons affected with Ectropium, he
   found that the disease returned in the whole.      He thought he had
    discovered the reason in the too considerable extent retained
          * From the
                     Proceedings of the Philomathic Soeiety of Paris.
                                     II 4                             by

120                    Report made by Order          of
by the skin of the eyelid after the excision of the conjunctiva ?
he therefore endeavoured to remove a triangular stripe, com
prising the whole thickness of the eyelid, including the tarsus
cartilage.     This stripe, so far as we can understand the author's
description, ought to be nearly of the form of an isosceles triangle,
the small side of which corresponds with the free edge of the
eyelid.     After removing       it,
                                  Sir Wm. Adams brings the edges of
the wound together        by   suture, and the union generally takes
place in  a    few days.      By following this process, the author          is
of opinion that    a  relapse will always be avoided, and he quotes
several cases in support of his opinion.             In all the patients
treated in    this way,   the operation    was  attended with no acci
dent whatever.
    This process, which, so far as we know, has never been em
ployed in France, appears to us very ingenious, and completely
attains the object proposed            by
                                      the author.
    The   second   chapter  of  Sir Wm.    Adams's work      not less in
                                                               is
teresting than the first    :   ittreats of the operation necessary to
form an artificial pupil.       The author speaks in the first place of
the circumstances which render this operation necessary, among,
which he particularly distinguishes the obliteration of the pupil,
the partial opacity of the transparent cornea, the protrusion of
the iris, &c.      In this operation Sir Wm. Adams attacks the iris,
in its posterior side, according to Chrselden-s process he re            :
commends that the opening should be made as large as possible,
particularly  if   the operation       for an obliteration of the pupil
                                       is
with complete transparency of the cornea.
    In cases where the transparency of the cornea not extensive,
                                                           is
with adhesion of the iris, the instrument should be introduced
 quite through the cornea, and attack the iris on the anterior
 side, so as to destroy the adhesions in the first place, and after
wards to make the aperture directly opposite the transparent
portion of the cornea.
     Sir Wm. Adams has made most successful application of the
                                       a
 property possessed by the extract of belladonna of dilating the
 pupil in cases where the opacity of the cornea            not extensive,
                                                          is
 and situated opposite the pupil,           by
                                             introducing every morning
 between the eyelids    a   drop of extract of belladonna.          greatA
 dilatation of the pupil    is  produced, and the patient       restored
                                                                    is
 to sight.    A      patient who underwent this treatment could
 read the smallest characters with ease          :when the influence of
the remedy ceased, the same person could not distinguish the
largest objects.       Here Sir Wm. Adams discusses the question,
whether the continued application of belladonna might be pro
ductive of inconveniences         ?and he concludes in the negative.

                     the Philomalhic Society     of Paris.               121
    One of our number, however*, must observe on this occasion,
that he has seen animals poisoned when a venomous substance
was brought in contact with the conjunctiva, — a circumstance
which ought to dictate the greatest caution in the application
of belladonna to this membrane.              Sir Wm. Adams afterwards
speaks     of   a process employed    by  the  late Mr. Gibson, of Man
chester,      in  cases  where  the  central  opacity of the cornea was
very extensive, and       in which the application of belladonna could
have no effect.         This surgeon made an incision in the cornea,
 one line from its junction with the sclerotica, and about three
 lines in length. After the evacuation of the humour, a small
 portion of the iris presented itself through the opening; and then
 Mr. Gibson with curved scissars removed the portion of the
 iris which had protruded into the wound in the cornea, so as to
 form an artificial pupil nearly circular. Sir Wm. Adams makes se
 veral objections to this process, among others that of producing
 a considerable opacity in the portion           of the cornea which re
 mained transparent.           He substitutes another process, which
 consists in drawing the edge of the pupil through a small aper
 ture made in the cornea, and leaving it in a state of strangula
 tion : the portion of the iris which appears protruded is after
 wards destroyed by the nitrate of silver.          Fifteen cases, the de
 tails of which are very curious, terminate this chapter, and serve
  to prove the correctness of the author's doctrine.
     The third chapter of Sir Wm. Adams's work treats of cataract.
     He gives in the first place his ideas as to the causes of this
  disease.      He denies that there is any such thing as scrophulous
  cataract, but admits of a venereal one, the essential character
  of which is an opacity of the crystalline capsule, the crystalline
  retaining all its transparency.       Authors have made no mention
  of this cataract ; so that the discovery of it must be attributed
  to Sir Wm. Adams.
     The author afterwards notices a great number of cases of
  cataract observed in new-born infants.             On this occasion he
  observed, that if more than one child by the same mother were
  born with cataract, all who came after were affected, and even
  the cataracts were of a similar naturef.          The author therefore
     * Most                            This ingenious physiologist, in concert
               probably M. Magendie.
  with M. Delille, has been for several years engaged in experiments on the
  effects of vegetable poisons on the animal ceconomy.     See the Reports of
  the Proceedings of the French Institute in the Philosophical Magazine
 passim.  — Translator.
     t O" referring to the Author's   work, we find his idea appears to be
  misunderstood ; his words are: " In all cases of congenital cataract which
  have fallen under my notice, where more than one child has been affected,
  it has invariably occurred in succession". — Translator.
                                                                   maintains

 122                 Report made by Order      of
maintains that cataract is hereditary, and adduces several in
stances.
    The method of treatment which SirWm. Adams seems to prefer,
leads him to speak of the absorbent faculty of the anterior and
posterior ehambers of the eye, and of the solvent powers of the
aqueous humour.        He mentions several facts in support of his
assertion, and among others the following: Mr. Cline, a cele
brated English surgeon, operating upon a cataract by extraction,
the point of his instrument broke, and remained in the anterior
chamber, where it was seen to rust, dissolve, and finally disap
pear by the process of absorption.
     Sir Wm. Adams afterwards describes the instruments which he
uses for the various operations of the eye. As they do not differ
much from those generally employed, we shall not enter upon
any detail respecting them.
     Our author proceeds as follows : In operating for solid cataract
in adults and children, he employs the knife represented in the
plates which accompany his work, as No. 4, being a kind of
very narrow flat needle with sharp edges.        The eye being fixed
 by the speculum, he inserts the instrument into the sclerotica,
 one line behind the iris : the flat part being parallel to this mem
 brane, he makes it penetrate into the posterior chamber, and
 afterwards into the anterior chamber until the point be very
 close to the nasal edge of the pupil ; then turning the instru
 ment half round, which directs one of the edges of the knife
 towards the crystalline, he gives a thrust backward, so as to cut
 in halves the crystalline and the capsule: by various move
 ments he afterwards cuts the two halves into several portions,
 taking particular care to detach the capsule and its adhesions
 from the ciliary processes.   Afterwards quickly replacing the in
 strument as it was upon entering the eye, and acting with the
 flat side, he places the separated portions of the crvstalline and
 of the capsule in the anterior chamber, where they are after
 wards quickly absorbed.
     Sir Wm. Adams thinks it highly important that the capsule and
 the crystalline should be. divided at one and the same moment :
 " Not only," he observes, " do we thereby avoid a secondary ca
 taract ; but it is much easier to cut the capsule than when the
 crystalline had been previously extracted from its cavity.       The
 horizontal section of the crystalline has the advantage" of pre
 venting the capsule from being detached too soon from its ad
 hesion to the ciliary process, and the crystalline from revolving
 upon itself, and totally passing into the anterior chamber.      This
  process has a great resemblance to that which has been some
 times practised in France, under the name of the process of
  JSroyement (Bruising).                                           For
                                                                       1

                        the Philomatkic Society          of -Paris.                    123
    For the fluid cataract, the same instrument and nearly the
same process of operation are requisite; with this difference, that
we have only to attend to the crystalline capsule, which is ge
nerally opaque.
    Sir Wm. Adams, for the operation of capsular cataract, prefers
a needle which differs a little from that which has been de
scribed by Scarpa, and from that which we make use of for the
operation by depression.           The operating process consists in
cutting the capsule     into  stripes, and subjecting it to the absorb
ent powers of the chamber of the eye. When the capsule is
too thick, and it is difficult to tear           Sir Wm. Adams contents
                                                  it,
himself with detaching         from its adhesions.
                                  it                        The capsule con
tracts of itself, and occupies, until        it  entirely absorbed,
                                                  is                     point   a
of   the  posterior  or  anterior     chamber:      as, on account of its
weight,    itoccupies the lower part only$             does not oppose the
                                                             it
passage of the rays of light.         If the capsule adheres to the pos
terior face of the iris, Sir Wm. Adams, instead of dividing                into   it
slips, and making         pass into the anterior chamber as Scarpa
                             it
recommends, contents himself with separating                  with great care
                                                                  it
from all its adhesions, and leaving            merely
                                              it          attached           by
                                                                       a point
in its circumference to the ciliary processes, so that —              may hot
                                                                            it
move, but remain fixed to the posterior face of the iris, where
it   becomes absorbed more or less speedily.                     Sir Willliam
Adams has seen some of these capsules, when placed in the
anterior chamber, remain upwards of two years without
occasioning any accident, or even injuring vision.                  In general
it   is very advantageous to separate                into several portions,
                                                        it
 for then its absorption          infinitely more speedy. Sir William
                                   is
Adams has           particular process for operating upon solid
                    a
cataract in old persons: at this age the centre of the crystal
line  is so hard that the needle cannot make any impression
upon      it
           ; in this case Sir William Adams makes use of an in
strument a little stronger, with which he cuts the crystalline                          by
vertical incisions, taking care to avoid any change in the situa
tion of the part the fragments are pushed into the anterior
                         :
chamber: the place which they occupy                   filledis        by
                                                                  the aqueous
humour,     which   softens what     remains    of the crystalline, and ad
mits of its being cut entirely           incisions in a second or
                                        by                                third   a
operation, at the same time that             prevents the crystalline from
                                             it
 approaching the iris. There ought not to be a long interval
between the operations         for the nucleus of the crystalline might
                                  ;
either    be detached    and  press upon the iris, causing irritation,
or, passing into the anterior chamber, where on account of its
hardness        could not be absorbed, would require for its ex-
               it                                                                            -
traction the incision of the cornea. As to the capsular cataract
With transparency            of
                           the crystalline,          cataract which ought
                                                        (a
                                                                             to

 124        Chi some   ntw Electro-chemical Phcenomena.
to be named after Sir William Adams, since we are indebted to
him for its discovery,) the method of treatment is the same as
for solid cataract of adults and children.           The last part of the
work is also accompanied by a great many interesting and ac
curate observations. The whole concludes with an Appendix, in
which the author suggests some doubts, which appear to be well
founded, as to the appearances by which we distinguish the com
plication of amaurosis with cataract : here also he cites cases in
support of his ideas.
    The work of which we have now given an account to tht
 Society, evinces in its author a conspicuous talent for observa
tion, great experience, and much of that ingenious spirit which is
ever fertile in resources, and so useful in the practical sciences.
 It is, in short, one of the best works ever published on the dis
eases of the eye.     We are of opinion, therefore, that the Society
owes its thanks to the author for his book ; and that it will be
an honour to the Society to enrol Sir Wra. Adams among the
number of its foreign correspondents.
                                 (Signed)       Magendie, D.M.S.
                                               N. de Blainville.*
XXII.      On   some    new   Electro-chemical        Pheenomena.       By
   William Thomas Brande,             Escj. F.R.S. Prof. Clwm.    R.I.f
T                                   §
It
                                       1
     has been ascertained by     Sir H. Davy, that when compound
bodies capable of transmitting electricity are submitted to the
Operation of the Voltaic pile, their proximate and ultimate ele
ments are separated with uniform phaenomena ; that acids are
attracted towards the positively electrified surface, and that alka
line and inflammable substances take an opposite direction, and
collect at the negative pole.
    Of the ultimate chemical elements of bodies, the greater num
ber exhibit the last-mentioned character, and a few only appear
to be attracted towards the positive extremity of the Voltaic in
strument ; and as bodies possessed of dissimilar electrical powers
attract each other, it has been concluded, that the inherent elec
trical state of the former is positive, that of the latter negative.
    These chemical effects were at first regarded as peculiar to
the Voltaic pile, and were considered to depend upon the opera
tion of a new agent, termed the Galvanic fluid, until Dr. Wol-
   * This Report was read, and
                                  highly approved by the Society, at a Ge
neral Meeting held on the 28th of May 1814, when Sir William Adams
was unanimously elected one of its correspondent members.
   f  From the Philosophical Transactions for 181 i, part i.
                                                                   laston,

              On   some new   Electro-chemical Phenomena.              125
laHon, in the year 1801 *, succeeded in imitating the effects by
means of the electrical machine, and thus experimentally de
monstrated the identity of common and Voltaic electricity.
   More recent investigations, and especially the admirable re
searches of Sir H. Davy, have fully established the correctness of
these views, and have shown that the different action of the Vol
taic pile and the electrical machine depends chiefly upon the
quantity of electricity in the former being great, while its inten
sity is inconsiderable, and vice versa.
   In the following lecture I shall have the honour of presenting
the Royal Society with some new inquiries connected with these
objects of research, and have much pleasure in adducing fact*
which throw further light upon this interesting department of
chemical science, and which harmonize with the opinions of th*
able philosophers alluded to.
                                     §   II.
   When the flame of a candle is placed between two surfaces in
opposite electrical states, the negative surface becomes most
heated : this circumstance was considered by Mr. Cuthbertson
as indicating the passage of electric fluid from the positive to the
negative surface        f.
   Mr. ErmanJ has shown that certain substances are unipolar
in regard to the electricty of the Voltaic pile ; that          is,
                                                           that they
are only susceptible of transmitting one kind of electricity.   The
insulated flames of wax, of oil, of spirit of wine, and of hydrogen
gas, only conduct positive electricity    dry soap, on the contrary,
                                               ;
and the  flame of  phosphorus,  under  the same circumstances, only
transmit negative electricity.
   Sir H. Davy§ considers the result of Mr. Cuthbertson's ex
periment to depend upon the unipolarity of the flame, which
would render      positive, and cause
                   it                    to be attracted towards the
                                           it
negative pole.
   On perusing these statements,       occurred to me that they ad
                                         it
mitted of another explanation, and that the appearances might
be connected with the chemical nature of the substances em
ployed.  I   repeated Mr. Cuthbertson-s experiment, and found
that when the electrical machine was in weak action, the nega
tive surface not only became hot sooner than the positive, but
that the smoke and flame of the candle were visibly attracted
towards it.        now removed the candle, and substituted the
                   I
flame of phosphorus, when the appearances were exactly re
versed; the positive surface now became considerably warmer
         * Phil.   Trans. 1801, p. 435.       Practical Electricity,
                                               t
              Annates de Chimie, 1807, tome lxi,     13.
                                                    p.   1
        § t   Elements of Chem. Philos. vol.   p. 177.
                                               i.
                                                                       than

   126       On some new Electro-chemical Fha-nomena.
  than the negative, and the flame and smoke of the phosphorus
 were powerfully directed^ upon it.     I conceived, therefore, that
  the flame of the candle was attracted by the negative pole, ill
 consequence of the carbon and hydrogen in which it abounds,
  and that the rapid formation of acid matter during the combus-
 tion of the phosphorus was the cause of its attraction towards
 the positive pole : in short, that the appearances were consistent
 with the known laws of electro-chemical attraction.
     To ascertain the correctness of this idea, it became necessary
 to examine the phaenomena with greater precision, and to insti
 tute the more extended series of experiments, which, with their
 results, I shall proceed to detail.
     The apparatus employed consisted of two insulated brass balls
 capable of being brought near to, or removed from, each other,
 with a small table between them, as represented in the annexed
 drawing.     (PI. II.)
     When it was necessary to ascertain the relative temperaturer
 of the balls with accuracy, I made use of the instrument, fig. 3,
 devised by Mr. Pepys, in which a a represent two thin spheres
 of brass containing delicate thermometers, the bulbs of which, as
 well as the interior of the spheres, were coated with lamp black,
 to render the increase of temperature more evident.     One of the
 balls was connected with the negative, the other with the positive
 conductor of a small electrical machine of Mr. Nairne's con
 struction, as represented in fig. 2, so that the apparatus was
 perfectly insulated.
                                 § nr.
     Exp. I . A small stream of olefiant gas was burned between
the balls.    The flame was evidently attracted towards the nega
tive side.   The combustion was continued for one minute.        At
the commencement of the experiment, the mercury in the ther
mometers stood at 60° Fahrenheit ; at its termination the posi
tive thermometer indicated 62', the negative 72°.
     2. The experiment was repeated with sulphuretted hydrogen :
the flame was now only slightly attracted by the negative ball,,
but the sulphureous acid vapour passed off towards the positive
surface.
    In this experiment the positive thermometer rose 3° and the
negative thermometer 6° in one minute.
    3. Avery small flame of phosphuretted hydrogen was slightly
bent towards the positive pole.       In one minute it produced an
effect upon the positive thermometer =5°, upon the negative
 = 3°. When a larger flame was used, it appeared equally drawn
towards the two electrical poles, but the acid vapour passed off
in the direction of the positive ball.
                                                            4. The

              On some new Electro-chemical Phenomena.                   127
     4. The flame of arsenicated hydrogen was attracted by the
negative surface : the fumes of white arsenic produced during
 the combustion were slightly attracted towards the positive pole.
     5. The flame of hydrogen appeared weakly attracted by the
negatively electrified ball ; but on employing the apparatus with
 thermometers, the rise was nearly equal on both sides.             In one
 experiment, made with much caution,            the  thermometers stood
 at its commencement at 5(i°.             The gas was burned for two
 minutes : the negative thermometer rose to 62°, the positive to
 (31*.
     In a second experiment, the combustion was continued for five
 minutes: the effect upon the negative thermometer was = 4°,
 that upon the positive = 2\i°.
     6. With a very small stream of carbonic oxide, the results
 were still less distinct.     The tip of the flame appeared in some
 cases to b:> slightly inclined towards the positive ball, but one
 thermometer' was not more affected than the other.
     On substituting a larger current of the gas, which produced a
 flame between three and four inches in length, it was much more
 evidently directed to the positive surface, but the rise in the po
 sitive thermometer was less than might have been expected.              In
 several cases Where the combustion was continued for two mi
 nutes, the rise in the positive thermometer did not exceed that
 of the negative more than 2-5 to 3 degrees.
     7. Sulphur, in a state of combustion, was placed between the
 oppositely electrified balls.       The flame being extremely small,
 its direction  could   not be  observed, but the sulphureous acid va
 pour was attracted by the positive ball.
     8. The flame of the sulphuret of carbon (sulphuretted liquor
 of Lampadius) was attracted by the negative surface : the acid
fumes which it throws off took an opposite direction.
     9. When phosphorus in a state of vivid combustion was in
 troduced into the electrical circuit, the flame, and the phosphoric
 acid produced, were powerfully directed towards the positive sur
 face.
     The acid vapour which arises from phosphorus, during its slow
 combustion in a warm atmosphere, is also attracted by the po
 sitively electrified ball.
      10. A small stream of muriatic acid gas was allowed to pass
 into the atmosphere between the electrified spheres ; it was im
 mediatelv attracted to the positive pole.         This effect is rendered
 more     evident   by the  diffusion  of  a small  quantity of ammonia
 through the atmosphere of         the room  in  which  the experiment is
 made.
      The attraction of the muriatic acid is strikingly exhibited by
 coating the conductors with litmus paper, placing them at a
                                                                   distance

128        On   some new    Eleclro-chemkal    Phenomena.
distance of about six inches asunder, and propelling a current of
the gas through a small tube between them.              If the electrical
machine is not in too powerful action, the positive ball is instantly
reddened, while the blue colour of the negative surface remains
unaltered.
    1 1 . Nitrous acid gas exhibited     the same appearances as mu
riatic acid.
    12. Potassium in a state of combustion was placed between
the electrified surfaces.      Its flame, and the alkaline fumes it
produces,    were drawn   to  the  negative conductor.
    13. Ammonia afforded no very distinct results.          I attempted
to ascertain its electrical state by disengaging it through a small
tube placed between the conductors, the atmosphere being slightly
tainted with muriatic acid ; but it was apparently equally at
tracted and repelled by the electrical surfaces.         When the con
ductors were coated with turmeric paper, the negative appeared
sooner reddened than the positive, but in a very short time the
effect upon each became equal.                                        .
    14. Benzoic acid evolved by gently heating benzoin betweeu
the electrical poles, was attracted to the positive side ; but when
the balsam took fire, the flame and carbonaceous matter were
immediately drawn in an opposite direction.
    I heated some pure benzoic acid placed upon a silver capsule,
between the balls ; as long as the temperature was only sufficient
to raise it in vapour, it took the positive direction : but the mo
ment that the acid was inflamed, the carbonaceous fumes passed
to the negative side.
    15. Camphor during its combustion throws off a large quan
tity of charcoal, and, when burned between the opposite electrical
surfaces, furnishes a good instance of the attraction of that sub
stance by the negative pole, which soon becomes coated with           it,
 the positive ball being much less soiled.
    16. The resinous bodies in general exhibited the same ap
pearances as camphor         when in     state of combustion, both the
                                       by a
                        :
flame and smoke were repelled            the positive, and attracted   by
 the negative pole.
    17. Amber, on the contrary, presented phaenomena nearly
similar to those of benzoin.      When brought into a state of fusion,
its acid vapour   was  attracted  by  the positive ball; but when- made
to burn, an opposite effect was produced.
                                 §   IV.
   In the preceding detail of experiments, such only have been se
lected as were attended with marked results. Theelectrical energies
of many other substances were examined and compared, but no
new facts were ascertained, nor were any circumstances observed
                                                                  which

              On some new Electro-chemical Phenomena.              129
which interfere with the inferences     suggested  by the above state--
 ment.
     To insure accuracy, each of the experiments was several times
repeated in the presence and with the assistance of some of my
 chemical friends, and the results were uniform when proper pre
 cautions were attended to.      It is especially necessary to operate
in a quiet atmosphere, and to employ a feeble electrical power ;
 for, if the machine is too strongly excited, the substances under
examination are alternately attracted and repelled between the
poles, especially if insulated, or non-conductors of electricity.
 The balls were usually withdrawn from each other to a distance
of four inches, and the subject of experiment placed equidistant
between them.       The poles too were occasionally changed, By
moving the connecting wires from one ball to the other, with a
view to insure correctness by observing the change thus pro
duced in the direction of the flame or vapour.
     The experiments were sometimes varied, by using the Leyden
jar with a sliding electrometer connected with its outer surface :
the substance, the electricity of which was to be examined, was
 placed between the ball of the charged jar and that of the elec
 trometer.
     Regarding these experiments as connected with electro-che*
 mical theory, they appear to furnish a more evident proof than
 has hitherto been offered,. of the inherent electrical states of
 matter, which are decidedly exhibited by the attractions and re
 pulsions between the opposite poles ; and when connected with
 Dr. Wollaston's researches, to which I have elsewhere alluded,
 they amply demonstrate the identity in chemical powers of com
 mon and Voltaic electricity.
     The attraction of acids by the positively electrified surface,
 and of alkalies and inflammables by that which is negatively elec
 trified, is thus easily exhibited ; and the theory which regards
 their mutual attractive energies, as dependent upon their op
 posite electrical states, confirmed by experiments not less deci
 sive than those in which the Voltaic instrument was employed.
     Of the former class, phosphorus in slow and in rapid com
 bustion, and benzoic acid, furnish the most striking instances ;
 and of the latter, the combustion of potassium and of camphor
 are excellent examples.
     There are, however, some circumstances which appear difficult
 to explain, and which have not turned out as might have been
 expected a priori.     The combustion, for instance, of carburetted
 hydrogen gives rise to the production of water and carbonic acid,
 but its flame is entirely and powerfully attracted by the negative
 surface ; and carbonic oxide, which produces carbonic acid, is
      Vol. 44. No. 196. August 1814.               I                not

130        On   some new   Electro-chemical Phcenomena.
not very evidently attracted by either pole, unless the flame be
of a very laige size.     It may, however, be conceived with regard
to carburetted hydrogen, that the carbonic acid which is formed
does actually pass off to the positive surface, and that the polarity
of its flame is influenced rather by the combustible, than by the
product of combustion : this idea is in some measure sanctioned
by the appearances exhibited by the flame of the sulphuret of
carbon, which is directed towards the negative ball, although the
sulphureous acid visibly passes towards the positive side, and it is
iair to infer that the carbonic acid accompanies it.
    An attempt was made to detect the carbonic acid by means of
 Caustic potash : for this purpose a piece of linen, moistened with
 the alkaline solution, was applied to each conductor, and a cur
 rent of carbonic acid, issuing from a small tube, was directed be
 tween them.       The linen was then put into dilute muriatic acid,
 and it was expected that the effervescence would be greatest' in
that removed from the positive pole : this generally appeared to
 be the case ; but I cannot say that the results were satisfactorily
 distinct, not indeed does the method admit of the accviracy re
 quired.
     The experiments related in the second section of this lecture
 suggest an explanation of the phaenomena alluded to, as observed
 by Mr. Erman, more consonant with the known laws of electri
 city than that which he has suggested. The flame, for instance,
 of oil, wax, &c. must be considered as consisting chiefly of those
 bodies in a state of vapour ; and their natural electricities being
 positive, it is obvious that, when connected with the positive pole
 of the battery, and with a gold-leaf electrometer, the leaves will
 continue to diverge ; but when applied to the negative pole, that
 electrical state will be annihilated by the inherent positive energy
 of the flame, and consequently the leaves of the negative electro
 meter will not diverge.       On the other hand, the flame of phos
 phorus   is negatively unipolar.     Now it has been shown, that
 this flame (owing probably to the rapidity with which it is form
 ing a powerful acid by combination with a large portion of oxy
 gen) is attracted by the positively electrified surface, and conse
 quently that it is itself negative, so that it would transmit nega
 tive electricity to the electrometer, but would annihilate the po
 sitive power, and thus appear as an insulator under the particular
 circumstances which Mr. Erman has described.
                                                         XXIII. AH-

                                  t   131
   XXITJ. Account of a new Species of Insect of the Genus Co-
       rynctes of Fabricius, observed in an Egyptian Mummy at
       Grenoble.    By M. Champollion Figeac*.
   The     circumstances attending the discovery of this insect, hi
   therto unknown,      are equally singular as the result is in itself in
   teresting ; no person, in fact, would expect to find a new species
   of insect in an Egyptian mummy.
       The curiosities of this description, which various public and
   private cabinets of Europe contain, have been examined by many.
   Blumenbaeh and several other naturalists have studied the va
   rious kinds of embalming which they present, and have in
   quired into the process itself, combining their remarks with
   what Herodotus and Diodorus have written on the subject.
   Considered in an anthropological point of view, the mummies
   prepared by the Egyptians have served to prove that there ex
   isted certain differences of form or proportion between the in
    dividuals embalmed ; i. e. the people of Egypt or the adjoining
    countries, and the inhabitants of Europe. Antiquaries, seeking
-- only for traces of the arts among the ancients, have described
    the paintings which adorn the envelopes of the mummies, and
    their sycamore coffins. Finally, the discovery of several Egyptian
    manuscripts,    hieroglyphical and alphabetical,     inclosed in the
    wrappings   of  the  mummies,     having excited the  curiosity of the
    learned, they have endeavoured, as well as they could without
    destroying the mummy, to search minutely all those which have
    reached Europe.
        Similar motives induced me to study those which belong to
    the Cabinet of Antiquities of the Public Library of Grenoble.
        One of them, remarkable for the richness of its ornaments, is
    still more so froin the kind of embalment which it has received,
    and which, consisting merely of an injection into the vessels of
    a preservative liquid, has left every limb its natural form and
    flexibility. This was the mummy which I examined in the sum
     mer of the year 1810, aided by M. Champollion jun.
        The instant it was removed from its case or coffin, and placed
    on a convenient table, we perceived that it had been vi
    sited before by means of an aperture made in the lower part
    of the dorsal spine, an aperture which occasioned the loss of
    several vertebrae and some of the ribs.      We know, in fact, that
    the Arabs, in order to search for gold and talismans, carefully
    inspected all the mummies whidh' they discovered, before selling
    them to be sent to Europe for the uses of pharmacy, or for
    the cabinets of the curious.       The mummy in question seems to
                    * Magatin Encyclvpidique for May  1814.
                                     I  2                              have

     T32    On a neiv Species   6f Insect of the Genus Coryncies.
       have been treated in this way; but the aperture had not pene
       trated to the forepart of the body: the cavities of the belly and
       stomach were untouched, and filled with a blackish earth, with
       which were mixed the fleshy parts, which had fallen into a fat and
       unctuous powder in consequence of the humidity which had pe
       netrated them.       The arms crossed over the breast were still in
     . their place.
          On examining the hands attentivelv, we perceived in the in-
     . terstices  of the fingers several dead caleapierce of a rose colour
       in all its brilliancy, and two or three lines in length.   This in
       sect being new to us, we collected all that could be found, with
       the view of obtaining better information respecting it.
          A short time afterwards an opportunity presented itself of
       showing them to M. Jurine, of Geneva, whose opinion con-
    '
       vinced us that we did well in preserving these coleopterce, which
       will furnish to the nomenclature of entomologists a new species
       of a genus by no means numerous.           We subjoin M. Jurine's
       description.
          " Generic denommation. — Corynctes of Fabricius. Necrolia
     of Olivier.
       " Specific   ditto. — Species non descript, which holds the mid
     dle rank between the corynctes rufipes and the corynctes abdo-
    minalis, but which is neither the one nor the other."     M. de
    Jurine is desirous to name it the coryncies glaber.
        Here we have a new species well determined, and the more
     interesting because the genus corynctes is new, and we know
     only two species, both of them exotic; while the insect ob
    served at Grenoble, which is also exotic, will form the third.
        There cannot be a doubt that it was brought to Europe with
    the mummy, since it was found in the inside of the body under
    several envelopes: but how and when did it take up its residence
     there ?    It will not be easy to answer this question. M. de
    jurine,    whom   it has not escaped, is inclined to think that the
    larvae of the insect have been introduced into the mummy since
    it came out of its sepulchral deposit ; viz. when it fell into the
.   hands of the Arabs half a century ago, and was sent direct from
    Cairo to Grenoble by M. de Mure, then French Consul in
    Egypt
      It may also       fairly conjectured, that the residence of the
                          be
    insect under the envelopes of the mummy is of a much older
    date, particularly when we consider that, the larvae of the co~
    rynctes being carnivorous, the desiccation of the body when the
    Arabs removed it from the tomb, or the well, could not be verv
    attractive to   it,
                     nor suit its voracious appetite.  It  also natural
                                                            is
    to suppose,   from  the  method   of  embalment practised on    thia
    mummy, by submitting the body to several operations made itx
                                                                      the

                     Notices respecting New Books.
the open air for 70 days, that in this. interval the larvae might
have been lodged between the fingers of the hand while still
fleshy, and wrapped up with them ; and they might at first have
entered the flesh, and afterwards been brought to maturity while
the state of the body admitted.         The insect must have after
wards attained its full growth, and ended its life in the state in
which it was found.      I think it right thus early to -mention this
discovery, for the benefit of those who study entomology.            Jn
the mean time I am preparing a more extensive work on mum
mies in general, their embalment, and the paintings with which
their envelopes and cases are adorned.
               XXIV.    Notices respecting New Books.
Observations sur ies Insecles, &c. — Observations upon Insects
   considered as ruminating Animals, and on the Functions of
    the various Parts of the intestinal Title in this Order of
    Animals. By Marcel dk Serres. 1 vol. 4to. Paris, 1814.
This     work, which has been favoured with various marks of ap
probation from the French Institute, is written to prove that
the organization    of insects is by far too simple to admit of their
operating   a real rumination    of their food.   Some very eminent
anatomists, however, among      whom   are  Malpighi, Swammerdam,
and Cuvier, are of opinion that there is an entire order among
the insects, similar to that of the ruminating class of animals.
M. Marcel de Serres, on the other hand, seems to have the merit
of demonstrating by anatomical and physiological proofs of a
palpable nature, that all the insects as yet known have an or
ganization totally different from that which they would have
if their food underwent a true rumination. But in order to en
able our readers to decide upon the evidence which M. de Serres
adduces, we shall follow him through his work, and detail the
facts upon which he chiefly rests.
    Rumination, according to M. de Serres, is an act of volition:
we see, in fact, that animals which ruminate, i. e. which pass
their food from one stomach to another, and finally to the
mouth, suspend this rumination when they wish to retard their
digestion, and ruminate afterwards when they are no longer pur
sued.    Thus, these animals place in reserve, in their large and
ample stomachs, such food as has not been masticated, and
which for this reason ought to be again thrown up into the
mouth to be remasticated at leisure.         Rumination is therefore
connected in this respect with the habitudes of the animal ; and
all the ruminating animals arc herbivorous, and placable in their
                              I 3                        dispositions.

134                 Notices respecting New Books.
dispositions.    Living upon food not very sapid, frequently dig-*
turbed   in the act of eating, and being nearly all defenceless, they
can nevertheless store up their food to chew it at another op
portunity. Here we see the use of the great stomach of the ru
minating animals, and rumination is a necessary consequence.
    The author afterwards inquires, if the insects which have beeri
regarded as ruminators had the same occasion for fear, and if
it was necessary that they should have an opportunity of storing
up a certain quantity of food to remasticate it in a time of rest
 and tranquillity ?    From an attentive observation of the habits
•of these insects he answers in the negative, nor do their habits
 announce that ruminating would be of any advantage to them.
 These animals having a very decided voracity, the complication
 which is observable in their digestive organs seems to be relative
 to this activity in digestion only. Nature has done every thing
 to accelerate this digestion, and the peculiar means and appa
 ratus which she has given for this purpose have deceived most
 anatomists.     But in order to render this perfectly evident, let
us   examine   the structure of the intestinal tube in the species of
 insects which have generally been regarded as ruminating.
     An entire order of insects, the orthopterte, has been regarded
 as subjecting the food to a real rumination.      They present next
 after the oesophagus a stomach which is sometimes placed on
 the same line with this viscus, and sometimes a little on one
 side.   The stomach communicates with another organ armed
 almost always with hard and coriaceous scales : this organ has
 been assimilated to the lonnel of the true ruminants ; but it is
 remarkable that its strong and muscular valvules, and the scales
 or sharp teeth with which it is armed, render its organization
very different from that of the bonnet of ruminating animals.
These teeth with which it is provided, and the thick and mus
 cular membranes which enter into its composition,         make it on
 the contrary resemble the crop of birds, its action being that of
 triturating the food in a more perfect manner.        Under the giz
 zard we meet with organs which do not vary in their position,
 but which differ in number.      Sometimes very extensive, and in
that case being two in number only, these organs have been as
similated to the feuillet and the maw of the ruminating animals,
 and consequently they have been regarded as true stomachs.
Observation proves that, in whatever state digestion          is, these
pretended ventricles never contain any food.         We see them, on
the contrary, filled with a   peculiar humour, which does not ap
pear to be diminished after a long fast.         Besides, how could
those organs,  if  they were real ventricles, diminish   in  size untir
they became capillary, and multiply so as that some individuals
present no less than forty    ?   It   is   In
                                           fact difficult to conceive,
                                                                    that

                       Notices respecting New Books.              135
that the alimentary paste can re-ascend into the mouth, after
being divided into so many different portions in order to occupy
the interior of these multifarious stomachs. In the second place,
these organs often present at their extremities a great number
of very minute capillary vessels, which indicate that a secretion
iv taking place: these vessels contribute in an evident manner
to increase the liquid which we observe in these ventricles.
This liquid is so abundant, that it fills the whole capacity of
these viscera : it proves that they by no means exercise the
function of stomachs, for where could the alimentary paste be
lodged   ?
   If   these organs do not immediately assist digestion, what is
their use, and of what nature is the humour which they con
tain ? These are questions which the author thinks he has am
ply resolved.
   All the insects which have been considered as ruminating,
display, as alreadyobserved, a great voracity : consequentlynature
has made the process of digestion with them equally prompt
and easyl As the teeth of insects triturate their food but im
perfectly, this defect is supplied by rough and cutting scales,
with which the internal membrane of the gizzard is armed.
These scales, put in motion by a muscular tunic of great con-
tractibility, exercise an action so much the greater, as they ap
proach closer in the contractions of this organ, and they are
besides very multifarious.
   The gizzard is not the only organ which contributes to pro
mote digestion ; and the two viscera, erroneously assimilated to
the first stomach, the maw of ruminating animals, have not the
smallest share in it.    They do riot act by themselves, but rather
by the humour which they secrete.         This humour, on account
of the disposition of the vesicles which contain       it,as well as of
the gizzard, may ascend into the stomach, and act in this way
upon the alimentary paste.       But iii order to exercise an effica
cious action on the food, this humour must have solvent pro
perties  ; and analysis indicates that  it   sufficiently analogous to
                                             is
the bile. At least this alkaline humour contains             a resinous
matter, perhaps the yellow matter, soda, albumen, and a great
quantity of water.     This composition, partly similar to that of
the bile, announce? that this animal fluid must have a great ac
tion on the food which agrees perfectly with the physiological
                     ;
facts related   bythe author in his work.
    Thus   these two   organs, which are assimilated to the first
stomach      and to the maw of the ruminating animals, never
being filled with alimentary paste, do not seem to exercise the
same functidns with the real stomachs.         Their excessive multi
plication in a. number of individuals    isanother proof of it; for it

  1S6                  Notices respecting New Books.
 would    be difficult  to conceive that the alimentary paste was
 obliged to separate into thirty or forty portions, in order to be
 better elaborated.
      These facts seem to prove, therefore, that those organs can by
 no means be assimilated to stomachs, being far from fulfilling their
 functions : the abundant humour which they contain induces a
 supposition that they are a kind of vesicles destined to secrete
 a species of bile, which supplies the place of the bile in insects,
 the pancreatic juice, and even the saliva which we observe in
 animals of a superior order.          The small vessels which exist at
the upper extremity of these vesicles, would have no other use
than to pump up the humour which bathes all the parts of the
 bodies of insects, and thus to collect the materials of the fluid
 secreted in these biliary vesicles.
      The author then proceeds to detail a variety of interesting
 experiments in illustration of his ideas. By putting these vessels
into coloured fluids, without allowing the biliary vesicles to re
ceive any impression from them, he saw the vessels absorb the
liquor in which they were plunged, and after a certain time the
vesicles themselves received the colour.             It still remained to
ascertain how the secretion of the bile took place when these
small vessels no longer existed.         In order to verify this point, the
author put the hepatic organs in coloured liquors, and he saw
that the absorption equally took place by the membranes of
these same viscera. Thus, whether the vesicles have or have not
secretory vessels, they nevertheless suck up from the humour
which bathes all the parts of the body, the materials of their
secretions.     What also proves that these organs do not in any
way perform the functions of the stomach, is, that we frequently
observe them filled with an abundant humour in individuals which
have died after a long fast. In short, according to M. de Serres,
the true use of these pouches cannot be mistaken, since the indi
viduals who undergo a complete fast perish the more speedily,
the more considerable the quantity of the biliary humour.               The
bile being, as is well known, an irritating humour,            its action is
most energetic on the membranes of the stomach when it acts
upon them in a niore direct manner.
     But M. de Serres does not confine himself to making us ac
quainted with the uses of the various parts of the intestinal canal
of insects: he also- gives an anatomical description of this canal,
considered in the greater number of families.           He has also given
us some very valuable details on the structure of this canal, on
the membranes of which it is composed, and finally upon the
nerves and tracheae which proceed to it.           When an opportunity
offers of drawing general conclusions, he does not ueglect it.
He remarks for instance, that the extent of the tongue and the
 >-"-               -       - ,  -<- '••                      development

                     Notices respecting New Books.               137
 development of its villous coats are more considerable in the
 herbivorous animals, on account of the tastelessness        of their
 food, whereas the prehensile organs are more developed in the
 carnivorous animals.     In the same way he observes with respect
 to the alimentary canal, that the more the animal lives uport
 vegetables the more extensive is this canal.     Thus, according to
 his observations, the connection between the proportions of the
 intestinal tube and the species of food is the same in the masti
 cating insects as in the animals with vertebrae.
     Fully sensible of the importance of the determination of all
 these minutiae to the study of animals in a general point of view,
  M. de Serres has lost no opportunity of generalizing the facts
 which he observed, and always with that rigour which the pre
 sent state of the sciences demands.         The following are the
 theorems with which he concludes his work :
     " 1. That there do not exist any insects which operate a true
 rumination ; and that the or chop teres, which had been erroneously
supposed to ruminate,        cannot possibly from their structure
throw up their food into their mouth.
     " 2. That the gizzard of insects, assimilated improperly to the
bonnet of the ruminating animals, cannot under any circum
stances bring the food up to the stomach, either on account of
the arrangement of its valvules, or from the relative weakness of
its muscular power when compared with the resistance of its
scaly membrane.
     " 3. That the viscera hitherto considered as third and fourth
stomachs are hepatic vessels, or kinds of vesicles which serve as
a reservoir to the biliary fluid ; those organs having, under cer
tain circumstances, secretory vessels destined to suck up the ma
 terials of the humour which they are to elaborate, and in other
 cases operating of themselves the secretion for which they are
destined.
     " 4. That in the very voracious species there are several orders
or rows of hepatic vessels, and in those which have the most,
 the number of rows of these vessels never exceeds three.
     " 5. That the upper hepatic vessels are always more developed
than the lower, and their extent in the inverse ratio of their
 number.
     " 6. That when there is only a single order of hepatic vessels,
 these vessels are merely simple elongated tubes, almost capillary,
and floating freely in the interior of the body.
     " 7- That the development of the hepatic vessels is always re
lative to the extent and complication of the gizzard ; these two
kinds of organs being themselves in proportion with the quantity
and species of food used by" the insects.
 -"• -
                                                          "S.   That

  139                  Notices respecting New Books.
     " 8.    That in general, when the gizzard         is scaly, the internal
  membrane of the stomach cannot be classed with the three kinds
 of tunics which enter into the structure of the intestinal canal
 of insects, this membrane then approaching the nature of the
  fibrous membranes.
     ic 9. That the
                        gizzard being simply muscular, i. e. deprived of
 the scaly      or  coriaceous    membrane, the internal tunic of the
 stomach is always mucous."
     The author observes in the last place, that the presence of the
 biliary vessels, and of the gizzard, is in proportion to the organs
 of manducation, or to the quantity and description of food.
 Thus, the relation which exists between the organs of manduca
 tion and the digestive apparatus, seems to prove that, in the
 classification of insects, we ought not to pay much attention to
 the organs of the mouth, except in those insects which operate
 a real mastication of their food.           This observation is the more
 important, because it may lead to a more natural classification
 of insects ; an order of animals whose organization is peculiar,
 and in which analogy, which directs us in the study of the higher
 classes of animals, can be of little use to us.
     The drawings with which the work is illustrated do great
 credit to the skill of M. de Serres, and tend greatly to elucidate
 his subject.      Physiologists, and those who prosecute the study of
 general anatomy, will find this work a valuable assistant in their,
 pursuits.
                          B-Miolheca Spenceriana.
     Every collector of rare books is more or less acquainted with
the bibliographical labours of Mr. Dibdin.                 His publications,,
like the works        on  which    he  treats,  are objects to be coveted,
and hardly appear before they are out of print.                His last and
most splendid work, Billiollieca Spenceriana, in three volumes*,
large imperial octavo, published at eight guineas, has risen to
sixteen or twenty, and will soon be unattainable at any price.
The object of the work is to make the public acquainted with
some of the principal treasures of Earl Spencer-s library, the
richest private collection in Europe ; and is exclusively confined
to an account of books printed in the fifteenth century, and to
some of the more important first editions in the sixteenth cen
tury. The author remarks in his preface, that
                                                             " such a work,
if executed with copiousness and precision, cannot fail to be in
teresting to the bibliographer, to the scholar, and to the lover
»f ancient literature and the fine arts." It is but justice to
           -.
              -        * A  fourth volume is in the press.

                              Royal Society.                        189
aay that the werk has been so executed ; and that its yalue has
been greatly enhanced by the fac similes and embellishments
with which many of the descriptions of scarce works have been
illustrated. The first volume is confined to block books, theology,
and ancient classics: the second contains ancient classics: th«
third, collections ; lexicography; miscellaneous authors. The
fourth will contain more miscellaneous authors ; books printed
in the Italian language ; books printed by William Carton ;
books printed in the Abbey of St. Alban's ; books printed by
 Wynkyn de Worde, and by Pynson ; supplement ; emenda
 tions ; index of authors, and of editions described; of printers,
find of editions, &fc.
    This work, from the press of Mr. Bulmer, may be considered
 as a most interesting specimen of typography.         To notice that
it has been printed with great care, and that the press-work is
 well executed, would be no more than saying that it came from
the Shakspeare press.        The singular nature of the materials,
 the numerous fac similes (some of them embracing three or
four colours), and the diversity of letter and arrangement
often required in the same page— all required a felicity of ex
ecution more to be desired than hoped for. But Mr. Bulmfr has
 vanquished every difficulty, and produced a work which will
 deservedly be ranked among the most singular curiosities of
 that wonderful art which it illustrates.                             • *
              XXV.    Proceedings   of Learned  Societies.
                           ROYAL SOCIETY.
 To    correct an inaccuracy in our last Report, we insert the fol
 lowing letter :
                                           "Tower, August 13,1814.
    " Sir, — I have read in the last number of your Journal, the
 abstract which you have given to the public of the contents of
 a paper of mine lately read before the Royal Society, which
 abstract I find to be remarkably erroneous. I conceive there
 fore that, as you must naturally wish to correct any wrong in
 formation which you may have accidentally given, you will be
glad to receive from me the means of so doing ; for which reason
 I point out to 'you the following errors,
     " The first is in the title given to my paper : it is not ' On the
 triple salts called prussiates,' but ' On the salts called triple
prussiates, and on acids formed by the union of certain bodie»
with the elements of the prussic acid.'
    "  The next is in the assertion that ' I derived my facts chiefly
from Proust's experiments           whereas they are deduced almost
                                                                entirely

  140                     Institute  of  France.
 entirely from a numerous series of experiments devised and ex
 ecuted by myself.       The last error is in the name carhyoxic,
 and in the explanation attached to it.         You state that by thi»
 name I proposed to designate the acid contained in the before-
 mentioned salts : but the real name which I proposed for it was
 the ferrurettcd chyazic acid, the word chyazic being composed
 of the first letters of the elements carbon, Aydrogeri, and azote,
 with the syllable ic added ; and the word ferruretted implying
 the iron which it contains, and at the same time distinguishing
 it from the sulphuretted chyazic acid also discovered by me,
 and of which a particular account is given in the paper from
 which your abstract was made.
                        " I am, sir,
                                    " Your most obedient servant,
     To  Mr.   Tilloch.                          « R. Porrett Jun."
 PROCEEDINGS OF THE FRENCH INSTITUTE FOR THE YEAR 1813.
                             BY M. CUVIER.
                         [Concluded   from p. C3.]
     Two years ago we noticed the experiments of M. Lechenault
 on the deleterious effects of the juice known at Java by the
 name of i/pas, when introduced into wounds, as well as those
 of Messrs. Delille and Magendie, which tend to prove that it
 is essentially on the spinal marrow that this poison acts.
     Having been frequently witnesses of the frightful rapidity of
 its action, Messrs. Delille and Magendie were tempted to doubt
 that it could have been transported so quickly into the mar
 row by the tortuous and intricate way of the lymphatics ; and
 they inquired if we ought not to admit, at least in eerUiin^cases,
 the absorbent faculty generally ascribed to the veins when we
were not so well acquainted with all the ramifications of the
lymphatic system. In order to come to some conclusion in this
respect, they applied the upas to parts which adhered to the
animal body by blood-vessels only : for example, they cut off all
the mesentery adhering to the intestine of a goose, leaving only
the arteries and veins ; and after having placed the upas in the
interior of this goose, they cut it and tied both ends : nay, what
appears still more conclusive, they cut a thigh leaving the vein
and artery only entire, and afterwards applied poison to the foot :
finally, in order to remove even the objection of invisible lymphatic
tessels, which might have belonged to the texture of these two
blood-vessels, they removed a segment of both, after having sup
plied their place with quills, so that there was no longer any
sommunication between the member and the animal^ than by

                              Institute of France.
 the blood which circulated from the one to the other.          In all
the experiments, convulsions and death came on as promptly as
if the upas had been applied to the entire animal. Some how
ever will still object, perhaps, that when the upas was introduced
into the intestine, it might always be supposed that there re
mained some concealed lymphatic vessel; that, when it was
applied to the foot, it was inserted into a wound, from which
it could penetrate into the blood by open veins and arteries; and
that this is by no means what is meant when we admit the
venous absorption, for in that case we mean an action attri
buted to the veins in their natural state, and by their organic
pores.   What is still more remarkable in the experiments of
Messrs. Magendie and Delille,           that the blood of an animal
                                       is,
already poisoned,   and  ready to die, when  transfused into the veins
of another animal, does not kill the latter, and scarcely occasions
toit  anv inconvenience.                                       -
   M. Magendie has made another very interesting application
of this action of certain substances, when introduced into the
blood.
   We know that an emetic injected into the veins of an animal
makes   vomit in
         it       few minutes, whilst
                          a              requires   whole hour
                                                   it              a
when an emetic   swallowed to produce the same effect: and we
                         is
instantly conclude, that this convulsive movement does not de
pend on the immediate action of this remedy on the coats of
the stomach. Observations made on the viscus itself, during the
operation of vomiting, have led some physiologists still further.
They perceived that the coats of the stomach underwent very
little agitation and hence they concluded also, that       not in      it   is
the irritation    of ;
                  these coats that the immediate cause resides of
the expulsion of the contents of the stomach.    Their opinions,
however, were but feebly supported, and have almost fallen into
oblivion since Lieutaud and Haller introduced one directly con
trary.
    M. Magendie, wishing to ascertain the truth, employed the
convenient method of injections; and having first made an open
ing m the abdomen, he ascertained                 by
                                            the touch, that during
vomiting the stomach itself remains in         state of inertia, but
                                                       a
that at every successive retching       itviolently compressed
                                             is                                  by
the contraction of the diaphragm and the muscles of the lower
belly besides, the long inspirations which precede every vomit
     :
introduce     sufficiency of air into the stomach to prevent its
              a
capacity from diminishing, notwithstanding          the quantity of
matter which it<ejects.       we open the abdomen wide enough
                               If
to let out the stomach, the nausese continue       but they become
                                                           ;
impptent, because the    muscles  no  longer compress the viscus                 :
when we replace the stomach, the vomiting immediately begins.
                                                        Compression

                        Institute   of France.
Compression is not sufficient of itself, however ; for, if we com
press with our hands a stomach displaced as above in a dog inta
whose veins no emetic has been injected, we can very well expel
its contents without producing thereby a true vomiting, because
there are neither nauseae nor inspirations attending this kind of
convulsion : but if we pull the stomach instead of compressing
it, and if we extend the pulling to the oesophagus, the nausea
and all the other symptoms of vomiting appear, without there
being any occasion for an emetic.      Thus, vomiting would result
from the compression exercised on the stomach by a convulsive
contraction of the muscles which surround the belly ; and this
contraction itself may be excited by an irritation of the oeso
phagus.
    It being of importance to know what muscles chiefly acted,
what nerves put them in motion, and by what causes they were
irritated, M. Magendie in the first place cut or removed the
abdominal muscles, without much diminishing the activity of
the vomiting : on the contrary, when we take from the dia
phragm a great part of its strength by the section of the phrenic
nerves, there are nothing but small retchings at long intervals,
and the vomiting rarely takes place notwithstanding the abdo
minal contractions.    Thus, the part acted by the diaphragm in.
 this compression is by far the greatest.     When we thus destroy
at once the action of the diaphragm and that of the muscles,
the vomiting no longer takes place, even if we make the animal
 swallow substances eminently and promptly emetic, such m
 corrosive sublimate.    Finally, and this seems to form an al
 most marvellous completion of all his experiments, M. Ma
gendie entirely removed the stomach : he substituted for it a
bladder, which he attached permanently to the base of the
oesophagus, by making it communicate with this conduit by a                m
solid tube ; and after again sowing up the abdomen, he injected^
 some emetic into the veins : the animal had nauseae, made in-
•pirations, and ejected a coloured liquid, (with which the bladder
had been partly filled,) quite as well as it could have done,       if,
with  a   natural stomach, an emetic had been administered in-
 the common way.
    Thus, an emetic does not cause vomiting      by
                                                  irritating the fibres
 of the stomach, nor even the nerves, but         by acting by means
.of absorption and circulation on the nervous system, and by ex
 citing an action which   isreflected specifically on the oesophagus
 and diaphragm, so as to make them exert various movements,
 among which there are some, the definitive result of which          is
 the compression of the stomach     : this does not prevent there
 being vomitings produced      by  the immediate irritation of the
 nerves of some of these parts, or      by
                                        any given nervous irritation
                                                                 which."

                            Institute of Prance.                       143
  which would be propagated           so as to affect the system nearly
-  like an emetic.
      It remains to M. Magendie to distinguish with more precision
  the part acted by the oesophagus and the diaphragm in the act
  ©f vomiting, and to examine the phaenomena           of this movement
  in birds and other animals which have no diaphragm.
      To these experiments with antimony considered physiologically,
  M. Magendie added some others upon its medical or deleterious
  action ; and he ascertained by many observations made upon
  human beings, and by several experiments upon animals, that the
  tartrite of this metal, taken in large doses, is of itself a deadly
  poison ; but that almost always its first effect is a vomiting, which
  rejects the greater part before any mischief has been done : in
  this way many suicides are disappointed in their melancholy
  intentions.
      M. Magendie has also communicated to the Class a series of
  experiments relative to the use of the epiglottis.       This cartilage,
  placed    at the  root of the  tongue  in men   and  quadrupeds, is ge
  nerally regarded     as destined  by  nature to  prevent the food from
  falling into the wind-pipe. Birds and reptiles have no epiglottis,
  and yet they experience no inconvenience from this privation ;
  but their glottis is preserved by other means, such as the teeth
  or excrescences with which they are most frequently bristled, so
  that no valid objection can be taken to the commonly received
  opinion.      Certain individuals who have been deprived of the
  epiglottis by accident, and who have nevertheless swallowed as
  well as before, gave rise to very strong objections ; and some
  anatomists have even concluded, that the epiglottis is intended
  to assist the voice only, and not the act of deglutition.
      M. Magendie having removed the epiglottis from some dogs,
  ascertained that their deglutition was not impaired: he also as
  certained by an immediate inspection, that the glottis contracts
  completely at the instant of deglutition, so that nothing can pass
  it even if the epiglottis did not exist: finally, by cutting the
  nerves which proceed to the contractor muscles of the glottis,
  he saw that the latter remained open and admitted the food,
  notwithstanding the presence of the epiglottis which he had al
  lowed to remain,
      It is difficult to withhold our confidence from experiments
  which agree so well with each other and with known facts : it is
  for physiologists, however, to inquire what may be the true use of
  an organ too distinctly developed, and too constant in a whole
  class of living beings, not to have an essential and particular
   destination.
      M. Magendie was led by his researches to examine the parti
  cular distribution of the laryngal and recurrent nerves in the
                                                                   variou«

  144                    Institute  of Francs.
 various muscles of the larynx, and this part of his labours adds
  some precision to this interesting point in anatomy.
     While much has been doing to extract sugar from beet-root
 and other saccharine vegetables, M. Marsan, professor of medi
 cine at Padua, has drawn up a memoir upon another plant, more
 resembling the sugar-cane in its botanical characters, and in the
 quantity and quality of the sugar which it yields, than any hi
 therto discovered.     It is a large gramineous plant from the
 South of Africa, described for the first time in 1775 by Peter
 Arduino, under the name of holcus caf-er, and well charac
 terized by its velvet down and globular seeds.     It is now culti
 vating in various parts of Italy, Bavaria, and Hungary.
     Indigenous coffee seems hitherto to have been less easily ob
 tained in Europe than sugar : the torrefaction of many seeds
 and roots has been attempted with a view to procure substitutes,
 but the liquor produced by them had nothing of true coffee but
 its blackness and bitterness.
     M. Levrat, a physician at Chatillon sur Chalaronne, thinks
 that the seed of the yellow water flag of our marshes {iris pseu-
 dacorus) is that which most approaches the coffee berry,
 after drying it by heat and freeing it from the friable shell
which envelops it : it is then torrefied, and infused like coffee :
he has at least ascertained that the seeds of the iris may cer
tainly be used with effect to obtain the febrifuge properties of,
 coffee, and thus serve indirectly as a substitute for the bark.
 This last discovery would be the more important, as, from the
circumstance of the iris growing in all marshes, it would relieve
nature from the reproach of having placed her remedy so far
away from the diseases, as in the case of bark.
     Since the custom has ceased of destroying whole swarms of
bees in order to get their honey, various methods have been de
vised for removing the bees into another hive without risk of
being stung.     M. Chambon, a physician at Paris, has proposed
a simple and easy way: this consists in having hives which can
be opened at top, placing them on a glass furnished with a me
tallic: plate, under which the smoke may be safely introduced:
if an empty hive is then placed over the upper aperture, the
smoke will force the bees to ascend into it.     The same gentle
man has made some experiments to ascertain if it was advan
tageous to cover sheep with cloths, as the ancients did with
much boasted profit.      M. Chambon did not find, however, that
the wool was increased either in value or beauty, so as to in
demnify him for the expense of the cloths.
    M. Chambon also read a memoir on the dangers to which,
anatomists are liable in their dissections, and on the means of
preventing and remedying them : these are sometimes very for
                                                           midable :

                           Institute      of France.                        1 45
tnidable; but happily they      are of very rare occurrence; .-and the
 remedies and preservatives belong to that class which medicine
 adopts against contagion and venomous wounds.
     M. Oifila, a young Spanish physician, has presented to the
 Institute an extensive work on poisons, considered with respect
-to medicine and medical jurisprudence.        We have only perused the
 first volume, which treats of the poisons of mercury, arsenic,
 antimony, and copper.        The author has detailed many experi
ments on the differences which the presence of various aliments
 acting as reagents occasion : in the operation of poisons dif
ferences which may, in certain cases, disguise their properties,
 and prevent us from ascertaining them : he has pointed out all
the precautions necessary for coroners, lawyers, and medical
men, when the ends of justice are to be attained.             He has par
ticularly   endeavoured,    with  the    greatest  care, to  verify all the
known methods of arresting the deleterious effects of these poi
sons, and to find new remedies where the old have failed. Thus,
according to M. Orfila, the only antidote against corrosive subli
mate is albumen or white of eggs diluted in water ; and against
verdigrise, common lump sugar, a result to which theory never
 would have led us.
     M. Pictet, faithful to the interests of science, has this year
communicated much valuable information connected with me
 dicine and surgery: one of the cases he has reported would
 most assuredly have been regarded as a miracle, in those times
when pious credulity ascribed every event to the immediate in
 terposition of the Deity: this was the case of a man whose thorax
 was completely transfixed by the shaft of a gig* : another case
 was one in which hydrophobia seems to have been completely
 cured in India by repeated bleeding.            The importance of this
 discovery was enhanced to us in France, by the circumstance of
 Baron Percy's having, but a few days before we knew of                       it,
 read to the Institute an account of a most dreadful occurrence
 at Bar sur Ornaine, where nearly twenty persons were bit                   by   a
 mad wolf, and upon whom             it proposed to try the above re
                                          is
 medy.     Another case which M. Pictet communicated from Ge
 neva did not terminate quite so happily as the first two.                    A
 soldier who laboured under all the symptoms of croup under
 went tracheotomy without obtaining any relief.
     M. Pictet has also communicated to us an interesting account
 of the plague which raged             the Russian port of Odessa, as
                                      in
 furnished him      byhis nephew M. Charles Pictet, who contributed
 to stop its ravages.
      t
    * This and the case
                         subsequently alluded to, must have been taken from
the   English   Journals; they are   no    doubt familiar   to all our readers!—
Translator.
      Vol. 44. No. 196. August 1814.                    K             M. Portal

146                      Institute of France.
    M. Portal has published   a most  important work " upon the
 Nature and Treatment of Diseases of the Liver," in which he
has given the result of his long experience on the affections of
an organ, whose great influence in health and disease is so well
expressed in the epigraph chosen by the author: Quanto magis
ad sanitatem prodest, tanto et delerius in morlis afficitur.
    Our truly respectable colleague M. Penon, who, notwith
standing a delicate temperament, and a youth which did not
promise him a good old age, has preserved by care alone the
faculties of his body and mind entire, long beyond the term al
lotted to the generality of men, has bequeathed us the secrets,
the efficacy of which he so happily proved : his " Offerings to old
men of some means of prolonging life," is a code of longevity
dictated by science and experience ; but in order to reap from
it the same advantages with the author, we must enjoy, like him,
a tranquil situation in life, the mild exercise of the understand
ing, and the consciousness of a well spent life.
    It is by no means astonishing that the natural history of the
animals of the deep should be so scanty as it is.        Traversing
at pleasure the profound element in which they escape from hu
man observation, and even when they are caught, they are of
most difficult description.     M. Cuvier has presented to the
Class some inquiries on such fish as have been neglected, or have
multiplied beyond example in the catalogue of naturalists.      One
of them, remarkable for its large size, and very much known in
Italy by the names of umbra, or fegaro, in Provence and in
Langucdoc      by that of poisson royal (royal fish), was much
better known at Paris, formerly, by the name of maigre. It has
even given rise to some popular proverbs ; nowadays, for causes
of which we are ignorant, it has become rare in the Channel,
and it is brought but seldom to the capital.     The naturalists of
the sixteenth century have described it very minutely ; and Du-
hamel in the eighteenth has also treated of it at length.       Ne
vertheless, our systematic authors have either given it as new, or
confounded it with smaller and more common species.          In ad
dition to its exterior description, M. Cuvier has given its ana
tomy, and chiefly of the air-bladder, rendered curious by the
ramified productions placed along its two sides.
   Another species, which has been six times reproduced in the
works of naturalists as so many distinct species, is a small fish
of the Mediterranean, which its red colour and general form
have procured the denomination of king of the mullets, (mullus
imberlis Linn.) but which is more like the perch than the mul
let.
   M. Noel de la Moriniere, who has been occupied for several
years with a treatise on the useful fishes, has presented to the
 r    \'  - '
                                                          .-  Class

                          Institute of France,                      147
  Class a memoir nearly of the same nature with the two former,
 in which   he gives the history of a species very much neglected
 by naturalists, although so abundant at certain seasons in the
 Gulph of Gascony, that the fishermen of the Isle-Dieu alone
 take upwards of 14000 annually, weighing from 30 to 80 pounds
 each.    It is the germon, or grande oreille of the French, or
 the ala longa of the Sardinian fishermen, (scomber alalonga,
 Gmelin,) so called because the principal character which di
 stinguishes it from the tunny (scomber thymus) consists of
 pectoral fins of great length and pointed.       Commerson having
 found near Madagascar a fish which bears the same character,
 applied to it the name of germon, and was followed by Lacepede,
 so that the germon of Europe is now designated more particu
 larly by the name of ala-longa.         It remains to be shown if
 the germon of Europe and that of Madagascar are of different
species : the distance makes this to be presumed ; and Geoffroi
 Saint-Hilaire has ascertained the fact, by comparing the second
 drawing left by Commerson, with the description of the first
 given by M. Noel, and a drawing left by Pere Plumier.                It
 would be desirable, however, to see this result confirmed by an
 actual comparison of the two fishes.
     M. Cuvier has also described to the Class, a fish very little
 known, recently found in the Gulph of Genoa, upwards of four
 feet long, of the form of the blade of a cutlass, and remarkable
 for an elevated crest, surmounted by a kind of long horn which
it has on its head, and by ventral fins excessively small, placed
under the pectoral fins.     There existed before but one descrip
 tion of it very incomplete by the late M. Giorna, naturalist, of
Turin, who had given the name of hphote to the genus, and
had dedicated the species to M. Lacepede, as an homage which
 all naturalists owe him.
    M. Huber, of Geneva, the son of the author of a most in
teresting work on bees, and himself the author of a work on
ants, filled with most curious traits of the instinct of these little
animals, has presented to the Class a memoir on the singular
industry of a small caterpillar which he calls chenille a hamac,
from the way in which it suspends itself to pass through its
chrysalis state. It lives in the inside of the leaves of some fruit-
trees, and it is in the month of August that it ceases to eat, and
weaves its hammock.        Five hours are sufficient for constructing
it : two cords stretched between the curled edges of a concave
leaf are the chief supports: it is suspended by silken threads,
and two others fixed to the bottom of the leaf serve it as a kind
of anchor.      It is of a cylindrical form. M. Huber, not con
tented with attentively following and describing the successive
operations of the little architect who constructs this complicated
                                  K2                           edifice,

148                    Institute of France.
edifice, tried to ascertain how far these operations are connected
with the instinct of the caterpillar, and may be varied by it ac
cording to circumstances.       A caterpillar which be took away
from the construction it was making, began it again so long as
there remained any silky matter.        If he placed it on a con
struction made by another, it continued it in general from the
point where the other had left off ; but if the latter was far ad
vanced, it preferred beginning de novo.       The butterfly which
issues from the caterpillar seems to be the phalcena clerhella.
of Linnaeus, and one of its enemies is the ichneumon ramicornis.
    Our colleague M. de la Billardiere has observed a remarkable
fact relative to the instinct of wild bees, or those large velvet
bees which form their nests under the turf, in stones, &c. He found
towards the end of autumn in a nest of the species called apis
sylvarum, by Kirby, an old female and a working bee whose
wings were glued together with brown wax, so as to prevent
them from flying ; and he thinks this was a precaution taken by
the other bees to constrain these two individuals to remain in
the nest, and to take care of the larvae which next year were
to replenish the population of the colony.
    M. Olivier, member of the Class, lias mads on the insects
which are enemies to corn, experiments which belong equally to
agriculture and to zoology: he has hitherto treated of only those
species which attack corn in the ear.      M. Olivier describes nine
of those, all belonging to the order of two-winged insects ; but he
describes at the same time three other insects, enemies of the
above, and which of course stop their mischief.
    One of the most important questions in the anatomy of insects
concerns the use of a large vessel which the whole of this class
carry along the back, and which undergoes movements of dila
tation and contraction like those of ttla heart and arteries.
Malpighi and Swammerdam have given it the name of heart; but
it is evident from the observations of Lyonnet and several others,
that no branches issue from it ; and M. Cuvier seems to have
proved by many experiments, that .insects have no circulation.
M. Marcel de Serres has taken up this subject again: he ascer
tained by innumerable observations made upon the largest in
sects in the south of France, and assisted by the most delicate in
struments, that the dorsal vessel gives out no ramifications ; that
there exists in the body no other contractile vessel, and in ge
neral no system of blood-vessels.     Insects from which the dor
sal vessel is removed live for several hours, whilst scorpions and
spiders, which have a real heart, perish speedily if it be destroyed.
The contractions of the dorsal vessel are chiefly owing to the
muscles of the back placed along its sides, but the tracheae and
the nerves exert a sensible influence on them.         The humour
                                                               which

                           Institute   of France.                      149
which it contains appeared most frequently of a colour similar
to that of the greasy matter which always fills a part of the body :
it is not very liquid, particularly in the voracious larvae. The
diameter of the vessel is more equal in the larvae, in which the
fat is diffused more equally; and the inequalities of its various
parts are proportioned to those of the fat in the corresponding
parts of bodies.      The nerves and tracheae abound more in the dor
sal vessel of the larvae than in that of the perfect insect : its con
 tractions are stronger, but less frequent.       From these and other
facts, the author thinks it may be concluded, that the function
of the dorsal vessel is to produce fatty matter; and in order
thereto, that it absorbs a part of the nutritive liquor diffused
through the cavity of the body by the sides of the intestines ;
 and that it makes it afterwards transude through the scales of
the adipose substance, where the fat receives its final elabora
 tion.
     M. de Serres has interwoven some valuable observations on
the varieties of structure of the tracheae in different families of
insects, among which we ought particularly to remark those
which concern the mechanism of the vesicular tracheae: he con
cludes by a detail of all the anatomical characters of the divisions
which he thinks ought to be established among the articulated
 animals, and particularly insects.        We regret that this interest
 ing elucidation of comparative anatomy is too long for insertion
 m the present sketch*.
     M. Montegre, a physician at Paris, has made some curious
 observations on the habitudes of the lumbrici or earth-worms,
 and some new remarks on their anatomy.                These animals are
Tiermaphrodites, each being productive of young: nevertheless,
 there is no copula, or this seems to take place without any in
 tromission of parts, and merely by the excitement of the move
 ments necessary for fecundation.           This takes place chiefly in
 June and July. The worms unite by -means of a swelling at the
 anterior part of thei? body, and by which they adhere firmly to
 each other.       The young worms first show themselves in white
 organs placed in front, on both sides of the stomach, and slide
 between the intestines and external muscles along a reser
 voir situated in the thick part of the tail, where they are found
 full of life.     The lumbrici exhibited nothing to our observer
 which could induce him to ascribe to them the faculty of being
-affected by light or sound ; but he was convinced that they did
 not confine themselves to the earth alone, for he found in ther
  intestines the remains of animals and plants.
     * The whole of M. Serres-
                                valuable paper will be found in the pages of
   the Philosophical Magazine.-  Edit.
                                     K 3                       XXVI.    In

                          [    150   ]
        XXVI. Intelligence    and Miscellaneous Articles.
                       COUNT RUMFORD.
With regret we   announce the death of that distinguished friend
of science and of mankind, Benjamin Count Rumford. This
lamentable event is thus mentioned in the French papers               :
                                             "   Paris, August 23, 1814.
  " Count   Rumford, member of the French Institute, and of the
Royal Society of London, died in the night between Sunday and
Monday, at his country seat at Auteuil, in consequence of a ner
vous fever. This celebrated man dedicated his whole life to the
study of the sciences, and always to the interests of humanity.
He has left several works, which cannot but make his memory
be cherished.   He was in the 60th year of his age.  His remains
were interred yesterday morning at Auteuil."
                          MUNGO PARK.
   When Mr. James Grey Jackson returned to this country from
Morocco, some six or seven years since, he reported to the Earl
of Moira and to Sir Joseph Banks, on the authority of an Arabic-
letter, which was written from Kabra, the port of Timbuctoo,
by a liberated negro, to his former master, a Moorish merchant,
then residing at Mogadore, that a small vessel or boat had an
chored before Kabra, in the river (the Nile el Abeede), and that
this boat or vessel had hoisted a white flag; that there were seen
in the boat, by the inhabitants of Kabra, three Christians, one of
whom was described as a very tall man, who stood up in the
boat, which remained before the port of Kabra until night ; but
the next morning nothing more was seen of it.       This boat had,
as Mr. Jackson reported,    no communication with the shore, but
it was presumed that it had passed on to the eastward, towards
 Houssa.                                     n
    With the foregoing report of Mr. Jackson, let the following
letter from Mr. Court of Mogadore, to Mr. Mi,tford of the Audit
Office, written not four months ago, be compared, and it will
 appear not unreasonable to entertain a hope that Mr. Park and
 two of his companions are still alive.
                                         "   Mogadore,        May   15, 1814.
   "A
    N
        Moor, arrived this day from Houssa, informed me that
with a large caravan, with which he left Timbuctoo, there were
three Christians, who have been many years in the interior of
Africa ; that he travelled in company with them six days, and
separated from them about 70 days since, the caravan taking
the route to Tuart, and himself, with a part of  to Totta that
                                                        it,               ;
                                                                              the

                         Mungo Park. — Earthquake.                151
the caravan would probably go near Tunis or Algiers. That the
three persons appeared above the class of sailors, and were not
slaves, but free to go with the caravan as the other travellers
were ; they had with them some papers, writings, and drawings.
    't( These people, the Moor says, went up the Nile or Niger
in a small vessel, and were stopped ; that originally their num
ber was much greater, but they had died at Houssa, or elsewhere ;
and that the king or principal man at Houssa had put the
three Christians under the protection of a person of note in the
caravan, with directions to take them to Timbuctoo, and from
thence to send them by some caravan, so that they might reach
 their own country.
     " This account is extraordinary, as all inquiry about Mr. Park
has long ceased here.         The man could have no possible motive
 for inventing such a story ; and if he did invent it, it is remark
 able that he should invent a story so nearly describing, in many
 particulars, Mr. Park and his companions."
                               EARTHQUAKE.
     Extract.   of a Letter from St. Michael's, dated the 3d of April.
 — " Since    the alarming eruption in 1810, whick shook the island
 to its base, we enjoyed perfect tranquillity, with the hope of its
 long continuance, till last week, when our fears returned with
 increased force, occasioned by an unusual heaving of the sea,
 without a breath of wind. — This was immediately followed by a
 rumbling noise, not unlike the report of cannon, and a strong
 suffocating smell of sulphur.     This happened at five in the after
 noon.      In about a quarter of  an hour the whole island appeared
 to be in motion ; several vessels riding at anchor a short di
 stance from the shore were dashed to pieces in an instant, and
 the earth opening, not a vestige of them was to be seen. On
 the opposite side of the island, near the village of Sylve Arbour,
 the ground opened in three several places, and the discharges
 of water issued forth from the largest aperture with great vio
 lence, the discharges continuing till midnight, when they entirely
 ceased.      On examining the spot next morning with a friend,
 we found a considerable quantity of wood partly burnt, bones of
 animals, and heads of fishes.       While we were examining these
  objects, a   friar came up, and, having saluted us, told us that he
 had examined the spot, and had found, to his great surprise, a
 wax-cloth containing a fragment of what 'appeared to have been
  a chart, but which was so much injured by the water that it
  was impossible to decipher it ; but on showing it to us at his
  house, the word " Colum" was still legible.       As it is known by
  historical record, that Christopher Columbus, having been over
  taken by a storm which threatened the destruction of himself
                                     K 4                           and

 152             Method  of  obtaining  Formic Acid.
and his ship, committed the account of his voyage to America
 to the deep, in the distant hope of reaching some habitable
shore, it is conjectured here among the learned, that the wax
cloth discovered by the friar is the same that Columbus is said
to have put into a cask and given to the deep, when he and his
crew were momentarily expecting to perish."
    It appears from some recent experiments of M. Gehlen, that
the best method of obtaining formic acid in abundance, is to
procure in the first place a formiate of copper. For this purpose,
the expressed juice of ants is to be supersaturated by carbonate
of potash, and sulphate of iron at the maximum is to be poured
into the liquor.    The yellow liquid being filtered and evaporated
to the consistence of syrup, was then distilled with a sufficient
 quantity of sulphuric acid.     The liquor which had passed into
the receiver was very acid, without containing sulphureous acid.
 It was saturated by means of carbonate of copper, and the solu
tion furnished by evaporation fine blue crystals of formiate of
copper.      This suit was made use of for a comparative examina
tion with the acetate of copper.
    Thirteen ounces of this formiate of copper were distilled in a
retort with eight ounces 310 grains of sulphuric acid of the
specific gravity of 1-864.     By the action of the sulphuric acid,
there were obtained at a second rectification six ounces 410
grains of a distilled product, free from sulphuric acid, which
possessed the following properties:
    A sour and pungent odour, remaining always liquid even at a
very low artificial temperature.
    Its specific gravity at a temperature of 16° R. is 1116-8,
whereas that of the concentrated acetic acid is only 1070-9.
    200 grains of carbonate of soda deprived of water require for
their saturation 1352 grains of formic acid, diluted in three
parts water, and left by evaporation a residue of 228 grains in
weight ; whereas a similar quantity of carbonate of soda absorbed
 1072 grains of acetic acid, and left 290 grains of dry residue.
    The formic acid distilled with its weight of alcohol presents
the same phaenomena with those remarked in the preparation
of acetic ether, with the exception of a very decided smell of
peach kernels.
    Rectified formic ether has a strong but agreeable smell, like
that of peach kernels.     The taste is the same, with a flavour of
ants.    The spirit of ants sold in the shops has also this smell, but
M. Gehlen did not discover the slightest traces of prussic acid.
    M. Bucholz, the German chemist, has published in Troms-
dorif-s Journal an analysis of the substance called Benzoin.
                                                                   He.

                           Analysis   of Benzoin.                    153
He began by digesting it in common alcohol            cold.   Twenty-
five drachms, when several times treated by alcohol, left half a
drachm of woody and sandy particles.            The alcoholic liquors
were then mixed- in a glass retort with 48 ounces of water : the
alcoholic part was afterwards distilled off at a very gentle heat.
The aqueous residue in the retort was filtered through bibulous
paper, which retained a few flakes of a soft resin.         The filtered
liquid deposited on cooling two drachms and ten grains of ben
zoic acid in a pulverulent state.        To the bottom of the vessel
there adhered a thin coating of soft resin or balsam.         The eva
poration   of  the dec.mted     liquor being continued, benzoic acid
and resin were still separated : the mother water gave 16 grains
of a resinous matter without any trace of extractive matter.
The residue of the resin of benzoin which fringed the sides of
the retort was redissolved in alcohol, and, after adding water as
before, distilled : the filtered liquor again deposited benzoic acid.
The weight of the acid separated by the preceding experiments
was three drachms.        The alcoholic product of the distillation
reddened turnsole paper, a proof that some of the acid was vo
latilized in the alcohol.        In fact, four ounces of this alcohol
left to spontaneous evaporation in a cup gave one grain of ben
zoic acid.
    The viscous matter like balsam of Peru was treated by boiling
water, filtered, and evaporated. A peculiarly bitter aromatic taste
distinguished the residue, which was soluble in boiling water and
alcohol, but not in ether.         The viscous matter which resisted
the boiling water was very soluble in alcohol and ether.            This
last substance is sai generis.       The purified resin of benzoin is
of a brownish-red colour, pale like gumlac in tears, transparent,
brittle, and gives a reddish-white dust. It is entirely soluble in
alcohol and ether, but not in spirits of turpentine.
    M. Bucholz obtained the following products from the 25
drachms employed :
                                                    Drachms.   Grains.
       Resin of benzoin                                20       50
       Benzoic acid                                     3         7
       Substance similar to balsam of Peru              0       2.5
       Particular aromatic principle soluble      inl   «
          wattr and alcohol                         j             g
       Ligneous particles and impurities                0       30
                                                       25
    M. Bucholz then procured the benzoic acid in the following
way :     He poured four parts of alcohol upon one of pulverized
benzoin in a matrass.        After digesting a few days, the alcoholic
liquor was filtered.     It was then introduced into a large glass
                         "
   •
                                                                   retort

 154            Sulphurous  Waters   of Aix la  Chapelle.
retort with 1 2 parts of distilled water.   The milky mixture was
distilled until the whole of the alcohol had passed into the re
ceiver.    The boiling aqueous liquor, which swims above the re
sinous matter, was decanted from the cucurbite.         The filtered
liquor was put into earthen pots to effect the crystallization.
The resinous deposit may be again dissolved in three parts of
alcohol, and the liquor distilled as above, with a sufficient quan
tity of water.    The two aqueous liquors put together are to be
evaporated to an eighth part of their volume.     When ail the acid
has been separated by crystallization, it may be purified and
freed from the last particle of balsam in the following way.
 Dissolve it in 50 or 60 parts of boiling water in a tin or glazed
 earthenware vessel, and boil it a quarter of an hour with an
equal weight of fresh pulverized charcoal.      The filtered liquid
crystallizes the benzoic acid upon cooling, in very fine white
 needles.
    M. Monheim, a German chemist, having published an analysis
 of the sulphurous waters of Aix la Chapelle, in which he thought
 he discovered sulphuretted      azotic gas in great abundance ;
 M. Berzelius communicated his doubts on this subject to
 M. Monheim, who thereupon repeated his experiments. By
 adopting the improved process recommended by M. Berzelius,
 sulphur was constantly deposited; and M. Monheim admits
 " that in the mineral waters of Aix la Chapelle the sulphur is
 combined with hydrogen alone ; and that if the sulphuretted hy
 drogen gas is not decomposed by the nitrous acid, or by the sul
 phurous acid, the phaenomenon must be ascribed to the great
 quantity of azotic gas with which it is mixed." — It results from
  M. Monheim's last analysis, that the gas which is extricated from
 the sulphurous waters of Aix la Chapelle is composed of
            Azotic gas                         51 '25 cubic inches.
            Carbonic acid gas                  28-26
            Sulphuretted hydrogen   gas        20-49
                                              100-00
     M. Hildebrandt has recently made some curious experiments
  on the preservation of the flesh of animals in the gases.       In a
  receiver of the capacity ef three cubic inches, filled with very
  pure sulphurous acid gas, he introduced through mercury a piece
  of fresh beef : in a few minutes the meat had absorbed almost
  the whole gas, and the mercury filled the capacity of the re
  ceiver, except some air-bells, which were probably owing to the
  atmospheric air.     The meat soon lost its natural red colour, and
   assumed that of boiled meat ; it did not undergo any other ap
                                                                parent

                    Experiments on Beef. — Lectures.             155
parent alterations, and the air in the bell-glass preserved its
volume.     At the end of seventy-six days, during which time the
temperature had varied from 0 to 10° Reaumur, the meat had
scarcely acquired any smell of sulphurous acid : it was harder
and drier than roasted meat.       After leaving it four days in the
open air, it then became more compact without being putrefied,
and did not perfectly change colour : it merely lost the weak
«mell of acid without acquiring any other.
    A piece of ox beef was treated in the same way in the fluoric
acid gas, and the results were in every respect similar : the phae
nomena were only less visible, because the acid attacked the
glass, and a thin coating of mercury Was deposited on the meat.
     Beef deposited in a receiver filled with ammoniacal gas exhi
bited alterations completely different : the absorption of the elastic
fluid had taken place in it totally; the meat assumed a fine red
colour nearly as in the nitrous gas, and preserved this fresh ap
pearance; for seventy-six days: it was much softer than in the
 foregoing experiment, without smell, and having the colour and
consistence of fresh meat.     When exposed four days to the open
air it did not putrefy ; it lost its red colour, however, became
brown, dried up, and was covered with a kind of varnish.
                              LECTURES.
     Dr. Clarke's and Mr. Clarke's Winter Courses of Lectures on
  Midwifery, and the Diseases of Women and Children, will com
 mence on Tuesday, October the 4th.           The Lectures are read
 at the house of Mr. Clarke, No. 10, Saville Row, every Morning
 from a Quarter past Ten to a Quarter past Eleven, for the cou-
 venience of Students attending the Hospitals.         For particulars
 apply   to Dr. Clarke, New   Burlington   Street ; or to Mr. Clarke,
 at the Lecture Room,     No. 10, Saville Row, Burlington Gardens.
     Mr. Taunton will commence his Lectures on Anatomy, Phy
  siology, Pathology, and Surgery, on Saturday, October the 8th,
  at the Theatre of Anatomy, Bartlett's Court, Holborn.
     In this Course of Lectures it is proposed to take a comprehen
  sive view of the structure and oeconomy of the living body, and
  to consider the causes, symptoms, nature, and treatment of sur
  gical diseases, with the mode of performing the different surgical
  operations ; forming a complete course of anatomical and physio
  logical instruction for the medical or surgical student, the artist,
  the professional or private gentleman.
      An ample field for professional edification will be afforded by
  the opportunity which pupils may have of attending the clinical
  and other practice of both the City and Finsbury Dispensaries.

 156                          Lectures.
   The Autumnal Course will commence on Saturday, October
the 8thy 1814, at Eight o'clock in the Evening precisely, and
be continued every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday, at the
same hour.
   Particulars may be had on applying to Mr. Taunton, Greville
Street, Hatton Garden.
   Mr. Brookes will commence his Autumnal Course'of Lectures
on Anatomy,     Physiology, and Surgery, at the Theatre of Ana
tomy, Blenheim Street, Great Marlborough Street, on Saturday,
the 1st of October, at Two o'clock.
   In these Lectures the structure of the human body will be de
monstrated on recent subjects, and further illustrated by pre
parations, and the functions of the different organs will be ex
plained.
   The surgical operations are performed, and    every part  of sur
gery so elucidated as may best tend to complete the operating
surgeon.
   The art of injecting, and of making anatomical preparations,
will be taught practically.
    Gentlemen zealous in the pursuit of zoology will meet with
uncommon opportunities of prosecuting their researches in com
parative anatomy.
   Surgeons in the Army and Navy may be assisted in renewing
their anatomical knowledge, and every possible attention will be
paid to their accommodation as well as instruction.
   Anatomical converzationes will be held weekly, when the dif
ferent subjects treated of will be discussed familiarly, and the
students' views forwarded.       To these none but pupils can be
admitted.
   Spacious apartments, thoroughly ventilated, and replete with
every convenience, are open all the morning, for the purposes
of dissecting and injecting, where Mr. Brookes attends to direct
the students, and demonstrate the various parts as they appear
on dissection.
   An extensive Museum, containing preparations illustrative of
every part 'of the human body, and its diseases, appertains to
this Theatre, to which students will have occasional admittance.
Gentlemen inclined to support this School by contributing pre
ternatural or morbid parts, subjects in Natural History, &c. (in
dividually of little value to the possessors) may have the pleasure
of seeing them preserved, arranged, and registered, with the
names of the donors.
                                Terms.                     .  £.    s.
                                                                 "
   For a Course of Lectures, including the Dissections        5     5
   For a Perpetual Pupil to the Lectures and Dissections     10    10
                                                                 The

                         Lectures. — Patents.                     157
    The inconveniences    usually attending anatomical investiga
tions   are counteracted by an antiseptic process, the result of
experiments made by Mr. Brookes on human subjects, at Paris,
in the year 1782, the account of which was delivered to the
 Royal Society, and read on the 17th of June 1784. This me
thod has since been so far improved, that the florid colour of
the muscles is preserved, and even heightened.        Pupils may be
accommodated     in the House.   Gentlemen   established in practice,
desirous of renewing their anatomical knowledge, may be ac
commodated with an Apartment to dissect in privately.
    St. Thomas's and Guy's Hospitals. — The Winter Course of
 Lectures at these adjoining Hospitals will commence in the first
 week in October : viz.
    At St. Thomas's. — Anatomy and the Operations of Surgery,
by Mr. Astley Cooper and Mr. Henry Cline.
    Principles and Practice of Surgery by Mr. Astley Cooper.
    At Guy's. — Practice of Medicine, by Dr. Babington and
Dr. Curry. — Chemistry, by Dr. Babington, Dr. Marcet, and
 Mr. Allen. — Experimental Philosophy, by Mr. Allen. — Theory of
 Medicine, and Materia Medica, by Dr. Curry and Dr.Cholmeley.
 — Midwifery, and Diseases of Women and Children, by Dr.
 Haighton. — Physiology, or Laws of the Animal OZconomy, by
 Dr. Haighton. — Structure and Diseases of the Teeth, by
 Mr. Fox.
    N. B. These several Lectures are so arranged, that no two of
 them interfere in the hours of attendance; and the whole is cal
 culated to form a complete Course of Medical and Chirurgical
 Instruction. Terms and other Particulars may be learnt at the
 Tespective Hospitals.
    Dr. Clutterbuck will begin his Autumn Course of Lectures
 on the Theory and Practice of Physic, Materia Medica, and
 Chemistry, on Wednesday, October 5, 1814, at Ten o'clock in
 the Morning, at his House, No. 1, in the Crescent, New Bridge.
 Street, Blackfriars.
              LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
    To Thomas Tindall, of      Green Street, in the parish of Scar
 borough, in the county of York, gentleman, for his improve
 ments on the steam-engine with appendages thereof. — 18th
 June 1814. — 2 months.
    To John Maberly, of Welbeck Street, Cavendish Square,
 coach-maker,     and John Barrow, of York Court, East Street,
  Mary-le-bone, smith, for their method of securing carriage
 glasses. — 25th June. — 6 months.
                                                                   To

 158       Meteorological Observations made at Clapton.
   To William Francis Hamilton, of Asylum Buildings, West
minster    Road, in the county of Surry, engineer, for his im
provements in the making and preparation of soda water, and
other liquids impregnated with carbonic acid gas. — 28th June.
— 6 months.
Meteorological Observations made at Clapton in Hackney from
                 the 2\st  to the 3lst of July 1814.
   July 21. — Warm      day. Cloudy morning, there being large
but lofty cumuli in quantities.     Fair evening.
   July   22. — Hot   hazy   day, with  cumuli, &c. The Thermo
meter came up to 80°.        Fine evening, with red haze ; a falling
star left a narrow brass coloured train behind for half a second.
   July 23. — Hot day, but clear and dry, with easterly wind ; a
few very small cumuli at midday.
   July 24. — Hot and dry SE. wind, and clear sky. In the
evenining cirrus scattered aloft.     A few falling stars.
   July   25. — Clear  hot   day again; wind SW.        Therm. SO1.
Barom. 29-98.       Cumuli. Cirrus in the evening.
   July 26. — Fair hot day; a little cumulus and cirrus in the
evening.
   July   27. — Fair hot day; cumulus and cirrus.
   July   28. — A shower early, the day very hot. Therm. 8S° in
the shade ; at night, rain and lightning, and Thermometer 753
at 11 P.M. — This night was everywhere noticed to be peculiarly
hot and close.
   July 29. — Before sunrise the great black mountainous cumu-
lostratus below rows of cirrostratus, &c. had a beautiful effect
after the rain.    The Thermometer, which continued above 70°
all last night, was 65° at sunrise.    Afterwards it became cooler,
with much cloud and wind.           Mr. Sadler's balloon went from
London to Chelmsford in less than an hour.
   July 30. — Fair day, with cumuli and cirri. Gale from SW.
 and fine moon-light evening.
   July 31. — Clear and thin clouds in the morning. Through
the day there was a haziness, but it was fair with cirri and cu
muli. At night cirrostratus and cirrocumulus by moonlight had
a fine mottled appearance.         The cirrocumulus appeared the
most elevated, and had that clear and definite appearance which
 I noticed so often to accompany fme warm weather in summer,
and which is quite different from the loose and scattered features
between many common showers, as well as from those dense,
 compact and closely collected aggregates which precede thun
 der storms.
                                                           Meteort-

                              Meteorology.                           159
Meteorological Observations made during a Journey in Wales,
             from the '3d to the 25th of August 1814.
   Aug. 3. — (At Bath.) — Fair, and showers at intervals; fine
evening.
   Aug. 4. — Fair with cumuli, and other clouds; fine evening. SW.
    Aug. 5. — Rainy morning ; clear, and flying clouds afterwards.
Showers again at night. SW.
   Aug. 6. — Showers from SW. Fine evening with flimsy cirro-
cumulative cirrostratus.
    Aug. 7. — (At Clifton.) — Cloudy, and a little rain early, then
fair ; hard shower in the evening. SW.
    Aug. 8. — (At Ross.) — Showers and fair intervals. SW.
    Aug. 9. — (At Buwlch.) — Showers as before from SW. I no
ticed this evening the loose cumulous clouds which supply the
showers from beneath, sailing against and involving the tops of
the hills as they passed along : they seemed white, and not like
the scud which follows showers.
    Aug. 10.--- (At Aberystwith.)— Clouds and showers all day.
    Aug. 1 1 . — Rainy and fair by turms.
    Aug. 12. — (At Dolgelly.) — Showery day. W.
    Aug. 13. — Showery as usual. The clouds constantly on the
mountain     tops.
    Aug. 14.— Showery morning; fair afternoon*.
    Aug. 15. — Showery.        W and NW.
   Aug. 16. — Long continued showers. W and NW.
    Aug. 17. — Showery.        Westerly wind.
                  (At Birmingham.) — Showery.
    Aug.   18. —                                        W.
    Aug. 19    —  (In London.)   —  Fair;  cumuli      and cirrostratus;
 nimbiform    sheets of cloud, &c.
    Aug.  20. — (At Tunbridge Wells.) — Fair ; cirrus and cumulus.
    Aug.  21. — Fair, and occasional showers.
    Aug.  22. — Fair; cirrus and cumulus.          Showers at night.
    Aug.  23. — Fine day; cumulus, cirrus, cirrocumulus.            Rain
 at night.
    Aug. 24. — Wind got to N. Rainy day.
    Aug. 25. — Wind southerly again; gentle showers; clear in
tervals.    I saw cirrus sailing below elevated irregular cumuli.
Fine moon-light evening.
   Tunbridge Wells,
     Aug. 25, 1814.                                Thomas Forster.
     I
   * ascended Cader Idris this afternoon. When at the top, several scud
like cumuli, and such as feed the showers, passed below me through the
valleys.  The cumuli io general, at least their bases, appeared very little
above me ; but cirmstruttis and cirrus as high when seen from the top of
the mountain as when viewed from below. The flimsy irregular cirrocu-
mulative cirrostratus in patches seemed highest of all.
                                                               METEORO-

160                                          Meteorology*
                         meteorological table,
                      By Mr. Cary, of the Strand,
                                        For August 1814.
                                                                    1 w
                    Thermometer.
 Days of                  in             o   ~'
                                                  Height of
                                                  the Barom.
                                                                              I                   Weather.
                                                                   Degreesc
 Month.
                 o'Cloc          Noon
                                                                              nessby   Hygrom
                                                   Inches.
                          Morn
                                        -o   V.
                 8
July     27       67             80      69        30-04                      78                Fair
         28       70             85      79       29'94                   9«                    Fair
         29       68             74      60         -95                   62                    Fair
         30       66             78      64       30-08                   67                    Fair
         31       66             79      64        2999                       72                Fair
August   l        67             78      62          -95                      64                Fair
           2      66             75      63        30 04                      66                Fair
                  65             72      59        29-95                      60                Fair
           4 3    60             73      60          -88                      61                Fair
           5      62             74      59          -78                      54                Showery
           6      60             72      56          -82                      70                Showery
           7       64            72'     56        30 00                      66                Fair
                  63             69      56        29-70                      57                Showery
           9 8    57             66      56        30-05                  49                    Fair
         10        58            67      54          -05                      36                Showery
           11      56            69     •60          -13                  49                    Fair
         IS        58            70      60          -12                      56                Fair
         13       6o             69      60        29-90                      60                Fair
         14       60             67      54          -89                      66                Fair
         15       56             66      34          -85                      64                Fair
         16 57                   63      54          *82                      0                 Rain
         17 58                   60      56        30-02                      54                Showery
         18 57                   72      54           •07                     60                Fair
         19 56                   66      52        29-98                      54                Cloudy
         SO 52                   65      56        30-02                      60                Fair
         SI 56                   67      54        29-92                      52                Cloudy
         22 56                   69      57          -82                      41                Showery
         23        67            74      56          -72                      60                Cloudy
         24        58            60      55          -52                      0                 Rain
         23        59            67      58          -64                      54                Showery
         26        60            71      54          -81                      63                Fair
                 N. B. The Barometer's height                is   taken at one o'clock-

                                           [        161        ]
      XXVII.        Explanation                of   the Cuticle         of Leaves.    By
                                Mrs.           A. Ibbetson.
                                      To      Mr. Tillock.
Sir, —   I   haa'E        often promised to give a thorough explanation
of the cu-icle of leaves, one of the most important subjects of
phytology. as being the means nature employs not only to help
to nourish the plant, but to bestow on it all those juices and
gases the various compounds it has to form, must require: the
quantities of dissections necessary to enable me to understand
such a subject thoroughly, have hitherto prevented my arranging
them properly ; but having now dedicated many months to the
labour, abstruse as it              is,
                                 flatter myself
                                      I             am prepared to give
                                                                    I
it, with all its variations, in the two following letters.
    It now apparent that much of the nourishment of plants
      is
is  administered by their leave?, and proceeds from the atmo
sphere that
       :          it not water alone that
                     is                         thus bestowed, but every
                                                               is
different mixture that produces that inexhaustible variety of
scents and juices with which the leaves and flowers are endowed
for the general benefit of man and animals.               becomes there     It
fore of the greatest consequence to understand the manner of
receiving the dews, and to point out the mechanism of each dif
ferent cuticle, how         it formed and acts in this respect to be
                                     is
capable    of retaining   each  separate juice, nor mix them together
till nature
                  I by
                   their conjunction         ready to produce the new
                                                          is
compound.          have in     former letter shown that no moisture
                                     a
enters the leaves but through the hairs, or some projection pro
truded in the cuticle       but the art with which the upper skin
                                ;                                                           is
formed in points and bars to draw in the moisture, and the various
contrivances to secure the gases, are so wonderful, that               will            it
scarcely be credited                by
                              those not used to contemplate and ad
mire the astonishing works of the Almighty.               In tracing the
many species of leaves,            find their cuticles vary according to
                                          I
the quantity of nourishment they receive and dispense to the
plant; and    it     also remarkable, that the pabulum of the leaves
                    is
lessens in substance in exact proportion to the quantity of liquid
absorbed from the atmosphere              the more hard and solid the
                                                     :
pabulum, the less         the quantum of nourishment received from
                           is
the dews.
    In describing the formation of leaves, think proved that they  I        I
proceeded entirely from the exterior of the plant, and had little
or no connexion with the interior parts.             This     so apparent,       is
that plant entirely dead within, has been known to throw out
     a
its leaves the ensuing spring.          Having long before formed the
 leaf-bud,   ithas still the power to act      the line of life not reach-
                                                               :
    Vol. 44. No. 197. Sept. 1814.                                      ing
                                                                        L

162                      Explanation    of   the   Cuticle       tf Leaves.
ing   to     the stroke of death has not yet altuived it.
              it,                                                       have       I
 shown the amazing variety of juices received                the hairs andby
cuticles from the atmosphere.           Now those who have ever de
composed the bark liquid know that                   formed of many dif
                                                        it      is
ferent sorts of matter.                 It
                                         very probable, then,
                                              is                     among
the variety of liquids absorbed                    by
                                           the hairs and cuticles, that
gluten, gelatine, tannin, &c. all enter the plant in separate juices,
and are received              by
                          those parts, nor unite^to form the compound
till they meet and compose the pabulum of the leaf, and after
wards its superabundance settles in the bark, and fills the inner
bark vessels.      All plants that die partly down in the winter lose
their bark juices, nor regain them till after the leaves are
formed    : the vine, for example, the lavender, and innumerable
other plants.       But     the bark juices are thus formed, they be
                               if
gin to collect       the leaf-bud the preceding autumn when within
                         in                                                   ;
the gemma they retain          quantity of these juices ready prepared,
                                    a
and in an almost coagulated state for the shooting of the leaf-
vessels.      cannot but be persuaded that this
              I                                             the real origin
                                                                         is
of the blood of the plant, for in the root we most easily trace
the sap proceeding from the earth.          But no power that         could        1
exert, no dissection that could contrive, has been able to show
                                    I
me any other origin of the bark juices            they flow not from the
                                                            :
earth,   nor are  they  formed  in the root    but   from the leaves
                                                        ;              have         I
ever discovered much probability of their proceeding.             All plants
with respect to the different formation of their cuticles may be
divided into eight sorts.        Trees and shrubs receive but little
nourishment from the atmosphere, their roots alone affording
them plenty.        Evergreens absorb none at all. Herbaceous and
annuals gain a vast deal of support from the rains and dews.
Bog plants hardly any in this way, and are thereiore more hurt
by a  change of situation than any other except downright water
plants    ;because they can in their leaves receive no indemnifica
tion  for  the  loss of food to their roots            Sand plants receive
much of their support from the atmosphere                while rock plants
                                                                     ;
are wholly fed by its means, and draw no assistance from any
other source       the leaves of firs are incapable of receiving mois
                     :
ture  ;  the cuticles being too much like evergreens, and too well
guarded to admit              and as to water plants,         have already
                               it
                               ;                                              1
shown their general formation        in  my  last  letter.   There     how         is
ever much that concerns their outward skin, which will admit
of some detail, and which shall give in my next.
                                        I                      No property
of nature       more wonderful than that which vegetables possess,
                    is
of adapting the cuticles of their leaves to the different situa
tions in which they find themselves placed.            This    so peculiarly  is
the case, that could scarcely credit the evidence of my eyes, which
                     I
                                                                                   certified,

                     Explanation      of the   Cuticle    of Leaves.            163
certified the changes thus operated and caused in this part by
 every alteration of soil and situation.         It must here be observed,
 that   the extreme    variation  that has taken   place in different plants,
 from the desire now so universal          of obtaining in every situation
 and climate all the different species of flowers that can by la
 bour and art be made to grow, and thus produce in one garden,
 plants of all soils, of every climate, and every degree of mois
ture, rock, sand, bog, water, herbaceous plants and trees : this
 has so mixed the cuticles, that their habits are no longer to be
 known by their outward appearance or form ; indeed they by
 degrees obtain new one}.           I know few plants (except real water
 plants and bog plants) that obstinately retain their customs,
 and die if placed in an improper soil.            The only means I have
 been able to devise, to comprehend this subject, and study it
 completely, was to collect a few of each different sort that still
 retained their original properties unchanged by custom, and
 make myself thoroughly acquainted with their exact and natural
formation ; and when that was accomplished, to dissect those
 which habit has altered.          This I have done. A dozen plants of
  each were sufficient to complete the task I had in view; and I
 flatter myself I shall now be capable of discriminating clearly
  the variations that take place, and give an exact account of
  them.
      The leaves of trees and shrubs which are little indebted to the
  atmosphere for support, consist of three upper cuticles and two
  under ones ; I shall begin with the lowest part of the leaf : the
  under cuticle is a skin perfectly impervious to water, while the
  next is a net which has on it bladders alternately placed in dia
  monds or otherwise ; these rise high, and therefore keep the cu
  ticle hollow from the pabulum of the leaf : these bladders are
 very succulent, and cannot therefore bear the heat without being
  destroyed and absorbed ; nor can the cuticle, hollow and dry as
  itis,  support the exposure to the sun without being liable to
  peal off, tear and break hence the reason why, when once the
                                  :
  leafis   dried,     never again turns its back to the sun. Almost
                     it
  every   leaf  isformed    in the same manner in its under cuticle next    :
  to this skin comes the pabulum, which              thick or thin according
                                                         is
   as the leaf      so
                    is    for;   it  the increase of this part alone which
                                      is
  thickens      leaf.
                a        On each side of the pabulum the veins are to
  be discovered        these contain the spiral wire
                         :                                  then follow the
                                                               :
  three upper cuticles, the impervious one being in the middle                    :
   (see Plate III. fig. 1.) Elm leaf dissected         when there are hairs,
                                                          :
  they not 6nly pass through the first        skin,   but pierce to the pa
  bulum, while the various divisions connect themselves with the
   different vessels of the cuticle, see fig. IX.         This         is
                                                                   admirably
   seen    by taking pains to adjust properly the compound micro-
                                           L   2                        scope,

164              'Explanation of the Cuticle of Leaves.
scope, which if well managed throws the cuticles to their focal
distance, showing the cylinders of the hairs between, and thus
dividing the cuticles when they are too close for either lancet
or finger to do it.     It may be observed of all leaves, that the
young ones have much more hairs than the old, and I may say
that it is difficult to find a plant even of trees when the buds are
in their aggregate state, whose leaves are not loaded with hairs,
and often covered with a sort of net of that kind, which entirely
disappears in the more advanced age of the plant: nor does less
alteration take place in the edge of young leaves, which ge
nerally change in a very extraordinary manner.          This is not to
be seen by the naked eye, but is very conspicuous to the dissec-r
tor, who, in all these changes, finds one general system running
throughout nature, and tending to procure to the young Sieve
plenty of nourishment, (see fig. III. The sides of young leaves,
when compared with old ones of the same plant.)              There is
also another peculiarity in which the leaves of trees differ much
from those of herbaceous plants ; the pabulum is not only more
solid, but. their cuticles lie much closer to each other, and the
older the leaves grow, the more perceptible is this circumstance.
   In herbaceous and annual plants, and indeed all those which
rise each year from the earth, the pabulum is less solid than in
the leaf of trees, and more watery; they have infinitely more
hairs, and therefore receive much more moisture from the at
mosphere; but they have in general but one set of veins, which
lie next the under cuticle, and cause it to be much more raised
and pulpy in its upper surface than the leaf of trees : it is this
that gives the leaves of the melissa and mentha that peculiar look.
It is this also which gives the cabbage the same ; and it is
merely the drawing in of the spiral wire which produces in the
Irassica' that curious effect on a cold morning. I have taken it
within doors very often, and seen it almost smooth ; when return
ing it to the frost, it has directly shrunk up into absolute little
nests, by means of the contraction of the spiral wire in the se
veral divisions which are drawn in like a high quilting.
    I have in vain tried to discover the reason for these leaves
having but single ^eins, as I doubt not some curious cause is
attached to it ; but it requires much time to develop all these
peculiarities and minute differences, and watching alone can dis
cover them.
   I gave in my last letter a specimen of the sort of cuticle of
hairs that often covers annuals and herbaceous plants, that will
continually spread over both the upper and under surfaces of the
leaves, and that had a bottle attached to it with a curling vessel
twisting like the spiral wire. Many different sorts might be
given as curious as that : it is inconceivable how much moisture

                Explanation   of the Cuticle  of Leaves.            165
they contain, and how many various juices are thus produced to
 the plants ; for it is by no means to be conceived that one sort
of hair always brings the same juice. I have proved how very
 differently this is managed in seeds, by seeing and detecting the
same hairs bringing not onlv various coloured juices, but changes
of gases, known to be so bv the alteration of tints of the air-
 bubbles : at one time the vessels would be full, then changing ;
every day produce a new ingredient.        I doubt not it is the same
in all other plants which receive moisture and support from the
leaves.
    Evergreens receive no moisture whatever from the atmosphere.
Besides the impervious skin which forms their outward cuticles
both above and below, they are so guarded over the pabulum
by a thin layer of bark juices, and bladders of inflammable air,
that no moisture can approach them in that direction.             They
have five upper cuticles and three under ones, all so closely
pressed together, as apparently to form but one : those that
have scented leaves have in the second cuticle bladders of an
oily compound : this evidently enters from the atmosphere, and
it is thus all leaves are scented, the perfume being kept perfectly
separate from the rest of the juices of the plant. The scent would
be strong indeed if it could be taken thus : but this is impossible,
and by distillation we again separate it from the general liquid,
with which it gets mixed in drawing it from the plant.             It is
however greatly to be regretted that we cannot contrive at once
to draw the several liquids from a plant without this assemblage,
as it would give a much clearer view of the subject.         It will be
asked, As these leaves have no hairs, and no collecting cuticle,
how they can receive the oil and all the various juices they must
require to form the compounds and gases necessary to their health
and vigour?       I know but of three means : the ednes of the
leaves ; the large open points common to all evergreens ; and
the top of the gatherer ; for in these leaves it is only the under
part that draws up ; the other is studded with pores formed in
a curious manner within; and as this formation is onlv to be
discovered in these leaves, I take it to be some indemnification
for the very few hairs they possess.    It must however be noticed,
that, like almost all other plants, when first shooting they have
many hairs. The extreme shining of the upper cuticle is caused
by the glutinous matter which fills up like oil the network of
the exterior one, and renders it perfectly lucid ; and it is this
hard and stiff skin, and the bladders of inflammable air, which
cause it to explode when placed in the fire ; and it is this glu
tinous cuticle which protects it from the cold of the winter; and
in proportion as these glazed skins are many in number, so much
more will they endure the frosts of the winter.          This is tire
                                  L3                            reason

 166           Explanation    of the Cuticle of Leaves.
 reason why the birch will grow so much further north than any
 other tree : its rind is composed of an innumerable quantity of
 those skins : if it was studded with pores, as all leaves and cuti
 cles were formerly supposed to be, nay, if there were only a few,
 it would destroy the whole mechanic formation of the leaf;
 therefore, as soon as the exterior of an evergreen leaf • gets
 pierced by an insect, it decays directly. •
    All those grassy leaves of early spring have a peculiar forma
 tion : they receive no moisture, or very little, from the atmo
sphere. The crocus, snow-drop, hyacinth leaf, &c. are all filled
with a glutinous liquor in their pabulum, which in a great
measure protects them from the early frosts of spring; they have
 three cuticles above and three below — the upper skin being
 ribbed like a grass leaf, and carrying in stripes the spiral wire ;
 and it is the pabulum, which is in pockets, and stands at a great
distance, while the cuticies are merely longitudinal vessels, which
 differ from the gramma only by having a pabulum : they have
three cuticles on each side, which are scolloped ; and of course
they have no veins, as their place is supplied by the exterior
cuticle. Most of the bulbous roots have the thickened juices,
which are formed to encounter the difficulties of the early spring,
and thus carry in their bulbs a great quantity of nourishment
ready prepared.       There is a peculiarity in these plants which
deserves much study : most of them will shoot without the assist
ance of any earth ; and yet it is evidently not from the quan
tity of nourishment they receive from the atmosphere, (for that
is hardly any thing,) but from that which is laid up and accu
mulated in the bulb; and from some moisture they have the art
and mechanism to draw in at the end of the roots, which will
always be found wet when growing on a dry floor, or on stones :
but this must be a trifling quantity.     These bulbous roots, then,
form a third means of support to plants, and not the least cu
rious of the three.
    I hope I shall be able to give a more complete picture of the
effects of these plants growing without earth, from some trials
I am now engaged in. The astonishing difference that may be
made in the appearance of bulbous flowers by lessening or in
creasing the nutriment offered, is well known to most gardeners :
it requires, however, the nicest management : on the essential
characters it has no -power; for although, by the multiplication
of the petals or other parts, the more consequential organs are
destroyed ; yet these changes affect the genera more than the
specific distinctions ; and notwithstandmg the number of these
artificial varieties, such is the tendency of nature to maintain a
uniformity in the individuals of the same species, that a neglect
 of the gardener for a few years will soon bring all these gaudy
                                                              double

               Explanation    of the Cuticle of Leaves.             167
double     and unnatural flowers back to their ancient beautiful
  simplicity. But this is not my business: to understand how far
  a bulb will maintain itself without any extraneous aid ; whether
  in this situation it is capable of giving life to others, as well as
  to support itself, and how far this may be carried in bulbs ; and
  to 'examine whether the seed can draw its source from itself,
  or whether (like all other plants) it is created in the roots by
  the joint juices of the sap of the earth and mother plant, is
  what I am most anxious to discover ; also how long the nutri
  ment laid upon a bulb will last, and what it loses in weight.       I
  must here observe, that when it is not a bulb, the cuticles of the
  grassy leaves differ extremely.
     Of all the cuticles of plants I have been studying, none have
 puzzled me like the bog plants.           They certainly differ much
 both from rock and sand plants ; for they appear to receive al
 most all their nourishment from the root, and to depend on them
 so much as to die if removed from that soil ; and yet they are
 almost always to be discovered collecting moisture from the at
 mosphere, especially the scirpi, and most particularly the
junci. All these certainly draw-in moisture from the sides of
 their leaves ; as do all the azalias, which have the most curious
 mechanism for that purpose.         Now to require in so extreme a
 degree both the nourishment of root and leaves, is an uncom
 mon circumstance ; but I rather fancy it is not the moisture of
 the bogs that is required, but the peculiar earth with which it
 is formed.      It appears indeed far more easy for nature to sup
 ply her wants of moisture or dryness by the change of cuticle,
 than to do without the sort of earth she is accustomed to ; and
 there appear for all bog plants some ingredients in the earth
 necessary to their well doing, and ih which alone they can thrive.
 To discover this is a matter I have much at heart, not merely to
 make one set of plants do well, (though that would be a suffi
 cient incentive,) but as producing another fact of essential con
 sequence in our knowledge of the formation of plants. What this
 portion of earth  is,   or what part of the bog matter   it may be,I
 am endeavouring to discover, having analysed the earth, and ex
 tracted by   turns each separate ingredient. But as    it   is
                                                              necessary
 that the plant should grow in     it, it requires many years to as
 certain the fact, and complete the trial.          Bog plants of the
 azalia kind have three cuticles above, and two below, with          a
 thick pabulum not at all watery; and this convinced me, they
 could not draw much water from the atmosphere for this appears
                                                    :
 an invariable rule, that the more moisture the leaves take in,
 the more loose and juicy     is   the pabulum.      Most of the bog
 plants have  a    very raised and glittering upper  cuticle of the net
                                   L4                             kind,

.   168          Explanation   of the Cuticle of Leaves.
    kind, which I doubt not has often deceived botanists, and been
    taken for perspiration ; whereas it is so perfectly without mois
    ture, that the longer the leaves are kept within, and the. more
    they are dried up, the more shining and brilliant it is.        The
    vellow azalia  will live and do well out of  bog earth ; but  I  be
    lieve the others almost always linger and   die away.   The  cuticle
    of the leaves of the yellow azalia differs much, especially one
    always growing in common earth : but as I keep the variation to
    be discovered by a change of situation and soil, for my second
    letter, I shall not anticipate it here, except by saying that it has
    more hairs, and not so thick a pabulum, nor are the leaves so
    generally rigid, i
        I shall now turn to the rock plant, one of the most cuiious of
    all, as drawing hardly any nourishment from the earth. It is the
    only plant formed without the impervious skin, and has there
    fore millions of mouths open in every leaf ready to suck in the
    moisture of the atmosphere.       The upper cuticle is entirely com.'
    posed of diminutive round swellings; and these are full of points,
    which absorb the moisture by means of the vacuum managed
    within ; and the cuticle, being at some distance from the pabu
    lum, is nothing but plain water, confined in skins with each a
    pore that opens and closes, contracted by the spiral wire. Real
    rock plants have no hairs. Used to live in alpine situations, on
    the Table mountain of the Cape, or on some high rocks, where
    the atmosphere is constantly bestowing vapour which feed and
    bathe them, they scarcely want the little appendage that often
     belongs to the minor ones, which creep over the rocks, and seek
     the little cavities of the stones. This is a small kind of pump,
     something like that which belongs, to parasite plants: it seems
     merely intended to keep the root-stems moist, for the running-
     up of the seeds.     All the leaves are very thick and succulent ;
     two cuticles above and the same below, but most of the leaves
     flat on one side ; they have (like all other plants) hairs when
     young.     The ice plant is not a proper epitome of a rock plant,
     because    it has its pabulum at the exterior of the outward cu
     ticle, instead of the middle of it.   But most of the sedums are
     so, and many of the saxifragas and sempervivums ; the draha
      acyoides, ennus alpinus, and innumerable others: most of these
      would soon die, if deprived of the moisture of the atmosphere.
      Though these plants have few if any hairs, yet they have points
     of various kinds which produce the same effects; that       it is,
                                                                      be
      stowing on the plant those peculiar juices without which       cau-
      not be supported.     To receive these oils and liquids  is  a very
      different matter from gaining sustenance from the leaves      : nor
     can the dissector mistake them, as the colour alone, as well as
                                                                      the

                Explanation      of the Cuticle of Leaves .          169
the forms of the hair's which contain the juices, will explain what
they are.      I doubt not that most of the plants are much altered
from their first appearance when growing in their original
mountains. Though I have taken all the plants I have dissected
from as appropriate situations as it was possible to procure them,
yet rock plants in particular must be very inferior in their cuti
cles to what they would be could I have drawn them from their
native and original places ; most of the cactus and melon
thistles are of this kind ; they grow on the steep sides of rocks
in the hottest parts of America, where they seem to be thrust
out of the aperture, having scarcely a morsel of earth (and often
none at all) to assist them, though they are such large plants;
their roots shooting down into the fissures, and thus running to
 a considerable depth, so that it is extremely difficult to procure
 the plants.      The roots appear to seek water only, for which their
 little pumps    serve  them not alone for the purpose of clinging to
 the rocks, but to moisten and invigorate the lower part of the
plants.
      It will be seen that though many of the vegetable tribe re
 ceive no nourishment from the atmosphere, yet they all have
 the means of procuring the bark juices in their various different
 ingredients.     I before showed how many sorts of hairs each plant
  possessed — long indeed before I had an idea that those separate
  liquids, when collected and coagulated, formed the pabulum of
  the leaf, and the bark juices.        I may truly say that in this case
   (as frequently before)      nature   has developed herself.     I have
  only had to show what appears in the microscope ; all the rest
  arranges itself almost without my assistance, as too evident to.
  be misunderstood.       I shall now close the present letter with the
  account of the dissections that are intended to explain it ; and
   in my next I shall conclude the subject with the sand, fir, and
   cryptogamia plants ; and with the variations each change of
   soil, of moisture, or dryness, beyond their usual allotment, pro
   duces in the cuticle.
      To give only a faint idea of how necessary all these matters
   are to elucidate the knowledge of deeper philosophers,          I shall
   only mention, that all those curious trials established (1 think)
   by Sennebier, for want of it are useless ; since the various ex
   periments he made to make plants grow in different matters
    and soils were tried with plants that do not draw their nourish
   ment from the roots, but from the atmosphere : therefore most of
   those that really succeeded may be supposed to have done so
   because they touched not, nor interfered with, the soil bestowed
    on them.     It is so necessary in all these trials to understand
    why   we  fail,  and why we prosper.        It is certain his attempt
    could draw no result to be depended upon, and to be of real
                                                                       use

170                         Explanation     of the Cuticle of Leaves.
use to science : no plants in this case should be     tried, but tree*,
shrubs, and evergreens, receiving little in the first and no nourish
ment from the atmosphere in the last case.        I cannot but flatter
myself  that this will open a larger field for understanding plants;
and so much is it my desire to know the different vegetables that
prefer each peculiar soil, and the reason why they do so, that
I cannot but hope the want of ability may be compensated by
excessive diligence and attention.
                       I am, sir,
                                  Your obliged servant,
  Bellevue, August 6, 1814.                     Agnes IfiBETSON.
                                             Plate III.
                              Dissections    of the Leaves of Trees.
                                     Elm Leaf dissected.
     Fig.       cuticle; fig. 2, third cuticle (the second being
            1, first
impervious)   fig. 3, veins of the leaf containing the spiral wire ;
                        ;
fig. 4, the pabulum of the leaf; fig. 5, the under cuticle with
the bubbles ; fig. 6, leaf shown in thickness.
                   The        Leaf of a     herbaceous     Plant dissected.
                        ; fig. 8, third cuticle
     Fig. 7, first cuticle                          (the second being
impervious)    fig. 9, pabulum
                        ;        ;  fig. 10, the  veins of the leaf con
taining the spiral  wire;  fig. 11,  thickness   of the  leaf.
            Dissections           of the grassy     Leaves      of early Spring.
  Fig. 12, first cuticle; fig. 13, third cuticle (the second being
impervious) ; fig. 14, pabulum; fig. 15, thickness of the leaf.
                    Direction of the Leaves of Evergreens.
     Fig.   16, shown            in the breadth of the leaf.
                Dissections         of the    Leaves     of the   Rock Plants.
   Fig. 17, the upper cuticle y no impervious one, being the
only set of plants that are without it.
   Fig. 1 9, the swellings in the upper cuticle ; fig. 1 8, the holes
or apertures which open into the swellings : they have certainly
a valve at   a a, and are most curiously formed : this made me
suppose   that  there must be an impervious skin ; but, if there                             is,
it    so thin that
     is               could not discover it.
                              I
   Fig.  IX. one  of the hairs, to show how they manage the boxes
or reservoirs under them, and between the different skins or
cuticles       may be thought puerile to mention such spaces, but
                by it
            :
they are      no means useless to nature     since probably ;    in                it   is
                                                              these

  Report from the Select Committee     on Weights and Measures.   171
  these the juices are all collected to form the pabulum.         The
  smallest reins of a leaf are larger than   the veins and arteries of
  a mite, and what use does not nature make of all those !
      Fig.  24 and 25   will give an idea of the means used to in
  crease the given    moisture to young leaves : 24, is the edge of
  an old and young leaf : it is not only increased to the young
  one in an amazing quantity of hairs, but an additional piece (bh)
  is formed, and added to the leaf (quite as large as the leaf is
  broad) to give an increase of moisture.      No words I can make
  use of will paint the extreme difference between the old and
  young leaves of most plants ; they must be examined to prove
                                    •
  this truth. In the birch, for example, they are not in the least
  alike either in shape, size, texture, or edge.
      25 is the increase of the edge of one of the idenea in a young
  leaf, which in the old one ends by being a plain scollop with
  points, and no hairs.
      Fig. 20, 21, 22, 23,tand 16 are the dissection of the evergreen
-  leaf.
   XXVIII.     Report from the Select Committee on Weights and
      Measures.     Ordered by the House of Commons to be printed,
      July   \, 1814.
     X our committee, in the first place, proceeded to inquire what
   measures had been taken to establish uniform weights and mea
   sures throughout the kingdom.        They found that this subject
   had engaged the attention of parliament at a very early period.
   The statute book from the time of Henry the Third abounds
   with acts of parliament enacting and declaring that there should
   be one uniform weight and measure throughout the realm ; and
   every act complains that the preceding statutes had been inef
   fectual, and that the laws were disobeyed.
       The select committee of the house of commons, which was
   appointed in the year 1758 to inquire into the original standards
   of weights and measures in this kingdom, and to consider the
   laws relating thereto, made a very elaborate Report on this sub
  ject, in which is contained all the information that is necessary
   with regard to the inquiry into what were the original standards
    of weights and measures : such parts of that Report as have ap
    peared to your committee to be most important, are inserted in
    the Appendix to this Report.
       The committee of 1758 first give an abridged state of the
    several statutes which have been enacted relating to weights and
    measures : 1st, so far as they establish any weights or measures,
    or standards for the same j and 2d, so far as any means, checks,
                                                                    or

172              Report   from the Select Committee
or sanctions are provided to compel the use of the established
weights and measures, or to punish disobedience.                 The com
mittee then point out what appeared to them to be the princi
pal causes which had prevented the attainment of that uni
formity, so much and so wisely desired by parliament.                These
are stated    to be the want      of  skill in the   artificers who from
time to time made copies of the standards kept in the Exchequer ;
and as these imperfect measures were again copied from, every
error was multiplied, till the variety of standards rendered it
difficult to know what was the real standard, or to apply any
adequate ramedy.
    In the second place, the multiplicity of statutes made on this
subject, many of which are at variance with one another, and
in many of which there are partial exceptions ,of particular
counties, and particular articles, from the operation of the acts,
appeared to the committee to be the principal cause of the va
rious errors which were every where found to prevail.
    Upon an accurate comparison of the various measures pre
served in the Exchequer, and which are directed to be used for
sizing and adjusting all other measures, they were found to differ
materially from each other, and yet (the committee observe) as
the law now stands, all these measures must be Understood to
contain the like quantities, are equally legal, and may be indis
 criminately used.
    Of these various measures, the committee recommend the
adoption of the ale gallon of 282 cubical inches, and to abolish
the use of all the others.       They also recommend that the troy
pound     should  be  the   only standard of weight.          Though your
committee agree entirely wish the Report of the committee of
1758, that there should be only one gallon for measuring all
articles whatsoever, and only one denomination of weight ; yet
they cannot concur, for reasons which will be hereafter stated,
in the selection made by that committee in appointing these
standards.                                i
    This Report was agreed to by the house ; and in the year
1765 two bills were brought in by Lord Carysfort, who was
chairman of the committee of 175S, for the purpose of carrying
into effect the resolutions of that committee.            These bills were
severally   read a first and  second   time,   and  committed    ; and the
bills,  as amended    by  the  committee,    were  ordered to   be printed
on the 8th day of May.          Parliament was however prorogued in
that year on the 25th day of May; and these bills, which (as far
as can be collected from the Journals) were approved of by the
house, were thus unfortunately lost.
    Since that period, little has been done to accomplish this im
portant object.      A committee was indeed appointed in the year
                                                                    1790  j

                     on Weights and Measures.                   173
 1790; but they do not appear to have made any progress, as
 ;-our committee have been unable to find any minutes of their
 proceedings.
    Two acts were passed in the years 1795 and 1797, the 35
 Geo. III. cap. 102, and 37 Geo. III. cap. 143, which empower
justices of the peace to search for and destroy false weights, and
 to punish the persons in whose possession they are found ; but
no mention is made in these acts of deficient measures.
    Your committee now proceed to state what appear to them
to be the principal causes which have prevented the establish
ment of uniform weights and measures ; and to state the reasons
which have induced them to differ from the committee of 1758
in some of their resolutions.
    It appears to your committee, that the great causes of the in
accuracies which have prevailed, are the want of a fixed standard
in nature with which the standards of measure might at all
times be easily compared, the want of a simple mode of con
necting the measures of length with those of capacity and
weight, and also the want of proper tables of equalization, by
means of which the old measures might have readily been con
verted into the new standards.      Some rude attempts seem to
have been made to establish a mode of connecting the measures
of capacity with weight.     In an act of the 5 1st of Henry Third,
intituled, "  Assisa Panis et Cervisiae," it is declared " that an
English penny called the Sterling, round without clipping, should
weigh 32 grains of wheat, well dried, and gathered out of the
middle of the ear ; and 20 pence to make an ounce, 12 ounces
a pound, eight poupds a gallon of wine, and eight gallons of
wine a bushel of London."
    Nothing however can be more uncertain and inaccurate -than
this method of determining the size of a gallon measure by
the weight of a certain number of grains of wheat, which must
vary according to the season and the nature of the soil and cli
mate where they are produced.
    In order to obtain some information as to what were the best
means of comparing the standards of length, with some invaria
ble natural standard, your committee proceeded to examine
Dr. W. Hyde Wollaston, Secretary to the Royal Society, and
Professor Playfair of Edinburgh.
    From the evidence of these gentlemen, it appears that the
length of a pendulum making a certain number of vibrations in
a given portion of time, will always be the same in the same
latitude ; and that the standard English yard has been accurately
compared with the length of the pendulum which vibrates sixty
 times in a minute in the latitude of London.
                                                               The

174             Report from the Select Committee
   The length of this pendulum           is 39- 13047 inches,    of which the
yard contains 36.
    The French government have adopted as the standard of their
measures, a portion of an are of the meridian, which was accu
rately measured. The standard metre, which is the 10,000,000th
part of the quadrant of the meridian, which is engraved on the
platina scale preserved in the National Institute, has been com
pared with the English standard yard, by Professor Pictet of
Geneva, and was found to exceed              at the temperature of 32%
                                              it,
by   3-3702 inches ;   and at the temj^rature of 55                    by
                                                                    3-3828
                          -
inches.                      -
    The standard yard may therefore be at any time ascertained,
by a comparison either with an arc of the meridian, or the length
of the pendulum, both of which may be considered as invariable.
    The standard of linear measure being thus established and
ascertained, the measures of capacity arc easily deduced from               it,
by determining the number of cubical inches which they should
contain.     The standard of weight must be derived from the
measures    of capacity,  by   ascertaining the weight of given bulk
                                                                is a
of some substance      of   which the specific gravity          invariable.
Fortunately that substance which             most generally diffused over
                                              is
the world, answers this condition.           The specific gravity of pure
water has been found to be invariable at the same temperature;
 and   bya very remarkable coincidence,           cubic foot of pure water
                                                    a
 (or 1,728   cubical  inches)     at  the  temperature of 56y° bv Fah
 renheit-s thermometer, has          been   ascertained to weigh exactly
  1,000 ounces avoirdupois, and therefore the weight of 27-648
 inches  isequal to one pound avoirdupois.
    This circumstance forms the groundwork of all the succeeding
 observations of your committee.
    Although in theory the standard of weight             derived from the
                                                         is
 measures of capacity, yet      in  practice     will be found more con
                                                    it
venient to reverse this order.
     The weight of water contained             by
                                              any vessel affords the best
 measure of its capacity, and       is  more easily ascertained than the
 number of cubical inches      by   gauging.
    Your committee therefore recommend that the measures of
 capacity should be ascertained          bythe weight of pure or distilled
 water contained    by them, rather than by the number of cubical
 inches, as recommended in the 4th resolution of the committee
of 175S.
     Your committee are also of opinion, that the standard gallon,
from which all the other measures of capacity should be derived,
should be made of such a size as to contain such a weight of
pure water of the temperature of 56|° as should be expressed
                                                                            in

                       on Weights and Measures.                    175
in a whole number of pounds avoirdupois, and such also as would
admit of the quart and pint containing integer numbers of
ounces, without any fractionaf parts.
     If the gallon is made to contain 10 pounds of water, the
quart will contain 40 ounces, and the pint 20.
    This gallon recommended by your committee, will contain
276-48 cubical inches, being nearly 3 per cent, larger than the
gallon or tJth part of the Winchester bushel as fixed by the act
of the 13th and 14th of William and Mary, cap. 5, which con
tains 268-803 cubical inches, and the bushel will contain 221 1-84
 cubical inches, instead of 2150,42.
     Your committee are of opinion, that this departure from the
corn measure, which is employed in the collection of the malt
tax, and is supposed to be most generally used throughout the
kingdom, is justified by the advantages which they anticipate
 from the change.
     General uniformity cannot be expected, unless some simple
and accurate method of checking the standard measures is
adopted ; and as the weight of water appears to be the best and
most simple method of checking measures of capacity, it is de
sirable that all minute fractions of weight should be avoided.
 There will be much less chance of error in weighing the water
 contained in any measure, if only one or two weights are to be
 employed, than if a greater number were necessary, which would
 be the case if fractional parts were required.
     The difficulty of remembering long fractions is also an im
 portant consideration, and would very materially impede the
 attainment of that general uniformity which is so much de
 sired.
     If this gallon is adopted, the bushel will contain 80 lbs. of wa
 ter, or 221 1-84 cubical inches ; the quart 69- 12 cubical inches
 or 40 ounces of water ; the pint 34-56 cubical inches or 20
 ounces of water: the half pint will contain 17-28 cubical inches
  (which is exactly -r^th part of a cubical foot) or 10 ounces of
 water.     Any smaller measures might with great propriety be de
 scribed, according to the number of ounces of water they con
  tained.
     Your committee are of opinion, that the simple connection
 which will in this manner be established between the standard
 of weight and measures of capacity, will greatly tend to pre
 serve the uniformity of those measures which are found to- be
 most liable to error.     They have, besides, been induced to se
 lect this size of measure as a standard, both because it very
 nearly coincides with one of the- standard corn measures pre
 served in the Exchequer, namely the standard pint marked 1602,
 which contains 34-8 cubical inches j and also because it possesses

1/6              Report from the Select Committee
the advantage of bearing very simple relations to the gallon
measures     which are employed in measuring ale and wine.     The
calculations therefore which would be necessary for ascertaining
the corresponding duties, which must be charged upon excise-
able liquors, would be easilv made.
    The proportions between the proposed gallon and the measures
now in use, will be found in the Appendix.
    Your committee will now proceed to state their opinion with
regard to the standard of weight.     Although the troy pound is
the only weight established by law, yet the avoirdupois pound is
so much more generally known and used, that your committee
cannot hesitate to recommend it in preference to the troy pound.
Your committee are however inclined to recommend two ex
ceptions : As the goldsmitns regulate their traffic by the troy
weight ; and considering the connection of this branch of trade
with the standard of the coin, it appears advisable that gold and
silver should be sold by troy weight.
    Your committee would also recommend that the apothecaries
 weight should remain without any alteration, as any change in
 the weights employed by them in compounding their medicines
 might be attended with dangerous consequences.
    It appears to your committee that the most accurate mode of
 ascertaining the standard pound, is to immerse in water a solid
 cylinder of brass containing 27'648 cubical inches, and to as
 certain the difference between its weight in water and its weight
 in air, by means of the common hydrostatic balance.       The dif
 ference between its weight in water and its weight in air (or
 the weight of the volume of water occupying the same space) is
 the pound avoirdupois.
    This method is recommended, as it has been found to be much
 more easy to ascertain the solid contents of any body, by taking
 its external dimensions, than to find the exact contents of any
 measure by gauging.
     In this manner, the standard of length is kept invariable, by
 means of the pendulum ; the standard of weight, by the standard
 of length ; and the standard of capacity, by that of weight.
    Your committee have not gone into any detail of the inaccu
 racies of the present system, as they are very fully stated in the
 Report of the committee of 1758, before alluded to.
     In order to preserve uniformity in the weights and measures
 to be used in future, your committee would recommend that no
 person be allowed to make or sell any weights or measures with
 out having obtained a license for that purpose, on payment of
 a certain sum ; and that all weights and measures should be
 marked with the name of the maker, and the initials of the per
 son who examines them.        The person who last examines the
                                                            weights

                       on  Weights and Measures.                   177
'weights and measures, should not be permitted to alter them ;
 but, if he finds them to be incorrect, should return them to the
 maker, to be properly sized and adjusted.       All new weights and
 measures will therefore in this manner undergo a double exami
 nation.     Your committee are of opinion, that the powers given
 to justices of the peace by the acts of the 35 Geo. III. cap. 102,
 and the 37 Geo. III. cap. 143, to search for and destroy defi
 cient weights, and to punish the persons in whose possession
 they are found, should be extended, so as to give them the same
 powers with regard to false or deficient measures.
      Your committee cannot conclude without stating the opinion
 of Professor Playfair, with regard to the necessity of adhering
 strictly to one simple and general view in appointing the stand
 ards, without departing from it for the sake of accommodat
 ing individuals or particular classes of the community.      The ad
 vantage     of the public at large cannot  be  consulted, unless this
 rule is rigorously observed.     The simplicity and accuracy of the
 system would be sacrificed by any partial exceptions ; and it may
 be considered as certain, that unless the rules are simple, and
 the constructions independent of minuteness of division, an
 opening will be left for fraud, and for all the perplexity in which
 the standards of the country are at this moment involved.
       1. Resolved, That it is the opinion of this committee, that it
  is necessary, in order effectually to ascertain and enforce uniform
  weights and measures to be used for the future, that all former
  statutes relating thereto should be repealed.
       2. Resolved, That it is the opinion of this committee, that
  the distance between the two points in the gold studs in the
  brass rod, described in the- Report of the select committee of
   1758, and preserved in the custody of the clerk of this house,
  ought to be the length called a yard; and that one- third part
  thereof should be a foot, and the 12th part of the foot one
   inch.
       3. Resolved, That it is the opinion of this committee, that
  the length of a pendulum vibrating 60 times in a minute of time,
   in the latitude of London, has been ascertained to be 39' 13047
   inches, of which the standard yard contains 36.
       4. Resolved, That it is the opinion of this committee, that
   all measures of length whatsoever should be taken in parts, mul
   tiples, or certain proportions of the said standard yard.
       5. Resolved, That it is the opinion of this committee, that a
   cubic foot of pure water at the temperature of 56£-° has been
    ascertained to weigh exactly 1000 ounces avoirdupois.
       6. Resolved, That it is the opinion of this committee, that
    all measures of capacity should be ascertained by the weight of
       Vol. 44. No. 197. Sept. 1814.            M                water

                                                         >
 1/8             Report from the Select Committee
water therein contained, as well as by the number of c"ubieal
inches.
    7- Resolved, That it is the opinion of this committee, that all
 measures of the same denomination, whether of liquids or of
 dry goods, ought to contain the same weight of water, and the
same number of cubical inches.
    8. Resolved, That it is the opinion of this committee, that
 the gallon ought to contain 10 pounds of pure water, or 2/6-48
 cubical inches ; that the quart, or fourth part of the gallon, ought
 to contain 40 ounces of water, or 69-12 cubical inches ; that the
pint, or half of the quart, ought to contain 20 ounces of water,
 or 34-56 cubical inches.
    9. Resolved, That it is the opinion of this committee, that
the bushel ought to contain eight of the said gallons, or 80 lbs.
 of water, or 2211-84 cubical inches; and that all other mea
sures of capacity ought to be taken in parts, multiples, or pro
 portional parts of the said gallon.
    10. Resolved, That it is the opinion of this committee, that
the standard of weight ought to be the pound avoirdupois, which
is equal to the weight of 27-648 cubical inches of pure water
of the temperature of 56{°; that the 16th part of the said pound
 should be an ounce, and the 16th part of such ounce should be
 a drachm ; that the third part of the drachm should be a scruple,
 and the tenth part of the scruple one grain ; and that all other
weights should be taken from parts, multiples, or proportional
parts of this pound.
    1 1 . Resolved, That it is the opinion of this committee, that
all contracts, bargains, sales and dealings, ought to be taken
and adjudged to be according to the standards aforesaid ; and
that no person should recover the price of goods sold, or the
goods themselves, or any damages on account of any contracts,
bargains, sales or dealings, but according to the said standards.
    12. Resolved, That it is the- opinion of this committee, that
it ought to be penal for any person to have in his possession any
measure or weight that is not agreeable to the aforesaid standards.
    13. Resolved, That it is the opinion of this committee,- that
it ought to be made highly penal for any person to make or sell
any measure or weight that is not agreeable to the aforesaid
standards.                 '
    14. Resolved, That it is the opinion of this committee, that
for enforcing an uniformity in the weights and measures to be
used for the future, no person should be permitted to make
weights and measures, without having first obtained a proper
license for that purpose, on payment of a certain sum.
    15. Resolved, That it is the opinion of this committee^ that
                                                                  all

                        on Weights and Measures.                  I7S
   all weights and measures to be hereafter made, ought to be
   marked with the name of the maker ; and, after a proper ex
   amination of the weight or measure, the same to be stamped
  with the initials of the name of the person who has examined it.
       1.6. Resolved, That it is the opinion of this committee, that
   all weights exceeding one pound should be made of brass, cop
  per, bell metal, or cast iron ; and that all weights of one pound,
  or under, should be of gold, silver, brass, copper, or bell metal.
       17. Resolved, That it is the opinion of this committee, that
   the standard yard mentioned in the second resolution,          and
   a pound avoirdupois, made according to the directions before
  mentioned in this Report, together with models or patterns of
  the measures of capacity before mentioned, ought to be deposited
  in the Court of the Receipt of the Exchequer, and there safely
  kept under the seals of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, and of
  the Chief Baron, and the Seal of Office of the Chamberlains of
  the Exchequer, and not to be opened but by the order of the
   Chancellor of the Exchequer and Chief Baron for the time
   being.             ,                        •
                                                    v
       IS. Resolved, That it  is the opinion of this committee, that
  models or patterns of the said standard yard, gallon, and pound
  avoirdupois, and of the parts and multiples thereof, before men
   tioned, should be distributed in each county, city or corporate
   town being a county within itself, in such manner as to be readily
  used as evidence, in all cases where measures and weights shall
  be questioned before the justices of the peace for each county
   or city, and for adjusting the same in a proper manner.
      19. Resolved, That it is the opinion of this committee, that
  the provisions of the acts of the 35 Geo. 111. cap. 102, and the
  37 Geo. III. cap. 143, should be extended, so as to empower
•
  justices of the peace to search for and destroy false measures as
  well as false weights, and to hear and determine and put in exe
   cution the law with regard to weights and measures, and to in
  flict or mitigate such penalties as shall be thought proper, and
  to have such other authorities as shall be necessary for com
  pelling the use of weights and measures agreeable to the afore
  said standards.
      20. Resolved, That it is the opinion of this committee, that
   the sheriff of each county ought to be directed to summon a
  jury of twelve sufficient men living within the county, to return
  a verdict, on the comparison to be made before them of the pro
  portions which the new standards bear to those formerly in use
  in each county respectively; and according to the verdict then
   returned, Tables of equalization should be made, and copies of
  the same should be distributed through each countv;    -
                                                             and that
  -,                               M 2                -            all

180                 Report on Weights and MeasureS-
all existing contracts or rents payable in corn should be cal
culated according to these Tables of equalization.
   Dr. Wollaston in his examination before the committee made
the following remarks :
   There   is one standard        of capacity that would be particularly
advantageous, because it would bear simple proportions to the
measures now in use, so that one of the great inconveniences
arising from change of the standard would be obviated, by the
facility of making many necessary computations without reference
to Tables.
   If the gallon measure be defined to be that which contains
 10 lb. of water at 56f ,
   Then since the cubic foot of water weighs 1,000 oz. at 56 j,
         |  pint a= 10 oz. =               of cubic foot = 17-28 inches.
         Pint       = 20 oz. = 34-56.
         Bushel- = 801b. = 2211-84.
   And the simple proportions               above alluded to   will be found
as follows   :
                           CubicaHnches.
                     -
The gallon of 10 lb.= 276-48 x
Also
                                                   2S2-01 282 Beer gallon.
                         = 276-48 xU= 230-40 231 Wine gallon.
The pint of l|lb. = 34-56 x 3 = 103-68 103-40 Stirle jug.
Bushel of 801b. » . = 2211-84 x $£= 2 150-40 2150-42 Win. bus.
A cylinder of 18| diam
 .. Ditto... ]Si        -   .. X8-0105
                                         x 8 =2208-93; Approximate bus,
                                                          ;2211-84Newbus.
   The following mode of defming the standards of length, weight
and capacity, is submitted to the committee on weights and
measures, as the most distinct answer to their inquiries :
               One yard       lis      such, that a pendulum of 39-13
            of 36 inches       J      inches vibrates seconds in London.
Avoird '  / of^ne
          |      16
                     Poun<^
                     ounces
                              \J ls sucnj
                                      56|°
                                              that
                                             weighs
                                                    1 cubic foot of water at
                                                      1,000 ounces.
          f One pound of                                           = 1 pound
™
        " ^5,760                   is such, that 7,000     grains
                               J
                               -)
   °J                grains            (avoirdupois).
               One    allon        ma^ '5e suc-1 as t0 contam      ^  pounds
                             ~)
                                      of distilled water at the temperature
               of 8 V ints
                             Jl'      of 56^°, with great convenience.
                                                                XXIX.    The

                                   [     181          ]
XXIX.     The Opinions   Dr. Thomson and the Chevalier De-
                            (if
  lambre,      reference to Don
               in               Rodriguez's Animadversions
  on the Trigonometrical Survey, contrasted.  By Olinthus
  Gregory, LL.D.        the Royal Military Academy.
                            of
                             To      Mr. Tilloch.
Sir,  If    Dr. Thomson had not, with            species of moderation
                                                           a
and candour, which      I suppose he indulges that          may be seen
                                                                     it
with what propriety he assumes the character of             genuine phi
                                                                      a
losopher, positively shut his
                                " Annals" against any reply might             I
be inclined to make to his animadversions, and even to his
questions*, I   should not have troubled you with an additional
communication, on a subject now so well understood, and cor
rectly appreciated, as Don Rodriguez's remarks on the " Trigo
nometrical Survey."
    On that subject    took up my pen unwillingly but
                        I                                           ;gra     it   is
tifying  to know,  at the end  of    year
                                        a and     half,  that
                                                           a  on the  one
hand the only person who has put his name to any public cen
sure of my undertaking,        one who
                              is             obviously ignorant of the
                                                      is
matter respecting which he ventures to obtrude his sentiments
upon the world      ; while, on the other hand, the justice of my
strictures has been acknowledged                 by
                                           all competent judges, and
has indeed been confirmed               by
                                    the most distinguished astrono
mer now living in Europe.
    The readers of No. 179 of the Philosophical Magazine, and
No. 159 of the Journal, will recollect that            there attempted,
                                                                I
andI    hope successfully, to refute every argument advanced by
Don Rodriguez to prove the incorrectness of Colonel Mudge'e
observations at Arbury Hill       that
                                   ;      have proved that the Don's
                                             I
opinions as to the regular ellipticity of the terrestrial meridians,
and indeed as to the subject generally, run counter to those of
the greatest philosophers in Europe that an error of A\ seconds
                                                  ;
could not arise from the fixing, the construction, or the use of
the instruments employed        and that, so far from there being an
                                 ;
error of that magnitude either at Arbury Hill or Shanklin Bea
con (the Dunnose station), there cannot possibly be one of even
 half second, unless there be corresponding or greater error in
     a                                   a
the series of observations for years at the fixed observatories of
 Blenheim and Portsmouth.
    Notwithstanding this, however, Dr. Thomson, as                to con     if
vince the world how profoundly he         conversant
                                                 is     with  such topics,
affirms that " well-founded doubts may remain on the matter,"
and that " the point can only be settled                       by
                                                     repeating the ob-
             *   See Thomson's         Annals,    No. 16,      page 286.
                                         M   3                             servations   :
                                                                                            "

182     On some Animadversions    on  theTrigonomelrical Survey.
servations:" and, as if to add weight to his opinion, and show
how adequately and temperately he forms his judgement, he
observes " that there is no set of men more apt to indulge, in
inaccurate or absurd views than mathematicians ! !"           A posi
tion so liberal and demonstrative that he adds,, if it " stood in
need of confirmation,      it would be easy to bring forward some
of the most celebrated names both of former and present times
in confirmation of it."
    But, happily, neither the reputation of mathematicians nor the
true issue of this question depends upon the fiat of Dr. Thom
son.     A philosopher of no less celebrity than the Chevalier De-
lambre has published some " reflections" on Don Rodriguez-s
paper, in the
                 " Connaissance des Tems pour I- An 1816," from
which I shall select a few quotations.
    Speaking of the northern partial arc examined by Don Ro
driguez, and of its indicating a compression approaching to
nothing, he says, " I acknowledge that this last result is ex
 tremely destitute of probability; but it is little probable also,
 that the same instrument, which had given accurate zenith di
 stances at the two extremities, should furnish an ermr of five
 seconds at the mean station.        Besides, it is not fully demon
 strated that the curve of the meridian is a regular ellipse, and
 that the compression which is inferred from two very remote
 arcs, as those of Peru and Sweden, is the compression which
 accords with all the intermediate arcs." " The operations which
 determine the compression do not offer any real satisfaction, and
 we may yet doubt of the perfect regularity of meridians, as well
 as of their perfect similitude."      In another place M. Delambre
 remarks, " that of the eight partial arcs of Colonel Mudge,
 M. Rodriguez has only examined three ;" and adds, " it would
 be curious to see how Greenwich and Blenheim accord with the
 idea that the whole error arises, from the observations made at
 Arbury."
     Perceiving from these remarks how unwilling this eminent
 mathematician and astronomical observer was to infer, even from
  Don Rodriguez-s paper, that there existed an error of         \\  se
  conds at Arbury Hill,     I took  an   early opportunity   of trans
 mitting him a copy of my strictures inserted in your publication.
  I have the satisfaction to know that, with the exception of my
  remarks on the observations at Dunkirk and Chatillon, to which
  he has replied, he thinks my attempt successful : he agrees with
  me, that there can be no such error at Arbury Hill as Don Ro
  driguez imagines, and that my comparison of the observations
  there and at Dunnose with those at Blenheim and Portsmouth
  has set the matter at rest.
     Here, then, I may with perfect composure take my leave of
                                                                   this.

     Memoir upon the compound and simple Eyes of Insects.                  183
 this question.      Dr. Thomson, a respectable chemist, I believe,
 but (as far as his History of the Royal Society, and his ill-judged
 interference in this business, furnish evidence) a man of very
moderate mathematical and philosophical attainments, affirms
that " the point can only be settled by repeating the observa
tions." The Chevalier Delambre, the most excellent theoretical
and practical astronomer now living, is of a different opinion.
Whether your scientific readers will concur in- sentiment, on this
purely astronomical inquiry, with the chemist or the astronomer,
it is not difficult to predict.
     When a writer has rendered himself notorious for assuming an
air and tone of superiority and infallibility in all his controversial
productions, which ill accords with his palpable mediocrity of
talent and knowledge ; and when he is indiscreet enough to
libel a whole class (and that class comprehending such men as
Archim,edes and Newton and Laplace) for the supposed mistake
or misconduct of an individual ; it would neither be ungenerous
nor unjust to lower his pretensions, and completely expose his
numerous blunders.           But it is a task which, however beneficial
it might be to the public, and however easy of accomplishment,
has no fascinations for me.          Dr. Thomson's other observations*,
therefore, not bearing upon the main question, I leave to sink
by their own weight ; and remain,
                              Sir,
                                      Yours respectfully,
Royal Military Academy,      Woolwich,            OLINTHUS GREGORY.
           Septemher 6, 1814.
XXX. Memoir upon the compound and smooth or simple Eyes                         .
     of Insects, and on the Manner in which these two Species of
     Eyes concur in Vision. By M. Marcel de Serres, Pro
   fessor of    the Sciences    in the Imperial University.
                            [Continued  from p. 118.]                         '
The       tunic of the cornea is generally black in the coleopterce :
it  is the same    in those which want the choroid and the mucous
varnish.      The colour of this tunic is on the contrary much more
variable among the orthopterce, and sometimes one and the same
    * Such, for
                example, as the reasons he assisns, why the first two volumes
of " The Trigonometrical Survey," which were actually printed and pub
lished in The Philosophical Transactions, were nut admitted into that work.
O exquisite philosopher! to amuse and satisfy himself with accounting for
the non-appearance of a phenomenon in a certain place, which did, not
withstanding, appear the* permanently ! Should        I ever again be involved
in controversy, may    I have the good fortune to meet with such another
•jiponent !
                                      M4                                   eye

184                Memoir upon the compound
eve presents     it of two different shades, as we see in the locust*
lilifolia-: lastly, in certain species the tunic of the cornea pre
sents stripes variously coloured, and traced with the greatest re*
gularity. These stripes are parallel in the e.ryllus iineola : some
are of a blackish brown, and others of a yellowish gray, the clear
colour of which dips into that of the rest of the eye.          It must
be remarked, that frequently      these shades are effaced after  death,
on account of the alterability of the tunic of the cornea.        There
are even species in which the tunic of the cornea is as it were
marbled; then it exhibits various shades in different parts of the
eye.
     As to the tunic of the smooth or simple         eyes, it is seldom
black   in the orthopterce,    and  its colours are always uniform in
the same eye ; although they are much variegated, when we
examine a great number of species. The most common colours
are white, red, or pale green.
    A great number of kemipterce also present the tunic of their
cornea of colours pretty much variegated ; but its brown or
rather black tints are much more common than in the ortho
pterce.     As we find among the latter, several hemipterce present
the tunic of the cornea of their smooth eyes, either whitish or
of the most agreeable red, as is observed in the common grass
hopper.      Lastly, it appears to me, that almost Ydl the hemipterce
which live in water have the tunic of their cornea completely
black ; perhaps it is the same with all the culeopterce which have
the same way of living.
    The lepidoplerce furnished with the finest colours have also
the tunic of the cornea of shades greatly variegated.             Never
theless, among all those which            fly
                                         at sunset or during the-night
only, we observe that the tunic of their cornea         generally black.
                                                        is
 To conclude: the case       isthe same with several species of diurnal
butterflies: for instance, the papilio podalirius has the tunic         of
 the cornea completely black          and notwithstanding
                                      ;                       the sombre
 hue of this colour, the varnish of the choroid            very thick in
                                                             is
this species.     In the papilio atulanta the tunic of the cornea
is  of  a  clear brown   ;  thus the black point resulting from the
aperture through       which   the optic nerve passes,       seen on the
                                                              is
outside of the eye.      It   must be observed, however, that as this
circular aperture   is   formed in this species    by vesicular tracheae,
 and these tracheae being a little separated from each other,
the black point which            seen generally at the exterior of the
 eye,  seems   surrounded     by is
                                 other black points, which present       a
peculiar form,    all having   a smaller extent than the central point.
 In  the  papilio cardui, the tunic of the cornea          ofis   brilliant
                                                                   a
 green, but much clearer in the lower part of the eye than in
 the upper, on account of the luminous rays less easily reaching

                   and smooth or simple Eyes       of Insects.       185
them.     This tunic is thin, whereas the varnish of the choroid
and the choroid itself are on the contrary thick.          We also ob
serve externally on the eye the central black point, and several
others produced by the same cause with those of the eye of the
papilio atalantn. Only these blackish points are more irregular
in their form than those of the papilio atalanta.
    The larvae of the iepidopterce have only smooth eyes situated
generally on the sides of the head. They are variable in colour
and number.       Thus we observe eight in- the silkworm, and six
only   in  the  caterpillar.     The former are black, and the latter
transparent.      As  to their  internal  structure, we shall speak of
it elsewhere, inasmuch as it exhibits some differences from that
of the other smooth eyes.
    In the neuropterce, the tunic of the cornea is also very much
varied, and its colours vary much in various species.              In the
libellula vulgaris, the compound eves exhibit all their upper
portion of a reddish brown, and all the lower of a yellowish
green.     On carefully removing the cornea, it is easily seen that
the difference in the two colours is owing to the diversity of
colour in the tunic of the cornea.         It seems even that this tunic
is thicker in the brown part of the eye than in the green. We
shall also remark that the upper facets of the cornea are greater
than the lower; which is rather singular.             If we remove the
 cornea, we distinctly perceive the optic nerves passing through
 the choroid and its varnish, membranes which are easily distin
 guished from their being of a deep black.
    The circular trachea surrounds the retina, and its ramifications
 pierce with the optic nerves all the other membranes, dispersing
 themselves ad infinitum under the cornea.            This disposition is
 so evident, that we may easily     conceive howSwammerdam thought
 the cornea was formed by the meeting of these trachefe.               In
 other respects the eye of this libellula presents nothing parti-
 cular, with the exception of the enlargement or great extent of
 the retina.
    I have also dissected the eyes of certain larvae of agrion and
 aeshma, but have observed nothing very different.           These larvae
 seemed to want the circular trachea, the place of which is sup
 plied by an infinity of other tracheae, which spread in a great
 number around the optic nerve, which is very broad and thick
 in these larvae.    I never observed that the eye had any particular
 conformation in the species which habitually frequent the water;
 and this remark is important, because the case is very different
 in the other animals.         The form of the cornea also presents
 differences in the species in the aquatic insects, as well as in
 those which live habitually in the air.
                                                                        If

186              Memoir upon the compound
   If the tunic of the cornea presents shades much varied in the
lepidopterce and neuropterce, these shades are not less varied in
the hymenoptercp, in which we sometimes see a gray, a green, a
yellow, and even all the shades of black.         Certain bees, and
particularly the  violacea, present  this tunic of the most opaque
black. Generally the kymenopterce have their cornea very thick,
and it is not difficult to remove it by thin slices.     Sometimes
this cornea is surrounded by hairs, and rarely do they issue from
the cornea itself.     In a great number of species, the circular
trachea is totally wanting ; but its place is alwavs supplied by
other and smaller tracheae which surround the optic nerve, and
in general these tracheae are extremely multiplied.
   What has been said with respect to the eyes of the kymeno
pterce is applicable to those of the diptertp, which have the tunic
of the cornea with the most variegated shades. In a certain
number of species these shades are very brilliant, and the la-
banus as well as the musca hold a distinguished part in this re
spect.
    Certain species of syrphus present, at the exterior of the eye,
two semi-circular stripes deeper than the general tint.      These
stripes are produced as usual by a deeper shade of the tunic of
the cornea in this part of the eye : but what renders this disposi
tion remarkable   is, that there are numerous hairs precisely in
this very part  of the  compound eye, and which originate from
the cornea itself.
   As to the eyes of the apterae, they are in general of dark co
lours, and not very large.    These insects seem therefore not to
be much favoured in respect to the organ of sight, and probably
their way of life does not require acute vision.
  It     remarkable that the insects which live in water have
         is                                                      in
general their eyes dim and opaque externally, nearly like those
which exist in dark places.    Thus the nymphs of the libellulcB
in passing to the condition of  a  perfect insect assume brilliant
and transparent eyes, whereas previous to their last metamor
phosis these eyes were dull and without lustre.   This observation
has not escaped the sagacity of Reaumur in his History of In
sects.
   In the descriptions which we have given of the situation and
form of the compound and simple eyes of insects,    it will be re
marked that the former disposition    isless subject to vary than
the latter.  This consideration might have arisen priori, since
                                                    a
no form ran exhibit differences in any order of animals, without
other variations following in the parts which surround those
whose disposition changes.    The only very remarkable example
which we can mention of the variation in the position of the
                                                         compound

             and smooth or simple Eyes             of Insects.                       187
compound eyes, is that of the diopsis ichneumonea.              This insect
exhibits its eyes situated nearly like those of the mollusci: thus
they are placed at the extremity of a long pedicle, or a kind of
contractile tentacular point, but which can at least follow all
the motions of the head.         We may say, on observing this sin
gular organization, that this insect has its eyes at the extremity
of a telescope ; but as we have not seen it alive, nOr dissected
it,
it      would be difficult to decide how far this idea          correct.
                                                                       is
     As to the descriptions which we shall presently give of the re
lation which exists between the size of the bodies and that of
 the compound eyes, they prove that the dipterce, the hymeno-
pterce, lepidopterce, and neuropterce have very large eyes                           :   it
 even seems that there are few animals equally favoured.                As a
 great number of coleopierce and hemipterce have also very large
 eyes in comparison to their bodies, we may say that this size                           is
 very general in all insects.      The two solitary examples of the
phasmce       and  scolopendrce ought not to prevent us from con
 cluding that, of all the animals, insects have the largest eyes in
 comparison with the size of their bodies.
  §     II. Of the simple or smooth Eyes. The numher of simple
 eyes is   far from being as constant as that of the compound eyes.
  Certain species present two others four, six, and eight
                                 ;                                     but in   ;
 general    we  observe  three.   This number        even
                                                        is  pretty  constant
 in families which have at once compound and smooth eyes.
 We rarely see exceptions to this arrangement; and the llatta, as
 well as certain acheta, are perhaps the only kinds which, having
 compound eyes, have only two simple eyes situated on the upper
  part of the head.     When there are three simple eyes, they are
  always arranged    in the form of     triangle, so that there are two
                                         a
  lateral, and one in the middle     :their situation       also constantly
                                                                  is
  on the summit of the head.         Sometimes, however, the simple
  eyes are arranged two on the summit, and one in the middle of the
  front of the head.      This arrangement holds in the gryllus, the
  truxalis, the acrydium, the locusla, and the gryllotalpa.
      The empusa, which have upon the summit of the head small                   a
  triangular elongation, cannot on account of this organisation
  see objects with their eye in the middle.
      The general foym of the simple eyes         very variable
                                                   is                 seems,:   it
  however, that in general that of the lateral eyes                elongated
                                                                        is
   and elliptical, whilst that of the middle one          round
                                                             is     there are
                                                                            :
  also many exceptions in this respect, since the acheta and the
   gryllotalpa present that in the middle of very much elongated
                                                        a
   oval of which the greatest diameter         transversal.
                                              is
      The smooth or simple eye           isformed of an external hard
   transparent membrane, convex externally, and concave internally.
   This membrane enveloping the eye necessarily determines it»
                                                                                     form:

183                 Memoir upon             the compound
form : it is not composed, like that of the compound eyes, of an
infmite number of facets, but rather of a membrane of a single
piece, and on which no divisions are perceptible.    We may con
sider this first membrane as a cornea, on account of its trans
parency, a transparency which we observe even at the exterior
of the eye, on account of the little colour of the varnish applied
on the membranes situated under it.
   After having removed the cornea, we find a viscous tunic more
or less thick, and of which the colour also undergoes consider
able variations.    Thus this tunic or varnish presents the most
opposite  co'ours : it is almost always black in the hymenopterce,
whereas it is whitish in the wthoplerce.     In the caterpillar, this
yarnish is frequently black, yellow, or red, and sometimes it is
of the most beautiful brilliant green. This viscous tunic has
been regarded by Swammerdam as a kind of uvea, although it
seems very like the tunic which covers the cornea in compound
eyes.
   We ought not, however, to decide that the tunic of the cornea
of the simple eyes is distinct from the varnish of the choroid.
This appears probable notwithstanding, since in certain species
the external colour of the simple eyes is not the same with that
of the varnish with which the choroid is covered. Thus much
is certain, that the cornea of the simple eyes is always coated
internally with a kind of varnish, the colour of which appears
at the exterior of the eye on account of the transparency of the
cornea. This coating surrounds the optic nerve, which proceeds
into the concavity of the cornea after having passed through the
choroid and its varnish.     Swammerdam very properly remarks,
that the smooth eyes of insects receive nerves which are fur
nished to them by the cerebriform ganglion lodged in the head.
Lyonnet, whose researches announce so much sagacity, has also
observed that the simple eyes of the willow caterpillar are com
posed of a cornea and a choroid traversed by the extremity of
the optic nerve*.
   The optic nerves of the simple eyes issue immediately from
the brain, when these eyes are removed far enough from each
other; but when, on the contrary, they are close together, as
observed in the caterpillar and a great number of larvae, the
optic nerves are only divisions of a larger nerve which issues di
rectly from the brain.
   Lyonnet has described this arrangement accurately, and the
figure which he gives of      Plate XVIII. No.
                                 it,                 very correct.6,   is
Then there exists    peculiar membrane in the form of
                     a                                     funnel,            a
to which the six branches of the optic nerve are attached, and
      * Traile                        Chenille du
               Aaatomiquc   de   la                 S   .tile, par Lyonnet,   p.   570.
                                                                                          this

               and smooth or simple Eyes       of Insects.                1S9
this membrane ends at the place where the nerve itself divides
into these six branches. We do not know positivelv, if this ar
rangement exists in the spiders: we only know that it does not
hold in the scorpions. Besides, externally the eyes of the spiders
and of the scorpions have the same structure and figure with
the simple eyes of insects.
   Immediately after the optic nerve and the tunic of the cornea,
we observe a peculiar membrane which we 6hall consider as a
kind of choroid.       It exhibits, however, this difference from the
choroid of the compound eyes, that it has no varnish so distinct;
and fmally, its breadth is always greater than the circumference
of the cornea itself. This membrane, coloured frequently in red
or black, is also sometimes colourless ; and lastly, its whiteness
is so dull that it is easy to distinguish it from the tracheae. The
thickness of this membrane is great enough to make it resist
even a long maceration.
     In the species in which the simple eyes are whitish, we see this
membrane clothed with a coating of colours varying with the
colours of the tunic which covers the choroid.              This arrange
ment is even very perceptible at the exterior of the eye.
     It would seem that this choroid is particularly very thick and
white in such species as have their cornea concave and as if
•unk.      This arrangement must have taken place on account of
 the divergency undergone by the rays of light in arriving on a
 concave and transparent surface, their direction even being pa
 rallel, a divergency which is such that we may very well con
 ceive that the eye would be too much affected by            it,   a black
                                                                   if
 membrane had also absorbed           certain number of luminous rays.
                                       a
A    white membrane, sending back on the contrary all the rays
 which it  receives, may augment the excitability of the optic nerve,
 and thus contribute to render the vision more distinct.                Al
 though this species of choroid presents       in certain   circumstances
a   very great whiteness,   it     nevertheless always easy to distin
                                  is
 guishit   from the tracheae, the only vessels with which           can be
                                                                     it
 confounded.       For, as little as we are in the habit of seeing the
 organs of insects, we can easily ascertain the tracheae from their
 azure colour; and besides,        bydissecting them in water (the most
 advantageous way of acting in these experiments) we see the
 tracheae rise above the surface of the liquid and from that mo
                                                  ;
 ment we can no longer have the smallest doubt, for the tracheae
 are the only organs which have so little specific gravity.
      This choroid, the membranes of which are close and very
  thick, seems formed    by   a cellular texture of very close meshes,
  over which  a   heap of tracheae are distributed.        It   istherefore
  underneath the cornea that the optic nerve          is  situated, which
  issuing from the anterior faces of the brain proceeds to the mid

  190   Memoir upon Ike compound and simple Eyes           of Insects.
 die of the eye.        It does not appear that this optic nerve has
 any swelling at its base, or that a kind of retina is formed ana
 logous to that of the compound eyes.           In some species it ap
 pears   to  me   that  this nerve  becomes    broader   towards its ex
 tremity,   i. e. at the   point  where   it corresponds to the cornea.
 I shall not, however, assert this positively, for it is possible that
 this dilatation may depend on the contraction produced by the
 section of the nerve.       As I have not dissected these organs in the
 living subject, (which ought always to be done for the sake of
 precision,) I have not been able to verify, whether this dilatation
 depended on the sensibility of the nervous organ.          However the
 case may be, the optic       nerve  before reaching the cornea tra
 verses the muscles of the various parts of the head, sometimes
 enters a trachea, penetrates afterwards through the choroid and
 its varnish, and afterwards, when surrounded with the tunic of
the cornea, corresponds to the internal surface of this membrane,
on which it seems to lose itself.
    As the cornea of the simple eyes is not, like that of the com
pound eyes, divided by numerous facets, it has not been necessary
 that the small nerves should give it a great number of small
 threads, but only that they should proceed to the point where the
divergency of the rays of light should be the least considerable.
    The small optic nerves which proceed to the simple eyes issue
from the brain.        As their position varies in regard to the other
parts, they are sometimes the second, third, fourth, or fifth pair
of nerves : this depends on their situation with respect to the
various organs of the head, a situation which determines by what
pair they are furnished.         These nerves are directed always to
wards the simple eyes, being retained in their position either by
pneumatic pouches, or by tracheae, proceeding more or less
obliquely according to their position with respect to the brain.
They always terminate under the cornea, forming a kind of re-
titfa.
    It results from this description, that the simple eyes are formed
quite differently from the compound eyes.            Thus the cornea of
the former is all of one piece, whereas in the latter it is formed
by the union of a great number of hexagonal facets. As to the
tunic of the cornea, it does not exhibit any difference in the-two
kinds of eyes, except perhaps in point of thickness; but with re
spect to the varnish of the choroid, it is always less distinct in
the simple than in the compound eyes.            Finally, the choroid it
not always black in the simple eyes, whereas it is uniformly in
the compound.          Sometimes this membrane, instead of being
black and opaque, is of a peculiar whiteness and lustre. To con
clude : this membrane and its tunic are placed in the same way
with respect to the other parts in both kinds of eyes, and their
                                                                     uses

   Particulars respecting     Hail     Storms in the West Indies.   191
uses are also similar.   The large circular trachea, which we ob
serve in the compound eyes when they present a choroid, does
not seem to exist in the simple eyes.      In fact, the tracheae or
pneumatic pouches which belong to them are used in supporting
the optic nerve, and perhaps also in forming a part of the cho
roid in that sort of eye. At least the tracheae of insects seem to
perform the functions of the blood-vessels which are observed on
the choroid of the red-blooded animals.
                         [To      be continued.]
XXXI.     Some Particulars respecting Hail Storms in the West
   Indies in  the Month of April 1814;    and Experiments t»
   ascertain the medicinal Powers of the Hura crepitans.
                          To      Mr. Tilloch.
                                           Nevis, June 32, 1314.
          T,"hough I      already communicated to Sir Joseph
                       have
Banks some particulars respecting the late hail storms in this
island and Saint Christopher's, a slight notice of their uncom
mon phaenomena may not be deemed altogether undeserving of
a place  in your Magazine.
   The fall of hail intermingled with masses of ice took place in
the island of Saint Christopher-s at eleven o'clock in the fore
noon of Wednesday the 13th of last April, at which time I was
absent from that island on a visit to a friend here.  The weather
had been for some time previous excessively dry, and the heat in
general very great ; and even upon the morning of the day on
which this phaenomenon appeared, the atmosphere was at an
early hour close, sultry, and oppressive.     As the day advanced,
black and dense clouds gathered from all sides, and thunder
was heard at a distance ; a small quantity of rain fell in the
southern and western parts of this island (Nevis), but the thickest
part of the storm skirting our northern shores proceeded along
the Salt Pond Hills towards the valley of Basseterre (St. Kitts),
where an -abundance of rain fell.    A short time before the hail
fell, an unusual and, as some described            it,
                                             even painful sensation
of cold was observed, a loud clap of thunder was heard in the
south-east, and the rattling of the hail upon the roofs of the
houses attracted the attention of the inhabitants little acquainted
with the nature of such appearances.
   The fall of hail was       by
                               no means general throughout the
island, confining itself to certain narrow limits little removed
from. the line of mountains which, after the manner of the Ap-
penines, traverses the centre of the island from east to west.
No hail fell at Basseterre    but at the estate called O-Gee, be
                              ;
                                                               longing

 192 Particulars respecting      Hail  Storms in the West Indies.
longing to Sir James Earle, its descent was first observed, and
lasted but a few minutes.         This estate is situated about two
miles nearly due north of Basseterre. Hence the cloud proceeded
•kirting the northern side of the mountains in the direction of
Dieppe Bay, where large masses of ice, mostly of a radiated
form, were observed to fall during a space of not less than fifteen
minutes,     Mr. Charles Woodley, who resides in this neighbour
hood, and is an enlightened and intelligent planter, made draw
 ings of three of these masses, which he kindly permitted me to
 copy for Sir Joseph Bahks's inspection ; to whom 1 accordingly
forwarded them.       Some masses were sr.id to have fallen which
 measured seven inches in length : but I suspect this to be an
 exaggerated statement.         The consternation produced among
 the negroes by so unusual (and to them inexplicable) an event
 can be more readily conceived than described. But the white
inhabitants it might be supposed would have regarded it with
 somewhat more philosophic composure : yet I have been credibly
 informed that a Creole overseer who happened to be in the field,
 upon being struck with one of the hail-stones, fell in a fainting
 fit (the result of his fears) from his horse. A similar occurrence
 is said to have been observed some years ago by the officers
 of the garrison at Brimstone Hill ; but I cannot procure any cer
  tain account of the period or circumstances of the event.
     Subsequent to this fall of ice in St. -Kitts, two hail showers
 have been observed in the windward district of this island, the
  last of which took place so late as Trinity Sunday.       The hail
  stones, I am informed, were of the size of the common gray
  nickers (the seeds of the Guilandina honduc). I cannot learn
 that any radiated specimens were observed among them, as was
  the case at Saint Kitts.
     I have lately made a few experiments with a view to ascertain
  the safety and efficacy of the seeds of the Sand Box (Hura crepi
  tans) as a purgative remedy.       Their operation is commonly re
  presented as so violent, both upwards and downwards, as to en
  danger the life of the experimenter.        Aware however of the
  strong disposition to exaggeration, and acquainted with an in
  stance in which upwards of a dozen of these seeds had been eaten
  as an agreeable fruit by a newly-arrived European, without pro
  ducing any fatal result, H conceived that they might, by a cau
  tious use, prove an advantageous as vveli as highly palatable ad
  dition to our Materia Medica.        I accordingly took at first an
  entire nut previously decorticated, upon a full stomach, but felt
   no nausea or other inconvenience follow; neither were my
   bowels, as I had wished, in the least affected : in consequence of
   which, upon the following morning I took half a nut, which
   weighed six grains, from which I omitted to remove the germ
                                                                  and

  Chemical Inquiries into the Nature      of severalfatty   Substances.  1 93
  and interior lining.    In consequence I felt for some time after
 an unpleasant burning sensation in my throat, but neither
 purgative nor emetic effect followed.         I afterwards repeated the
 six-grains dose, having previously       removed    the germ -and paper
 like lining, and with much difficulty obtained one stool little dif
 fering from the natural.
     I have not at present prosecuted these researches further : but,
 should circumstances admit of my following up these preliminary
 experiments, I shall lose no time in communicating their results
.to you for the general information of the medical world.               The
 nut of the Sand Box is extremely palatable, tasting much like a
 good filbert.
    An American captain who was in the habit of visiting Saint
 Kitts, before the war, was in the constant practice of using one or
 more of the seeds of the common Physic Nut ( Jatropha Curcas)^
 as a purgative when his bowels were irregular, using only the
 precaution of separating the germ, in which the violently drastic
 effects seemed solely to reside.
                I have the honour* to remain,
                       With high esteem, sir,
                                 Your most obedient servant,
                                          William Hamilton, M. B.
  XXXII.    Chemical Inquiries into the Nature of several fatty
     Substances, and particularly on their Combinations with the
    Alkalis.     By M. Chevreul*.
  Of a  new Substance, called Margarine, obtained from the Soap
               made from the Fat of Pork and Potash.
     1.  The    combination of a fat substance with an alkali, pre
 senting several products which are of great utility in the arts
 and domestic oeconomy, was examined with respect to their
 usual properties : but in point of theory they were not made the
 subject of any special inquiry, so that we are reduced to hypo
 theses in order to explain one of the most common operations in
our manufactories.       The chemists of Stahl-s school, who thought
that the acid obtained from distilled oils was one of their con
stituent principles, generally regarded it as the cause of saponi
fication. This idea was renounced when Lavoisier demonstrated
 that most of the bodies produced from organic matter, when di
stilled, resulted from a decomposition produced by caloric. Pre
vious to Lavoisier M. Berthollet had regarded saponification in
 a more simple and accurate manner, by making it depend on
                  * Annates de Ckimie,' tome lxxxviii, p. 225.
 Vol.44. No. 197. Sept. 1814.                   N                        the

194         Chemical Inquiries into the Nature       of several
the affinity of the oil itself for the alkalis : so that soaps must
be considered as compounds in which salifiable bases were neu
tralized by fat substances, the action of which was analogous to
that of the acids : it was in this respect that he compared the
oils to the latter substances, and we shall presently see how far
this comparison was just. This way of thinking was adopted :
but afterwards they went further, and pretended that the oil was
not saponified but by absorbing oxygen : they did not found
their opinion upon any positive fact, the slightest indications
appearing sufficient.
    2. In the present state of chemistry, however, we must not
content ourselves with bare assertions : to establish a theory,
we must be acquainted with the bodies which are in contact,
analyse the compounds which they have formed, and see if the
principles separated from it are the same with those which have
been put in reaction.      In commencing the account of my ex
periments    on  this  substance, I find the double advantage of
fixing the attention upon one of the most common products of
the saponification of animal fat, and at the same time facili
tating the study of fatty substances, by making known a species
which possesses their generic properties in the highest possible
degree.
    6. When we immerse soap made of pork grease and potash
in a large quantity of water, one part is dissolved, while another
is precipitated in the form of several brilliant pellets, which I shall
call mother of pearl substance.
Of the     Purification of the Mother    of Pearl       Substance,   and   of
                its Decomposition    by the   Muriatic Acid.
    4. Eighty grammes (3| oz. or 1551 grains English) dried in
the air were diluted in 12 litres (3 gallons l-fifo pints English)
of water, and exposed to a temperature ranging from 50° to 60°:
they absorbed this liquid, and increased greatly in size.     At the
end of ten days, the matter was put upon a filter ; when it was.
drained, twenty litres of cold water was thrown over              it,
                                                              to de
prive it  of any  soluble  soap which    might
                                         it     retain.   Whfen thus
washed     itwas dried, then treated thrice successively with two
litres of boiling alcohol of the gravit ofy   820 divided into three
                                                0
equal portions     the first congealed almost wholly upon cooling;
                   :
the second was slightly disturbed, and the third almost not at all.
The residue insoluble in alcohol weighed rather more than two gram
mes (about 38f grains)      ;   resembled the mother of pearl sub
                                it
stance :   itwas different, however, from the part which was dis
solved.    The experiment taught me that the mother of pearl
substance was formed of fatty substance, absolutely new, com
                             a
bined with potash, lime, and oxide of iron         and that when we
                                                    ;
                                                             treated

fatty   Substances, and on their Combinations with the        Alkalis A 95
 treated it with boiling alcohol * we dissolved the combination
 of potash, and a little of those of lime and oxide of iron, while
 the latter, insoluble or much less soluble than the former, formed
 the residue.
    I convinced myself of these facts by treating in the following
 way the depositions which were separated from the alcoholic
 washings by cooling and concentration        f
                                              comparatively with the
 residue.    I put some very dilute muriatic acid into two porcelain
 capsules : to the one I added some mother of pearl substance
which was soluble in alcohol, and to the other the residue.         On
 heating   them    the acid  was  combined  with the  salifiable bases,
 and the melted fatty substance was separated from the liquid.
 After keeping this substance in fusion in distilled water, and
 leaving it to become solid by cooling, I added the washings to
 the acid liquids, and evaporated to dryness.       I found that 100
 parts  of soluble  matter  had  given to the  muriatic  acid 0-06 of
lime and oxide of iron, and 8-07 of potash, while the residue
 had given to this acid lime, oxide of iron, and a mere atom of
potash."
   5. The fatty substance, separated from the salifiable bases,
was dissolved in boiling alcohol : on cooling, it was obtained
crystallized and very pure, and in this state it was examined.
As it has not been hitherto described, it ought to be distinguished
from other substances by a peculiar name : consequently I pur
pose to call it margarine, from the Greek word signifying pearl,
because one of its characters is to have the appearance of mo
ther of pearl, which it communicates to several of the combina
tions which it forms with the salifiable bases.
                                Of   Margarine.
    6. It is of a pearly white, and tasteless.   Its smell is feeble,
'and a little similar to that of white wax.      It is lighter than
 water.    At 45-2-5 Reaumur it melts into a very limpid colourless
 liquid, which crystallizes upon cooling into brilliant needles of
 the fmest white.
                                it,
    7. When we distilled         melted, and exhaled a white vapour
                                it
 which was deposited in farinaceous-like matter in the neck of the
                            a
 retort.    boiled, and soon afterwards emitted an invisible vapour,
            It
   *   A   process somewhat similar has been adopted   inthis country to make
what   iscalled "transparent soap."— Translator.
 t   Every washing was separated from its deposition, and the filtered     li
quor was concentrated tq two-thirds its primitive volume, afterwards cooled
and filtered. The depositations      the filter were washed with cold alcohol,
                                     in
then pressed     in
                 joseph paper, and by this means  I    obtained the mother of
pearl substance     a state of purity.
                      in
                                     N    2                            which

 196          Chemical Inquiries into the Nature    of several
 which     was condensed into a liquid, and then into a white concrete
 mass.      At the  same time there was produced a    little acid water,
 which     was indebted for this property to vinegar, and perhaps
 some sebacic acid, and a strong smell, which I am inclined to
 attribute to a combination of volatile empyreumatic oil and
 acetic acid.     When the matter contained in the retort began to
 turn black, and the product extricated from it was coloured
 yellow, I changed the recipient, and continued the fire until there
 was no longer any thing volatilized ; very little gas or liquid
 was formed, and almost the whole of the product was solid. Four
 grammes (6      If  grains) of margarine yielded 0-045 gr. (about
 -3432 grain) of charcoal, containing an atom of lime, iron and
 potash, a first product, which was very white, weighing 2-19 gr.
  (33 grains), a second product, coloured yellow, weighing 1-45 gr.
  (22 grains).
     8. The first product boiled with half its weight of potash dis
 solved in water combined with the alkali.           The combination
 diluted in water deposited a good deal of pearly matter.         Hence
 it follows that this product Was formed in a great measure of
 non-decomposed margarine.
     9. The second product treated in the same way gave out au
 atom of ammonia, which I thought accidental : instead of being
 combined with potash, it melted into a yellow oily liquid, which
 was again boiled with double its weight of alkali, and which re
 fused to unite with it.      After these two operations it weighed
 one gramme, and there was of course a loss : it had given little
 or nothing to the potash.         When it was heated in alcohol it
 liquefied : a great quantity of this liquid is necessary to dissolve
 it : upon cooling, small crystals were precipitated of a pearly
 citrine white, which became of a slight yellow by fusion : the
 alcohol from which the latter were precipitated, when evaporated,
 left an oil of a deep yellow, which was liquid at 18° centigrade.
  If the second product contained margarine, it must be concluded
>
 that it was there in a particular state of combination, since the
 concrete crystallized substance and the liquid substance differ
 from it in every respect.
     10. The alkaline liquors which had been boiled with the two
 foregoing products were united, concentrated, and filtered several
 times.      They contained very little fatty matter in solution :
 when distilled with sulphuric acid, they gave an atom of vine
 gar, and a residue containing some small crystals which had the
 appearance of sebacic acid.
     1 1 . Margarine is insoluble in water.
     12. It is extremely soluble in alcohol; for 100 parts of the,
 latter of the gravity of 0-816 dissolved at 75° 18079 parts.
                                                                   This

fatty Sul stances, andon        theirCombinations          ivit/i the Alkalis.   197
This solution was only disturbed at 41° of the centigrade. Upon
cooling it congealed into a solid mass : this mass had a greenish
shade, which became particularly evident in those parts of the
centre where a hole was made with a glass spatula.     This phae
nomenon seemed to be owing to the alcohol, for the colour dis
appeared on the evaporation of this liquid.      When the mar
garine is deposited by a gradual cooling, from a solution which
is not saturated with        crystallizes in small needles which
                               it,
                               it
unite in stars.
                   Action      of   Potash    on   Margarine.
     13.
       I     now come to speak of one of the most remarkable
 combinations of margarine, being that which               forms with potash.
                                                           it
 It truly characterizes this substance, and leads me to examine
 some points of the chemical doctrines respecting acidity.
     14.   When explaining as above the process lor purifying the
 mother of pearl substance,         I have observed that the latter gave
 me 8-07 gr. per cent, of potash          ; but having found alkali in the
 charcoal of distilled margarine, and being thereby convinced that
the muriatic acid had not completely decomposed the mother
of pearl substance,        wished to make           anew analysis of it.
                                                                                 I I
                      I
took two grammes of this substance perfectly pure and dried.
-decomposed      them by the muriatic acid, and kept the mar
garine several times in fusion in acidulated water, in order to
take from   it   all its alkali.    I  obtained 0-255 gr. of muriate              of
dry potash, which represented 0-1(532 of potash, admitting 64 of
base in the muriate of potash.            The dried margarine weighed
 1"-865 gr. after having been fused.           The 0-0282 exceeding the
weight    of  the  matter  analysed, ought to be attributed to water
remaining in the margarine,          if the calculation of the muriate of
potash which we have admitted be exact.                  In order to assure
myself that the muriatic acid had dissolved all the potash united
to the margarine,     I   charred two grammes of mother of pearl
matter in   a    small platina crucible        ;  lixiviated the charcoal,
                                                   I
and afterwards incinerated      it
                                :     the atom of ashes which        left was
                                                                      it
mixed with the lixivium of charcoal.                  combined the whole
                                                       I
with the muriatic acid, and obtained 0-253 of muriate of pot
ash, which confirms the first result.             think from this that we
                                                   I
may   state  the  following as   the  composition of the mother of pearl
substance  :
                Margarine                  91-84         100
                Potash                       8-16           8-88
    15. The pearly matter       is   soft to the touch, and has no per
ceptible taste.
    16. When heated       in the sand bath,          does not melt;
                                                    it                     be-
                                                                           it
                                        N 3                               gins

198           Chemical    Inquiries into the Nature             of several        ..   -
gins to turn soft,       however,       and the lumps of matter get joined
together.
                                   Action of Water.
    17. It does not undergo any action from cold water., for it
preserves all its physical properties after the maceration of a
month in this liquid : nevertheless, if we examine the latter, we
find in it a small particle of alkali, and some almost impercepti
ble traces of pearly substance.        Hot water has a more decided
action on it: thus, when we put into 100 grammes of boiling
water one gramme of pearly substance, the latter becomes semi-
transparent, it resembles flakes of alumine recently precipitated
from a very dilute solution.       The water filtered when boiling
does not pass over clear ; if before filtering it we allow it to cool,
it becomes turbid, and deposits mother of pearl substance : if we
then filter    it,
                 we find very little potash in it. 1-5 litre of water
(3-1699    pints  English) in which       had boiled 20 grammes of
                                             I
pearly  matter,   filtered after having  been cooled and evaporated,
left  a  residue    of  subcarbonate and of pearly matter which
scarcely weighed 0-l gr. (1| grain).          The matter deposited
from the boiling water retains a little water, which gives        the            it
property of melting at a temperature of 100° centigrade, and a
semi-transparency analogous to that of wax.           am strongly in
                                                                I
clined to think that the pearly matter          not dissolved in hot
                                                      is
water, and that          it only divisible in
                              is                            by
                                                     combining with
                                                       it
water.    I  formed my opinion upon 1000 parts of water being
boiled for two hours over one part of matter, without making                           it
disappear.
   18. The mother of pearl substance             less soluble in alcohol
                                                  is
than margarine.       100 grammes of this liquid of           gravity of
                                                                     a
0-S34 only dissolved 31-37 at         temperature of 67° centigrade.
                                         a
This solution becomes turbid upon cooling             and this ought to
                                                            ;
be the case, since one part of mother of pearl matter requires
318 of alcohol to be dissolved at the temperature of 20° centi
grade :   it  does not change the colour of hematine              which      ;
proves   that the  potash       more strongly
                                   is         attracted    by the   mar
garine   than    by
                  the   colouring principle.
   19. When we mix this solution with water, an abundant pre
cipitate  is   formed    : the sediment contains less potash than
pearly matter      this
                     :       demonstrated
                              is                  by
                                                the following experi
ment.     I dissolved in boiling alcohol 4'40 gr. of pearly matter
containing 4-04 gr. of margarine and 0-36 potash.                poured  I
the liquor while .tiil warm into 1-5 litre of water, and shook the
mixture several uirss. In twelve hours        filtered: the liquid eva
                                                 I
porated deposited m inappreciable quantity of pearly matter                                :

fat ty  Substances, and on their Combinal ions with the  Alkalis.  1 99
 it contained 0-052 gr. of potash : consequently, the margarine and
 the alkali of the matter precipitated must have been there in the
 proportion of 100 to 7'fi2. The. analysis which I made with the
 muriatic acid gave me the proportion of 100 to 7 '95, which dif
 fers from the former only by 0-33.      If we take the medium, we
 shall have 7'78, and we shall then fmd that one-eighth of the
 alkali contained in the pearly matter was separated by the water.
     20. The matter which was precipitated from the alcohol by
 the water did not yield a perceptible quantity of alkali to the
 latter ; but if we add a little hematine, a part is then separated.
 This is proved by the two following experiments.         I boiled the
 matter in water, divided the liquid into two equal portions, fil
 tered one of them, and afterwards put hematine into the filtered
 liquor, and also into that which was not filtered.        The former
 makes almost no change on the colouring principle, whereas
 the latter renders it purple by giving alkali to it.    This decom
 position takes place only in consequence of the united action of
  the water and hematine ; for, if we mix the dissolved matters in
  alcohol, the hematine undergoes no change. (18.)
     21. The matter which was precipitated from the alcohol by
  water, redissolved twice in the alcohol, was deposited upon cool
  ing in the state of true mother of pearl matter, which contains
   100 of margarine and 8-88 of potash.
     22. It results from what I have said on the precipitation by
  means of water from the alcoholic solution of mother of pearl
  substance: 1st, that in this precipitation there is a quantity of
  potash separated from the margarine, which seems to be one-
  eighth of that which is combined with it ; that this separation
  is owing to the affinity of water for alcohol and the potash, and
  to the insolubility of the margarine in water.      If boiling water
  takes less alkali from the mother of pearl substance than cold
  water poured into the alcoholic solution of the latter, this seems
  to arise, because in the second case this liquid exercises its ac
 tion on a dissolved body ; whereas in the other it exercises it on
  a solid, the cohesion of which is an obstacle to its solvent power.
  2d, That the matter precipitated from alcohol yields little if any
  alkali to boiling water, but yields it to an aqueous solution of
  hematine.     3dly, That by redissolving it in boiling alcohol, it is
  precipitated in mother of pear^ matter upon cooling.            This
  proves, that in this substance the two elements exist in a pro
  portion in which they enjoy a cohesion sufficient to determine
  the separation of the excess of margarine from which the water
  had taken the alkali.
     23. This last consideration led me to inquire if margarine,
  when presented to a hot solution of potash holding a quantity
  of alkali much more considerable than that which was necessary
                                 N 4                                  to

  200         Chemical Inquiries into the Nature      of several
  to convert it into pearly matter, should be changed into this
  matter, or rather into a more alkaline combination.
      24. I put into 160 gramme? of water holding 24 grammes
   of alcoholized potash, 40 grammes of margarine.            The latter
  became soft by heat, gelatinous, and semi-transparent, by uniting
  with the potash.     The substances put in digestion for six hours,
  at the temperature of 80° or 90° centigrade, were afterwards
  allowed to stand by themselves.         In fifteen hours a white and
  opaque mass was separated from an almost colourless mother
  water.     This liquid supersaturated with sulphuric acid deposited
  a small particle only of margarine, and yielded upon distillation
  neither acetic acid nor volatile oil.
      25. The white mass separated from the mother water was
  pressed between pieces of joseph paper, until no more liquid was
  yielded : it was then white and opaque.         This method appearing
  to me to be insufficient for taking up all the alkali which was
  not in combination with the margarine, I found, after several
  fruitless experiments, that boiling alcohol dissolved the sub
  stance very well, and that upon cooling it was deposited in the
  form of small needles, which it was very 'easy to obtain in a state
  of perfect purity by putting them on a filter, washing them with
I cold alcohol, then squeezing them in joseph paper, and exposing
  them for several hours to the rays of the sun.
     26. Two grammes of these needles, thus treated, decomposed
  by the muriatic acid, gave 1-72 gr. of margarine, and 0-475 gr.
  of muriate of potash,- representing 0-3072 of base.          If we ad
  mit that the excess of weight is owing to water retained by the
  margarine, we shall have the following proportion :
                      Margarine                   100
                      Potash                       18-14
     This result shows that when we unite directly the margarine
  with potash, there is a combination formed which contains twice
. as much alkali as pearly matter ; for we have found this last
  formed of 100 parts margarine, and 8-88 of potash.                 Now
  this quantity multiplied by two, gives 1 7-76 which differs only
  in 0-38 from the foregoing determination.          Margarine therefore
  in these combinations with potash obeys the same laws with the
  inorganic bodies.
      27. The combination of margarine saturated with potash pre
  sents the following properties :
      28. It is white, and not so soft to the touch as the pearly
  matter..    It has a very slight alkaline taste.
      29. When we put it into pure water, it is decomposed into a
  pearly matter and into potash.      We may be convinced of this by
  putting  it  into abundance of cold water, and shaking the mixture
  from time to time.     The matter thrown upon a filter and washed
                                                                  yielded

fatty Substances,          and on their Combinations with the                      Alkalis. 201
yielded margarine 100, and potash 8-55.             The washings when
filtered and evaporated contained potash and a trace of margarine.
If instead of putting the combination of margarine saturated
with alkali in plenty of water, we put it in a small quantity of this
liquid, it swells, becomes semi-transparent by absorbing             and                        it,
forms  a  thick mucilage which exhibits pearly matter when                                        it   is
shaken.       In this case the mass of water not being sufficient to
overcome the whole of the affinity of the pearly matter for an
excess of potash,          happens that the decomposition of the sa
                           it
turated combination            only partial, and
                                is                     the part whichit   js                           is
not altered which absorbs the water, and forms with                muci                it   a
laginous liquid,       by
                        retaining    amongitits molecules.     we  throw           If
the whole upon        filter,
                       a      after having  mixed  enough  of water  with
it   to facilitate the filtration, analysis demonstrates less potash
than in the saturated combination, and more than in the pearly
matter ;    which proves that the decomposition has been but
partial.
   30. When we put three grammes of saturated combination
in 100 grammes of boiling water, we obtain        solution which          a                            is
perfectly limpid while the liquor .is warm, and which even may
be filtered.  This solution upon cooling deposits abundance of
mother of pearl matter, and afterwards becomes thick. When                                            it
                                                                                       -
iscompletely cooled,       precisely like cold water in which we
                                it   is
have put great quantity of pearly combination
            a                                    only the mucilage        :
ismuch more homogeneous.       The filtered ftquor contains potash
and some atoms of margarine       for      not rendered turbid
                                               ;      it       is                                      by
the acids, except when            has been concentrated.
                                     it
    31. It   follows from what has been said:              That the satu      1.
 rated combination of margarine             decomposed     into  mother of
 pearl substance,     and  into  potash,           by is
                                               great  mass aof cold  water                             ;
 2dly, that      little of this liquid only decomposes           part of                              it
                is a
                                                                                   a                   ;
that what        not decomposed absorbs water, and forms               thick                a
semi-transparent mucilage            3dly, that when the action of the
                                          ;
water  is  assisted     by that of caloric, the saturated combination
 may   be completely dissolved, and that           cooling thereby   formed                is
pearly matter, and          athick mucilage of saturated combination,
if  the water be not always in excess.
    32. The saturated combination            dissolved in boiling alcohol,
                                                    is
and partly precipitated upon cooling, without undergoing de
composition.         100 parts of boiling alcohol of      gravity of 0-834 a
appeared to      me    to dissolve only 8-93.    When we dilute this so
lution in water, we obtain pearly matter in the form of very bril
liant small crystals.           the alcohol does not decompose the sa
                                If
turated combination as water does, this              owing to its dissolving
                                                                    is
equally   well   potash     and   margarine    whereas ;  watei1 dissolving
                                                                                                      i     -

202        Chemical Inquiries into the Nature    of several
only one of the elements of the combination, attracts a portion
of the latter with more force than the insoluble element does.
   33. Margarine decomposes the subcarbonatc of potash.           We
may   render   the  decomposition  evident, by passing  into a   tube
full of mercury a mixture of eight parts of water, one of mar
garine, and half a part of subcarbonate, and by heating it after
wards with a red-hot iron to ebullition. After cooling we find
a gaseous residue which is pure carbonic acid.         By repeating
the experiment in a small phial furnished with a curved tube, I
observed that the margarine was dissolved before there was any
extrication of carbonic gas, and that this extrication only took
place when the liquor boiled.       This circumstance induced me
to think that, at the temperature at which margarine may be
united with potash, the carbonic acid which is separated from it
may act upon a portion of subcarbonate, and convert it into sa
turated carbonate, and that it is afterwards the latter which
sends out carbonic acid at the temperature of boiling water.
The combination of margarine formed in this operation gave
me, after having been washed, margarine 100, potash 8-8S; it
was therefore pearly matter.      The liquor from which it was se
parated, filtered several times, presented only some particles of
margarine, although it contained a great excess of alkaline car
bonate.
                 Action of Margarine upon Turnsole.
   34. The strong affinity of margarine for potash having       made
me think that this substance could redden turnsole, I put       three
grammes into the aqueous extract of turnsole : when cold        there
was no action; but when heatedthe margarine became soft,        with
out melting however, and the blue colour became red.           I de
canted the cooled liquor, and boiled several times the solid
matter which was separated from it with new extract of turn
sole.   1 filtered,  and there remained upon the paper red clots
and a blue semi-gelatinous matter, which became partly red
when dried : each of these substances was dissolved by boiling
alcohol : the two solutions were red, and deposited upon cooling
small crystals : those coming from the former yielded margarine
100, potash 7 r,5; those of the latter, margarine 100, and potash
8-45.    As I made these determinations on very small quantities
only, I cannot vouch for their perfect accuracy ; they are suffi
cient at least to establish that margarine takes up the potash
from the colouring principle of turnsole, and that it acts like
the acids.
   35. The affinity of margarine for potash is not only sufficiently
large to determine the formation of the pearly matter at the
expense of the alkali of the turnsole dissolved in water, but it is
                                                                  also

fatty Substances, and   on their Combinations      with the Alkalis. 203
also sufficient for the pearly matter itself dissolved in alcohol
seizing upon its alkali, and being; . converted into the combina
tion of margarine saturated with potash.            If we only obtain
pearly matter instead of this last combination, by boiling mar
garine in the aqueous extract of turnsole, this ought not to be
surprising, if we recollect that the saturated combination is de
composed by water, and consequently it cannot be formed in
the midst of a great mass of this liquid.         This, besides may be
easily demonstrated by pouring water into turnsole which has
been reddened by the alcoholic solution of pearly matter : at the
moment of the mixture, the colour passes to blue, because the
water determines the pearly matter to give up to the colouring
principle of the turnsole the alkali which it had at first taken
from it.
    36. We have shown that margarine possesses a part of the
characters of the- acids; for it neutralizes the alkalinity, and at
tracts the potash with more force than the colouring principles
do when employed as reagents. But are these properties suffi
cient to entitle us to place it. among the acids ? If we had fixed
 the properties which are essential to those bodies, it would be
easy to decide this question ; but as this has not been done, it
 is indispensable, before seeking to resolve     it,
                                                   to examine the most
 general   characters  which  have   been ascribed  to the acids.
     37. These   characters  are six  in number;  viz.      1.sour taste.
                                                                 A
2.    Being capable of being attracted positively       by
                                                         electrified sur
 faces. 3. To neutralize more or less the salifiable bases.         4. To
 redden turnsole.       5. To redden the colour of violets.         6. To
 turn yellow or redden hematine.
     1 . The -sour taste was the first property which served to       di
 stinguish the acids: and this character    is  good; for     belongs to
                                                                 it
 the greater number of those bodies; and, so far as         know, none
                                                             I
 of the substances which are regarded        by chemists as non-acids
possess   it.
   2. If the second character seems common to all the acids,           it
is not exclusive to them; oxygen possesses           par excellence;
                                                       it
and M. Berzelius asserts that sulphur, carbon, and arsenic act
equally towards the surfaces positively electrified.
   3. While the sour taste was the first property assigned to the
acids, at  aperiod when chemistry did not yet exist, so that of
neutralizing more or less the alkalis was one of the first which
was regarded as the chief property, when chemical phaenomena
began to be understood.       was even .supposed that there must
                               It
be an acid principle in several bodies which united with the          al
kalis, and which in other respects differed extremely from the
^cids.
  4. The property of reddening turnsole            has been strongly in
                                                                   sisted

 204        Chemical Inquiries into tfte Nature   of several
 sisted upon ; but this character does not differ essentially from
 the foregoing ; for, the turnsole being a combination of red co
 louring matter and potash, it happens that it is reddened by all
 the bodies whose affinity for alkali is superior to that of the co
 louring matter.    Consequently this reagent announces that the
 body which reddens it is susceptible of being united to potash
 with a greater force than its colouring matter ; it does not there
 fore indicate acidity by itself, it simply establishes a relation of
 attraction between bodies which have affinity for the alkalis.
 The ease is not the same with the indications by the violet co
lour of the hematine : those reagents announce the acidity by a
 change of colour resulting from the combination of the acid with
the colouring principle itself.
    5. Hitherto, the acids only have been supposed to redden the
 colour of violets, but there are some which act differently : thus
 the borie acid and prussic acids do not redden it.. In all proba
bility, it is the same with sulphuretted hydrogen.
    6. The action of the acids on hematine is much more general
 than that which they exercise on the colour of violets ; thus all
 of them make it pass to the yellow or the red, and there is
 scarcely one but sulphuretted hydrogen, which seems to make
 an exception ; it forms with it a combination of a yellow so
slight that it seems to be colourless when it is in a thin layer ;
 and it ought to be added, that almost all the oxides which neu
tralize the acids act with it like the alkalis, with the exception,
however, of the oxide of tin at the maximum, which acts in the
 maimer of an acid.
    38. If we now compare the whole of these characters, we find :
    1 . That the sour taste does not belong to all the acids : con
sequently it has not been regarded as being essential to those
bodies.
    2. That the property of being attracted by surfaces positively
electrified is too general to characterize acidity.
    3. That the case is the same with the neutralization of the
alkalinity ; for those chemists who have been most forcibly
struck with this character have never formally said that it is
sufficient for assigning acidity to. a body which possesses it.    If
some of those chemists have regarded sulphur as an acid, no
person has ever asserted that the'oxides of lead and of zinc were
in the same predicament : nevertheless, in ranking sulphur
among the acids, there was no reason for separating from it the
latter, which belong very evidently to the class of salifiable bases,
since they form salts with the acids, and they react on hematine
in the manner of potash, barytes, &c: hence it follows that
the faculty of neutralizing an alkali does not convey the idea
of acidity.
                                                             4. That

fatty   Substances, and on their Corhlinatioiis with the Alkalis. 205
   4. That although the indication of turnsole has not been ap
preciated at its true value, it is nevertheless this character which
has been most generally employed, and that which chemists
seem unanimously to have adopted by tacit consent ; for none
of the bodies reputed to be acid are deprived of it; and this cha
racter, which differs from the foregoing only in so far as it values
the strength at a given point, has been sufficient to place several
bodies among the acids, and to exclude others from the latter,
because they did not possess it as at first supposed.         I know
but two objections which can be made to this. The first             is,
                                                                 that
there may exist bodies which do not redden turnsole on account
of their cohesion, and which may nevertheless approach closely
to the acids     :the second         is,
                                  that    we have demonstrated that
                                            if
the property of neutralizing the alkalinity does not belong solely
to the acids, we may suppose one of those bodies which, not
having anv other property of acidity, will redden turnsole, be
cause   it will attract its alkali more strongly than    does the co
                                                          it
 louring principle.
    5. That the property of reddening the tincture of violets             is
 not sufficiently common to entitle us to draw any conclusion,
 relative to the bodies which do not possess it.
   6.   That although the indication of the hematine               much
                                                                   is
 more general than the foregoing,              nevertheless difficult to
                                                it   is
 admit      exclusively, because there are acids almost insoluble,
            it
 whose affinity for        so weak that
                          it   is              difficult to approach its
                                                it   is
 action.
     39. To resume our conclusions: We see in the first place, that
 turnsole appears to be adopted            by
                                        all chemists to detect acidity.
 That   if we do not pay some attention to the objections alluded to
 above as to its value, and       we persist in following the principles
                                     if
 which have hitherto been taken as guides in the classification of
 the acids, we shall be compelled to rank margarine among the
 latter ;  since    reddens turnsole, takes up potash from the car
                     it
 bonic acid, and since its combinations with this base have the
 greatest analogy with the salts.           If
                                             be objected that its com
                                                 it
 position removes       too far from the series of the acids, we may
                          it
  cite  asingle example, that of sulphuretted hydrogen, which evi
  dently possesses the characters of acidity, as M. Berthollet has
  proved.    All the chemists, in regarding this body as an acid,
  have, I   believe, established that in the chemical system the
  analogy of properties has been consulted in preference to that
  of composition.     Secondly, that      we refuse to rank margarine
                                            if
  among the acids, we are led to these conclusions        :   . That the
                                                               1
  taste and action of the colouring principles which, undergo
  changes of colour             by
                             their immediate combination with the

206 Chemical Inquiries into the Nature       offalty  Substances.
acids, arc the only characters admissible for ascertaining acidity :
that, in this case, we shall be forced to exclude one or other of
these characters, since the oxide of tin at the maximum, with
out having an acid taste, acts on the hematine in the manner of
an acid.    Finally, that by determining for the colouring princi
ples, we shall be reduced to the employment of hematine only,
since the tincture of violets has an action too limited.    2. That
the indication of turnsole being' absolutely insignificant, we must
submit to a new examination all the bodies which have been
ranked among the acids, from the sole consideration that they
were combined with the bases with sufficient force to redden
turnsole, that it is not doubtful that several of these bodies will
be separated from them.          3. That margarine ought to be
ranked among the fatty substances, without having any regard
to its properties.
    40. After having appreciated the indication of each of the
characters of acidity in particular ; after having demonstrated
that some were too general, while others were too limited ; I
have detailed the consequences to which we are led, according
 as we admit such or such of those characters.        1 have not de
 cided,  because   I have regarded my  individual opinion as of little
importance.     Whatever may be the case, however, it is very re
 markable to see a fatty substance in which hydrogen and car
 bon prevail, possessing in as marked a degree as certain acids,
 one of the most characteristic properties of the latter.  But let it
not be supposed that margarine alone is in this predicament-:
 I have already met with several analogous substances, which I
 shall describe in future papers : and the observation of Messrs.
 Bouillon Lagrange andVogel, that the resins redden turnsole,
 proves that it exists completely formed in vegetables.        These
 facts, therefore, permit me to think that we shall be able to
 make a group of fatty substances, the affinities of which for the
 alkaline bases will be analogous to those of the oxygenated acids,
 and whose combinations will present species of saline compounds
 to which we may give the generic name of soaps, which several
 of them have so long gone under.        This analogy of properties
 which we observe between oxygenated and inflammable bodies
 is well adapted for supporting a principle which had already-
 guided me in my experiments on astringent substances ; namely,
 that an analogy of properties is not always a consequence of
 an analogy of composition.
                                                        XXXIII.    On

                             [   207    ]
XXXIII.      On the Question, Whether Alcohol be a Product of
     Fermentation, or of Distillation P By M. Donovan*. —
     (Read to the Kirwanian Society of Dublin^ May 29, 1813.)
Th e     intoxicating property of fermented liquors has been known
to mankind from the remotest ages of antiquity. For a series
of centuries nothing of their nature was regarded further than
their agreeable taste and exhilarating effects : and of the person
who first separated alcohol from them, nothing at this distance
of time can be certainly known.         When, however, alcohol had
been obtained, it was discovered that it possessed an intoxicat
ing power in a greater degree than the original liquor ; and that
the residuum of the operation no longer produced even exhilara
tion. Hence, by a simple and natural process of reasoning, it
was inferred that alcohol is the true intoxicating portion, and
that fermented liquors owe their influence entirely to its pre
sence.     Accordingly, we find this opinion to have been received
without alteration until the days of Rouelle the elder. This
philosopher, observing that, in the distillation of wine, no spirit
appears until the temperature is raised to boiling, suggested
that alcohol does not exist in wine completely formed, and that
it does not assume a distinct existence until a sufficiently high
temperature be applied.       In support of this opinion he adduced
no Other evidence ; and the suggestion, although admitted by
 some, perhaps without much examination, seemed to have ob
 tained no particular attention until in 1785 it was revived and
 somewhat new-modelled by Fabroni, a Florentine philosopher.
 In a memoir which obtained the prize from the Academy of
 Florence, Fabroui asserted that chemists had been much de
 ceived in supposing that alcohol is a product of fermentation.
 He stated that when he added a small quantity of alcohol to
 new wine, he could by saturation with potash separate precisely
 the quantity added, and no more ; while, when the experiment
 wis made with new wine, to which no aicohol had been pre
 viously added, not a trace of the latter could be perceived, al
 though by distillation 25 per cent, might be obtained.          Hence
 he thought he had a right to conclude, that alcohol is not- con
 tained in wine ; that it is formed from the elements of wine
 by the operation of fire : in a word, that it is a product and
 not an educt of distillation. In further support of this opinion
 he stated, that when wine is distilled, and when the distilled
  liquor is mixed with the residue, wine is not reproduced.          He
  allowed that a little alcohol may be    found in   old wines ; but he
  accounted for this by supposing that lapse of time and the na-
                     * Communicated   by the Author.
                                                                   tural

208         On the Question, Whether Alcohol                 he   a Product
tural heat of climate had formed it in the liquor                  :   for, according
to his experiments,        a heat not      exceeding 14° Reaumur    (64) is
sufficient totally to volatilize the spirit *. These opinions seem
to have gained but little confidence amongst modern chemists :
a kind of mean seems to have been adopted.             Chaptal considers
the alcohol as formed, not insulated, but in combination with
colouring and extractive matter f. Berthollet states his opinion
in a- manner less precise; he considers wine as an uniform com
pound, in which the properties of hydrogen are predominant ;
the alcohol consequently not existing in the insulated state %.
Fourcroy allowed that without doubt alcohol is not contained
exactly and purely in wine with all its properties, and under the
same form as it is obtained by art : but he looks upon Fabroni's
experiments as quite insufficient to prove their object ; and ob
serves that it is difficult to conceive how alcohol, which, accord
ing to Lavoisier, is reduced to vapour at 64° Reaumur (176),
should in Fabroni's trials be volatilized at 14 §.
    No experimental objections of any importance were offered
to Fabroni's opinions until lately, when Mr. Brande published a
paper on the subject        ||. Fabroni, when he failed in separating
alcohol from wine by means of subcarbonate of potash, affirmed
that none was present.          Mr. Brande shows clearly, that this                 is
no proof; for when he distilled so much as three ounces of
strong spirit from     apint of wine, and mixed the distilled liquor
with the residue, he was not able to separate a particle of spirit
 by  subcarbonate of potash . the latter combining with Some of
                                   ;
the ingredients of the wine, 'and the whole assuming the form of a
gelatinous compound.          Fabroni asserted that                by
                                                             subcarbonate
of potash    he could separate         hundredth
                                       a            part  of  alcohol pur
posely added to wine.              must, as Mr. Murray remarks, be
                                  It
considered rather singular, that this portion should be separated
without loss from      afluid in which          dissolved.
                                                it   is        Mr. Brande
has shown that such        aseparation   does  not   take  place    and so  ;
far     Fabroni's result from coinciding with Mr. Brande's, that
       is
not until two ounces of alcohol (825) were mixed with six of
wine, could he obtain       a stratum      of
                                          the former swimming on the
surface of the alkaline solution.       So far Mr. Brande's refutation
of Fabroni's opinions was complete               ;was ^proved that the
                                                      it
grounds   for objection    to  the  common    opinion were insufficient             :
but     remained to be proved that the opposise opinion was un
       it
true.
    The latter question Mr. Brande made some experiments to
decide. His method was, to distil quantities-of wine at different
 *     Annales de Chbnie, tome xxxi. p. 304.                t   Phil. Mag. vol. ix.
 t     Chem. Stat. vol. ii. p. 427.    §Annates       de   Chimie, tome xxxi. p. 322.
  ||   Ehil. Transact. 1811, p   33T.
                                                                        temperatures,

                       of Fermentation,   or   of Distillation.            209
temperatures, from the lowest adequate degree to the highest that
the operation would permit. Were the alcohol a product, and not
an educt, he conceived that in these trials the quantity obtained
would vary with the temperature : but since the quantities were
equal, he conceived the converse proposition to be true.
   It appears to me, if we suppose the decomposition of the wine
to take place at the lowest degree which Mr. Brande tried, that
the quantity of spirit produced should be the same at any higher
temperature*.
   With regard to this question, there seems to have been a
strange confusion in the opinions of Fabroni.          He tells us that
14* (64) is sufficient to distil off, and consequently to form the
spirit ; yet he considers that spirit does not exist ready formed
in fermented liquors.        In the brewing of common ale, the wort
is mixed w<th yeast at 55°: the temperature rises to 70, often
higher. Wash receives the yeast at 60 ; the heat rises to 90,
and frequently to 100°. In the wine countries, must is set to
ferment at 68°, and a much higher temperature succeeds.               In
all these cases the heat is much above that at which Fabroni
considers alcohol to be produced ; so that it is not clear how
he infers alcohol to be only a product of distillation.        The fol
lowing passage extracted from his own writings seems to throw
no light on the subject: for my own part, I do not fully com
prehend its meaning :           "
                               la chaleur necessaire a cet effet ne doit
pas   6tre considerable ; car il s-en forme par la chaleur de la fer
mentation, a. une chaleur de distillation de 14 degres."
    It has been supposed by many, that during the fermentation
 of liquors the evolved carbonic acid carries off with it some
 vapour of alcohol.      If this were the case, I thought it sufficient
 proof   that  alcohol  must     be formed during fermentation.      To
 ascertain   it,
               I  set a vessel of wash to ferment, and contrived the
 apparatus so that the carbonic acid was forced to pass through
 some ounces of water under tolerable pressure.             The process
 continued for six days, and the gas which passed through the
 water was in considerable quantity.         This water when distilled,
 and the product also several times distilled, manifested no signs
 of containing alcohol so that,
                            :             any were produced,
                                          if                      was so
                                                                  it
 minute as to escape detection.
  I   was the more surprised at this result, asChaptal had satisfied
 himself that alcohol        carried off from fermented liquors.
                             is                                       He
 exposed    water  to the gas arising from a fermenting    tun   he
                                                                  : then
 setit   by for month
                   a        ;and at the end of that time found      con-
                                                                      it
   * Since the above was written, Mr. Brande lias himself stated this very
objection, and lias instituted new experiments on the subject, w hich shall
be adverted to in proper place.
   Vol.44. No. 197. Sept. 1814.                        O               tained

210       On the Question,  Whether Alcohol      he a Product
tained vinegar, — a proof he conceives that alcohol and extractive
had been carried off from the tan.
    May not the vinegar have been formed from a portion of ve
getable matter dissolved in the carbonic acid, which the water
had imbibed, and which by dilution and other causes had passed
at once into the acetous fermentation ? The supposition receives
countenance from a fact which I observed, namely, that the wa
ter exposed to the gas has always the disagreeable smell of the
'wash.
    It is well known   to distillers, that a dense solution of sugar
will after  a successful fermentation    become much lighter than
water.     Without allowing that the diminution of specific gravity
is owing to the formation of alcohol, it will not be easy to account-
for this fact.   I have obtained this result even by operating on
 a few pounds of sugar.
    Wash after a complete fermentation will be found capable of
becoming coloured by digestion on raspings of the Ptcrocarpm
sanlalinus, a wood which (as is well known) imparts no colour to
 water, but readily to spirit.
    The attraction is so strong, and the mixture so uniform and
 intimate, between the alcohol and the other ingredients of fer
mented liquors, that it is not easy to detach the former at once :
yet the attraction will be considerably weakened by sub carbo
 nate of potash.     I mixed a few ounces of wash fermented at
 56° with more of this salt than it could dissolve : the mixture
 was made in a glass cylinder of which two-thirds remained
 empty.    When the vessel was strongly agitated, the stopper
 taken out, and a burning taper introduced, a blue flame de
 scended to the surface of the liquor, precisely similar to the
 burning vapour of alcohol.
     There were now strong presumptions that alcohol was really
 present in the fermented liquor.      If it could be obtained in the
 insulated form without employing heat, it appeared to me that
 the question was at an end.
     The opinion of Fabroni was, that at and much below the
 boiling point the wine is decomposed, producing alcohol by a
 new combination of its elements : so low a temperature as 64*
 he supposed to be sufficient.      To make an experiment as unex
 ceptionable as possible, I dissolved 36 troy ounces in 144 of
 water, and to this while at 60° I added six ounces of active yeast.
  I observed narrowly the commencement of fermentation ; and
 when this took place, the vessel was immersed in cold water,
 which caused the temperature to sink to 56". The process con
 tinued for ten days, during which the heat never rose beyond 57°.
 The fermentation being over, a small quantity of the wash was
 mixed with as much subcarbonate of potash as it could dissolve.
                                                                 The

                 of Fermentation,  or of Distillation.           211
    The difficulty was to distil the alcohol off from this alkaline
 solution at a lower temperature than that at which it was sup
 posed to be formed.     In a rare medium the alcohol would as
 sume the gaseous state : but the cause which first volatilized it
 would continue it in the state of vapour.      The necessity of in
 tense cold on one part of the apparatus became therefore evi
 dent.   The following arrangement I found to answer the pur
 pose perfectly.
    A retort was selected with a long beak, on the middle of
 which was blown a globe ; so that a fluid distilling from this
 retort would be detained in the globe without passing out of the
 beak.    The beak, by a proper arrangement of caps and stop
 cocks, was connected with a capacious glass sphere.       The wash,
 which had been saturated with alkali, was passed through a long
 funnel into the belly of the retort.   The large sphere was then
 exhausted by a good air pump, and screwed to the retort.        The
 cocks were opened, then shut, the sphere was again exhausted,
 and again screwed to the retort.     Round the small globe on the
 beak a freezing mixture was confined by means of a tin vessel
 closely cemented to the glass. The cocks being opened, the
 liquor began to boil, and striae of alcohol began to appear on
 the naked part of the neck which was kept cool by ether. After
 tome time the sphere was again exhausted, and by peculiar
 management a quantity of alcohol (small indeed) was produced,
 which proved to be exceedingly strong and highly inflammable.
 In the whole of the process the alkaline wash never rose be
 yond 56.
    These experiments I considered sufficient, and I thought I
 was entitled to draw up the following conclusion :    " that alcohol
 is a product of fermentation, that it exists ready formed and
 perfect in fermented liquors, that it exists in them in a state of
 very loose combination with water and vegetable matter."
                            Addendum.
    The foregoing was read to the Kirwanian Society, May 19,
  1813: the paper was in a somewhat less condensed form, and con
 tained other experiments and arguments, which being of minor
 importance are here suppressed. Since that time Mr. Brands
 has published a paper, in which he states, that if the extractive
 colouring matter be precipitated from wine by subacetate of
iead, the remaining colourless liquor will easily afford a stratum
 of alcohol, when saturated with subcarbonate of potash. Gay-
 Lussac ascertained the same fact by means of litharge ; and
 found that by distilling wine in a vacuum at the temperature of
 66° an alcoholic fluid was obtained.     Those who still maintain
                                O 2                               the

212                 Summary Ideas on the Probabilities
the opinion of Fabroni might perhaps consider these experiments'
as not free from objection, on the following accounts :
     The Florentine philosopher ascertained that by an exceedingly
tedious distillation of wine, the alcohol could be drawn off, and
consequently formed, by so low a temperature as 63.                He even
allowed that alcohol absolutely existed in old wines, formed a?
he supposes by lapse of time.          In the experiments of Mr. Brande
and of M. Gay-Lussac wine was employed which must have
suffered a much higher temperature than 63 : and in all proba
bility is was very old.        M. Gay-Lussac, as appears by the very
short notice given in the Annates de Chimie, distilled the wine
in vacuo at 66, which is even higher than the degree which
Fabroni stages as sufficient to form the alcohol, and at which he
distilled it off.     In my experiments the heat was never suffered
to rise beyond 57 : by which means I conceived that I had avoided
the foregoing grounds of objection.           On this account I thought
fit to publish the paper ; believing that, as it afforded some ad
ditional evidence, it would not be looked on as superfluous.
     The coincidence between my experiments and those of M. Gay-
Lussac is striking: both selected the same subject of inquiry,
both were employed in it at the same time, both happened nearly
upon the same manner of conducting the investigation, and
both drew the same conclusions*.             M. Gay-Lussac had, how
ever, read his memoir to the Institute two months before I read
mine to the Kirwanian Society: but the first notice of his was
given in the Annates de Chimie, which was not published until
some time after I had given an abstract in the Philosophical
 Magazine ; so that I could have had no knowledge of what had
been done before me.
 XXXIV.        Summary     Ideas on the Probabilities     of the Origin of
                   Aerolites.     By   Akmand     SEGUiNf.
 Very       few, if any, persons have seen stones fall from the at
 mosphere, and yet the fact is incontestable.        The exact analysis of
 these stones made by eminent chemists ; the nature and identity
 sufficiently constant and regular of their principles, which we
 do not usually meet with in the places where they are found,
 would be sufficient of themselves to give to the existence of this
 phaenoraenon a degree of probability very near the truth : but
     * In the translation o f
                              Gay -Lussac's memoir, Phil. Mag. vol. xliii. 193,
  line 15, the word" not," which materially influences the sense, is an error
  ef the press: it ought to be cancelled.
     f Annates de Chimie, tome l«iviii. p. 26$,
                                                                           the

                          of the Origin of Aerolites.               2.13
  the origin of these stones, and the cause of their fall, are not yet
 Tcnown ;     hitherto conjectures only have been formed on the sub
 ject. Some distinguished men of science have demonstrated
  that it might be possible that they came to us from the moon,
  or some other celestial body.      But as we are far from having
  exhausted all the orders of possibilities, and all of them equally
  admissible, it will only be when we shall have accumulated hy
  potheses that we may, in the absence of irrefragable demon
  stration, found an opinion upon the order of possibility which
  shall be the least repugnant to our ideas and to our knowledge.
  It is with this view that I shall collect under one point of view,
  the observations upon which we may found another probability,
  however unreasonable it may be considered by some, as to the
  formation of aerolites in our atmosphere.
      The nature of the atmospheric air is well known : it can dis
 solve more or less water ; and the more it dissolves, the lighter
 it becomes specifically; which establishes a continual circulation
 in the atmosphere. It also serves as a vehicle for many sub
 stances.
  -   It is thus that smells, the nature of which is still a problem,
 are disseminated through the air.       Are they merely mixed with
 the air ? or, are they dissolved bv air, by water, by the essential
 oils, or, finally, by other fluids ? Of all this we are ignorant; but
 it is clear that on no occasion is the transparency of the air dis
 turbed.
     The same questions and observations apply to the oil and
 essence of turpentine, the effects of which are so pronounced,
 that by simple respiration they give the urine a very charac
teristic smell, and terminate even by producing asphyxia.
     Every person knows that by sleeping in newly painted rooms
 colics are experienced, from the action of the lead on the in
terior of our system. Is this lead in the state of metal, oxide
 or salt ? Is it dissolved in the air, or is it merely mixed with it?
 In the first supposition, is it dissolved, either by the immediate
principles of the air, by the water which it holds in solution, or
by other fluids, and particularly essential oil ? On this point
there is no kind of data, but it is always certain that this lead
is carried through the air even to great distances.
' Mercury, a metal still heavier, presents a similar phaenomenon.
When a person remains some time in a sick room, salivation
comes on, and any gold which he may have upon his person is
whitened, even without his having any contact with the patient.
     If we place on a table a glass half full of a solution of muriate
of soda, we find in a short time, not only the exterior of the
glass, but also a great part of the surface of-the table, covered
                                   O 3                            with

214                      On the Origin     of Aerolites.
-with salt.     The salts may therefore be carried by tire atmo
 spheric air to certain distances.
     In the atmosphere there are frequently miasmata which do
 not disturb its transparency, and on which our best eudiometers
 have no effect.      The experiments which I made with M. La
 voisier in the Salpetriere prove this fact beyond all doubt.     We
 took air    in  a low  room,   where  two   hundred   women    were
 in bed, the windows of which had been shut for six hours :
 we compared    it,  by means of the most accurate eudiometers, with
 air collected externally, and we found only the same principles         ;
 and yet the smell of the apartment was so infected, that in very-   a
 few seconds M. Lavoisier fainted, and the women threatened to
 break the doors and windows          they were longer subjected to
                                      if
  the disagreeable sensations which they experienced.
      May not the small-pox and great many contagious diseases,
                                      a
 Such as the marsh fever, and the fevers resulting from the pits
  in which flax has been steeped, be propagated            by
                                                      simple respira
 tion  ?   Here we have another kind of substances, which may be
  either dissolved, or mixed with the air and carried           by
                                                               to di
                                                                 it
  stances which can only be limited by the decomposition or              al
  teration which the substances thus transported undergo.
    If     aperson remains habitually in      close and damp place
                                                    a
 'filled with newly printed paper, mortal disease will be the conse
                                      a
 quence.
     We might also cite those showers of insects which probably
 ire  brought   by the winds, which have either taken up the insects
 themselves or their eggs     ;the showers of corn which we are as
 sured have fallen in Spain      whirlwinds and waterspouts, which
                                  ;
 frequently carry with them heavy bodies to great heights.
     Bats, foxes, civet-cats, bugs, and various other animals, have
a   peculiar smell, so strong that        too easy to perceive when
                                          it   is
 they are near at hand.
     Dogs not only discover animals         the scent, but even their
                                                by
 masters.
     In short, it    evident that the combustible bodies, the metals,
                    is
 the metallic, alkaline or earthy salts, essential oils, gases, with
 animal and vegetable matter in general, may be either dissolved
 in or mixed with the atmospheric air.                     ,
     We may therefore, by analogy, suppose that the substances
  generally found in aerolites may be in the same way either dis
  solved or suspended in the atmospheric air, in their natural
  state, the state of oxidation, or the state of salt, and carried
  to   a  certain height, either on account of their specific gra
 vity in this state of solution or suspension, or on account of
 a    first impulse, such a» the eruption from a volcano, and

            On the Anatomy and Physiology       of the Brain.     215
there remain suspended from being dissolved in water, air or
other fluids, and consequently from the obstacle thus presented
to their fall by the lower part of the atmosphere, in the same
way as the clouds, which, although specifically heavier than the.
air, nevertheless keep suspended in it without being dissolved.
    But supposing for an instant the dissemination in the upper
parts of the atmosphere of the principles of aerolites, how, it
may be asked, can these principles so disseminated, and proba
bly in minute division, be united, and form masses so considerable
as those which are said to have fallen ?
    This question is doubtless of most difficult solution: we may,
however, hazard a probable answer.
    In fact, it is agreed on all hands, that the fall of aerolites
takes place in storms, and particularly after explosions of thun
der.
    On the other hand, M. Monge, in his excellent memoir on
Meteorology, has supposed with great probability that the noise
of thunder was owing to the vacuum produced by a cause not
yet ascertained, and immediately filled up by the strata of sur
rounding air.
    It is not impossible, therefore, that the constituent principles
of aerolites, being transported by chemical or mechanical means
into the upper regions of the atmosphere, where the vacuum is
produced which occasions the noise of thunder, there remain
suspended by causes to which I have already alluded, until this
vacuum is produced ; and then these principles, although dis
seminated, being pressed by the external strata which fill the
vacuum, unite, conglomerate, and form a mass, the more consi
derable in proportion to the quantity which it meets with in
 this place.                                                  x
XXXV. Of        the Anatomy and Physiology of the Brain and
   Nervous System, as taught by Drs. Gall und Si'urzheim*.
All      improvements in natural history, and particularly in the
natural history of man, are interesting, and deserve to be recorded
and published, in order to enable society in general to avail
themselves of the labours of those ingenious and persevering in
dividuals to whom the investigation of nature is a passion, and
the discovery of truth a sufficient reward for their undertakings.
Viewing in this light the important discoveries relative to the
anatomy and physiology of the brain, recently made by Gall
and Spurzheim, it seems expedient to communicate a short ac-
                        * From a
                                 Correspondent.
                                 04                             count

216        On the Anatomy and Physiology        of the Brain.
count of it. for the benefit of a numerous class of readers in Eng
land, who only know what is going on in the capital through
the medium of the periodical journals ; and to enable those
who have time, and who are themselves organized for such in
vestigations, to labour in the same wide and fertile field of in
quiry, and by their cooperation to contribute to the advance
ment of this useful science.
   Few anatomists there are, I believe, who will not be ready to
acknowledge the imperfect state of our knowledge of the minute
anatomy of the brain, before the time of Gall and Spurzheim's
dissections.   The manner too in which anatomists dissected (or
rather sliced) that organ, was ill calculated to lead to any useful
and satisfactory results as to its component organs.         Drs. Gall
and Spurzheim, by a method of dissection entirely new, have
traced the various nerves to their origins, have shown the ana
tomy of the brain and its several organs, and pointed out the
best method for future discoveries. As we hope to give a more
particular account of the anatomy in our next, we must content
ourselves with giving a short detail of the proceedings of Dr.
Spurzheim with respect to the physiology of the brain, and the
organs of the mind's manifestations, &c.        Since the last account
we gave in our number for June, the Doctor has finished his
lectures on the science.    They were attended by numerous medi
cal persons of the first respectability, and gave great satisfaction.
He has also examined many schools, and pointed out the peculiar
dispositions of the different boys, merely by the examination of
the shapes of their heads, in a manner which has quite astonished
the schoolmasters and others who knew their faculties and dis
positions. One principal part of Dr. Spurzheim's last lecture
was to state the mimic, or expression which the action of the
different organs gave to the features and muscles.        In this part
of the course he pointed out wherein Lavater was correct, and
in what respect deficient.      Dr. S. resumes his lectures on the
 18th of October, at seven in the evening.           He has collected
many    thousand  skulls of persons  of different characters of mind,
and moulded many busts to illustrate by example his peculiar
 doctrines. In the conclusion of this short sketch, which we hope
in our next will be extended into a more systematic account, we
 must observe, that some of the warmest and most able opposers
 of this theory have now become its advocates.
                                                        XXXVI.     Oh-

                                  [    217   3
 XXXVI.       Observations on the Fall of Stones from the Clouds,
            or Aerolites.     By M. Marcel dk Serres*.
 The      phaenomenon of the falling of stones is in itself so singular,
 that we ought not to be astonished that, although observed by
 a great member of intelligent menf, it was long doubtful whether
 such an event ever took place.           The ancients, much more cre
 dulous than the moderns, have almost all admitted the fall of
 aerolites ; but when various terrestrial phaenomena began to be
 accounted for, their existence was entirely denied, because it
was impossible to explain their formation.
     The first among the moderns who discussed the origin of
aerolites and proved their existence, was Albert Groot, or Albert
the Great, whose numerous writings fill nearly twenty-two
volumes in folio \.       But from that period to the time of Chladni,
l. e.  from  the thirteenth century to the present time, naturalists
 have paid very little attention to this phaenomenon.                   The
reality, however, of the occurrence could not be denied, and since
 it has been admitted, numerous writings have demonstrated that
the ancients had left us many testimonies on the subject.                  If
the writers who have turned their attention to such inquiries
have exhausted the subject so far as erudition is concerned, it
would seem at least that they have not been acquainted with
the various opinions hazarded lately to account for the formation
of aerolites.      Several German writers have in fact adopted an
hypothesis on the subject of these meteors, of which the French.
 authors have taken no notice, either because the German lan
guage is but little understood among us, or because the writings
 in which this hypothesis is mentioned have not come to their
 knowledge.       The present observations are therefore intended to
supply this omission ; and while upon the subject of the hypo
thesis admitted by certain German writers, we ought not to re
frain from saying a few words as to the Wbrk recently published
by M. Bigot de Morogues on the same subject.
     We may refer to three principal hypotheses all those which
liave been hazarded on the subject of aerolites. Some persons as
sign an extra-atmospheric          origin ; while others consider them, on
the contrary, as formed in our atmosphere. Finally, there are who
    * Annates  de Chimie, touie Ixxxv. p. 262.
    t Pliny speaks  of stones fallen from the clouds, as if he had seen them
 himself.   Ego ipse vidi in Vocontioaum agro panto ante delutum. Lib. ii.
 cap. CO.
    % Albert Groot,   bom at Lawingen in Suabia in 1205, was Bishop of
Ratisbon, and cultivated the sciences with great success.      His History of
Animals is remarkable, for the times in which he lived, although the basis
of this work was borrowed from Aristotie and his commentators, particu
larly Avicenna.
                                                                       think

   218             Observations on the  Fall of Stones
   think that aerolites had a terrestrial origin. But all these ex
   planations must still be subdivided, according as we refer the
   formation of the aerolites to this or that cause. Thus, we find
  among those who have assigned an extra-atmospheric         origin to
  these stoues   :
       1. That some, with Pliny, make them come from the sun,
  since, according to them, they have a black colour, or look as
  if burnt, colore adusto.
      2. That others, with Chladni, regard them as small isolated
   planets, or rather, with M. Lagrange, as fragments of small
   planets.
      3. Lastly, that the rest, with the illustrious author of the
   Mecanique Celeste, consider them as bodies darted from the
  monn, — an opinion adopted by most English writers.
      Those, on the contrary, who have assigned an atmospheric
  origin to them, have thought,
      1. That they were produced in our atmosphere by the com
  bustion of inflammable gases, which hold suspended or dissolved
  metallic and earthy particles.
      2. Or that they have been produced in the same way as metals
  or earths are formed in plants, as the experiments of Schroeder
   and Crell have proved.    These naturalists observed, that causing
  plants to vegetate in sulphur and charcoal, the metals or the
  earths which are generally found in these substances were formed
  by the act of vegetation.
      As to those who have ascribed a terrestrial origin to aerolites,
  some have admitted that these substances preexisted in the places
  where they were found, and had been merely affected by the
  lightning: others, that they come from volcanos, and that they
  were a species of lava.
      The opinion which tends to regard aerolites as formed by
  new combinations operated in the atmosphere by the contact
  of all the bodies incessantly carried up by evaporation, is as yet
  so little known, that it is the only one with which we shall now
  concern ourselves.
      The authors of this hypothesis have in the first place observed,
  that the fall of aerolites does not appear to have taken place
  equally at all seasons ; for in sixty-five or seventy of these falls,
  the epoch of which is well known, nearly two-thirds have hap
  pened in the months of June, July, and August.          Lastly, they
  also prove that in all the winter months the falls of stones have
  been less frequent than in a single month of summer.
.     The same observation, which demonstrates the influence of
  the seasons on aerolites, applies equally to the different times of
  the day: thus, from a catalogue drawn up with great care, of
  all the falls of meteoric stones hitherto known, seven only fell
                                                              between

                  from the Clouds, or Aerolites,                  219
between midnight and noon, and still these stones were only
precipitated at the more advanced hours of the morning, i. e. be
 tween eight and eleven o-clock.           On one occasion only, thi»
 phaenomenon      was  observed   between   eleven o'clock in the even
ing and six in the morning, whereas we have evidence of thirty-
 six falls between noon and midnight, and still the greater part
 took place between three o'clock in the afternoon and sunset.
     The geographical situation of the places where stones have
 hitherto, fallen, is by no means a subject of indifference to these
 observers.     It seems, in fact, that the number of these meteors
 decreases with the distance from any place to the equator : thus,
 none have been as yet seen in Sweden or Denmark, and it has
 only been in the south part of Russia that four have been found ;
 and lastly, six only have been witnessed in England.          The num
 ber of aerolites has on the other hand been very great in Italy,
 France, and Germany.
      The weather seems to have a certain influence over the fall of
  stones ; for we have heard of none which have taken place in
  cloudy weather, during a great rain, or abundant snow, or,
  lastly, during a high wind, particularly when it was northerly,
  north-east or easterly.      Of forty-three falls of stones, the wea
  ther during which was noticed, twenty-nine happened in warm
  and serene weather, and the thirtieth and thirty-first were mani
  fested while the sky presented some scattered and insulated,
  clouds.     The remaining twelve were accompanied by very vio
  lent storms of rain and hail, such as the falls of aerolites in
   1103, 1249, and 1552.        The pressure of the atmosphere seems
  also to diminish before or after the fall. This was observed in
   1806 at Alais, at Stannern in Moravia in 1808, and at Mai ir-
  kirchen in Bavaria in 1811, when the sky was cloudy a little
   before and after the meteor.
      After having shown the circumstances which accompany tl le
   fall of aerolites, the authors of the theory in question procet d
   to discuss their origin. Out of twenty-nine falls of stones whic h
  took place in serene weather, twenty seemed to issue from a
   very extensive but round cloud, black or variable in colour ac- -
   cording to the colour of the stones themselves : thus, the clout 1
   was white in the fall which took place at Burgos, and the stones ;
   were also white.     At all times the cloud seems essential to thost :
   meteors, for from it proceeds the noise which accompanies or
   which precedes the fall of aerolites; and from       it,    the stones
   proceed.     The extent of these meteors    is    not less in general
   than from half to    a  whole league in diameter,   a    size very dif
   ferent from that of the stones themselves, the mass of which isa
   frequently of very small dimensions.         We cannot account for*
   this difference,by   admitting that the vapours of the atmospheres
                                                                   giveJ

     220          Observations on the   Fall of Stones
  give such an extent to the meteor ; for then the meteor must be
  composed of the metallic mass, and of the vapours which it
  drags with it ; whereas the form of this metallic mass is always
  more or less round and circumscribed.             It must, therefore, be
  supposed    that  the  greater  part   of these globes  is not composed
  of metallic parts solely, while they pass through the air, but of
  inflammable parts which are consumed during the rapid course
  of those globes.
      This seems also proved by the luminous phaenomena which
  accompany these meteors, for they are not the same with those
  produced by incandescent metallic bodies.             The colour of the
  flame is, in fact, white, like that of camphor or phosphorus in a
  state of ignition.     In the aerolites of Connecticut or Weston in
  America, which fell in 1807, the light precisely followed the path
  of the eruptions ; it was extinguished with every eruption, to re
  appear with the one succeeding.          If,    as some observers have
  asserted, the light was the consequence of the incandescent state
  of the aerolite occasioned       by  the rapidity of its fall, then this
  state of incandescence must increase with the time occupied            by
  the fall but the case
              :          is  almost always different, and several stones
  observed in the air are extinguished before -reaching the ground.
  The form of these meteors, besides, agrees with this opinion for   ;
    it  not always the same
         is                   :    thus, the stone which fell in England
  on the 18th of August 1783 sometimes affected a round form,
  and sometimes an elongated one. The remarkable effervescence
  which has even been observed in several of these aerolites, seems
'also to prove that there         is no question in the case either of   a
 metallic consistence, or of simple vapours which surround the
 nucleus, because the edges are always very distinct, and are not
 insensibly lost.      In short,  if,  in spite of all appearances, the
 greater part of this description of meteors        is   to be ascribed to
 va pours, we should nevertheless be puzzled to account for their
 or igin, since aerolites are almost uniformly composed of earthy
 arid metallic parts, which can scarcely be vaporized at the tem
     mature of our atmosphere.
    pi
        parabolic orbit
         A              is   generally assigned to aerolites, but the
    ngle formed   by  the parabola with the horizon      is not always the
s a
    ame.    In fact, there fell in France in 783, stone which formed
                                          1       a
a  .n almost horizontal hole, and that of Stannern made a cavity of
(.wo feet diameter and two inches in depth only.             Other stones,
Hike that which fell in 1810 at Orleans, or that which was ob-
-
 served in Calabria in the year 1755, constantly preserved in
 their fall a direction almost perpendicular.         These facts seem to
 indicate, that besides gravity there must also be another force,
 which opposed to the direction given       by    the weight may modify
 their orbit.      We have    a   new proof of this in the aerolite of
                                                              Connecticut,

                                                        s
                     from the Clouds, or Aerolites.               221
Connecticut, which before being extinguished, and after having
thrice made an explosion, rebounded as many times from the
ground, and consequently took a direction completely opposite
to that given by the law of gravity.
    As to the velocity of aerolites, it seems in general to be very
great : frequently it equals or surpasses even that of the earth ;
but in all cases it is much more accelerated than a simple fall.
Thus, after a great many observations, it is completely uniform,
without increasing with the time taken up by the progress of
these stones through the air.
    The duration of this phaenomenon seems also to present great
differences ; thus, it varies from a quarter of a second to a few
minutes : it is also very singular, that the loud noise similar to
discharges of cannon, which generally accompanies the fall of
aerolites, lasted in the explosion which took place in Russia in
 1787 four whole hours, i. e. from one o'clock until five, before
the stones fell.      It was also observed in 1200, before the fall of
stones which happened near Abdona in Italy, that the cloud
from which the stones issued as if completely inflamed, remained
visible about two hours.
    We may also consider it as a new proof, that besides the gravity,
there is a force which influences the direction of aerolites, when
we reflect on the little depth to which they sink in the ground.
 For a long time it has been observed, that, left to their
proper weight, these stones would naturally enter very deep into
 the ground, if the moon was their point of departure, and if their
 velocity was in the ratio of their volume or mass.      Nevertheless
 this was far from being the case in the fall of stones which took
 place in 1768 in the Maine, and in Gascony in 1790: several fell
 with little celerity, others very slowly, others more quickly, and
 others with such rapidity that they hissed violently in passing
 through the air, and without their difference of velocity having
 the least reference to their weight.     Latterly, one of the stones
 which fell at Thoulouse in 1812, of the same density as the
 others, had touched the ground so lightly that it scarcely left
 a mark.       Other stones which fell at Agen did not break the
 roofs of the houses on which they fell ; which was also observed
 of those that fell in 1753 near Tabor in Bohemia.
     It is not less remarkable to find that the great and small stones
  do not fall together, but that at the end of the orbit the smallest
 are precipitated, and the latter become greater in proportion as
  they approach the other extremity of the orbit. This was ob
  served in the meteor of Stannern, which, by being directed from
  east to west, precipitated stones which became larger as it ad
 vanced.      The meteor of Aigle, as described by Fourcroy, and of
 several other places, presented the same phaenomenon also. '

222              Observaiions on the     Fall of Stones
     When we examine the cohesion of atmospheric stones, we find
{hat  it is not the same before and after their fall. A great num
ber of these stones are in such a soft state that they are often
flattened on touching the ground, and those which fell in 1 768,
1753, and 1808, &c. furnish a proof of this.       The case has
been the same with others which have been observed in a state
of fusion and fluidity; like those which fell in 1731 at Lessay
near Coutances, and finally those collected in Poland in the year
 1796.   To conclude : all these stones became solid, and even
compact, some time after their fall. This state of softness which
aerolites often present agrees very well with their form, which
is almost always that of an obtuse triangle, or an oval flattened
on the lower side, a form which every body must present which
falls from a considerable height, if it does not possess great
solidity.
    As to the temperature of the aerolites, it is rarely like that of
the air : in general it is that of boiling water, since where they
fall in a certain state of softness they adhere to sheaves of
straw, or other combustible substances, without setting fire to
them.
    It has been asserted, since a certain number of aerolites has
been analysed, that their elements were always nearly the same;
but have all their constituent parts been minutely examined ?
For instance, has any account been given of the brown gluey
matter, similar to a varnish, which covered the stones of Benares,
as well as those which fell in 1775, and, finally, which was dis
covered on the -aerolites which fell at Valence in 1 806 ?       This
gluey substance was    also  abundant    on the stones of Stannern :
                                         it,
according to a description given of      it seems to have been simi
lar to cart-wheel grease.     This viscous matter     isprobably a re
sidue of that which in the preceding combustion was not entirely
consumed, and to which must be ascribed the smoke which these
stones emit frequently after their fall.
    There have been even aerolites differing from those hitherto
analysed  : we ought to rank in this class the small white stones
which, covered with ice, fell in Russia the white flints which in.
                                            ;
 1552 made so great ravages near Schleusinger in Bavaria, and
at the gates of Munich, and of which several specimens were
long preserved.   Lastly, the stone which fell in Ireland in 177     1>
and which resembled       grayish siliceous flint, like those precipi
                          a
tated at Burgos in 438, and which were so light that the largest
                      1
did not weigh half        pound, and some were only the size of
                          a
small ear drops.   This last fact, however singular       may appear,
                                                          it
may be considered as correct, according to the account given of
it   by M. Proust.
     Aerolites seem   therefore^   from all that has been observed, to.
                                                                  hava

                   from the Clouds, or Aerolites.               223
have so intimate a connection with balls of fire, that we may be
almost certain that in seasons during which abundance of ignited
meteors has been seen, there have been also one or more falls of
stones.      In the same way as ignited meteors precede or accom
pany earthquakes, aerolites also meet with these great phaeno-
mena.      In fact, seasons remarkable for violent storms, earth
quakes, or other phaenomena, have also been productive of falls
of stones. We mav cite as a proof the years 1618, 1650, 1654,
 1668, 1674, 1723,- 1/43, 1753, 1755, 1768, 1812, &c.           Fre
 quently also the period of an earthquake has coincided perfectly
with a fall of aerolites, as in 1764, when in the island of Funen
in the north of Germany, there were in the same week violent
shocks of an earthquake, and a shower of meteorolites was pre
cipitated.     The same effects have been witnessed in Germany
 and Switzerland: thus on the 7th of November 1742, the day
 on which the city of Basle suffered so much damage from an
earthquake, an aerolite fell at Ensisheim, a short distance off.
   We have already remarked, that the principal hypotheses pro
posed to explain all these phaenom.sna are reducible to two funda
mental propositions ; the one may be called cosmic, and the other
telluric.     The former has been most generally adopted, parti
cularly that branch of it which considers aerolites as bodies
darted from the moon, and which have exceeded the point at
which the attractions of the earth and of the moon are in equili
brium. We may say on this subject, that by adopting this
hypothesis, it does not appear that the least attention has been
given to the difference of the weather, or to the state of the
barometer and thermometer, to the season, or the time of the
day when these aerolites have most usually fallen. Nevertheless
there exist on this subject very striking differences, and which
can hardly be accounted for by adopting the theory which makes
aerolites come from the moon.        Nor does this theory show the
Telation which exists between the fall of these stones and the
cloud which always accompanies their fall. This cloud even pre
cedes in certain circumstances the fall of the meteorolites, which
proves that it is not formed by the vapours exhaled by the stones,
as some have asserted.       This explanation would besides be in
admissible on account of the quantity of vapours, which must be
in the ratio of the size of the stones.     Finally, these bodies, if
they came from the moon, would certainly be consumed to the
last atom, on account of the length of way which they have to
come, and yet they never explode until very near the ground.
Those who adopt this theory regard atmospheric stones as lava,
which agrees badly with the always slight and superficial oxida
tion of those bodies. Nor does this theory account for the ex
plosions which always accompany the fall of aerolites- ; wherea*

224   Observations on the     Fall of       Stones from the Clouds.
in the eruptions of volcanoes they are very rarely perceived, and
in a way purely accidental.      The frequently considerable in
equality  of their orbit, the obliquity of their direction, and their
course, frequently also almost parallel to the earth, and still more
the multiplied reboundings of one of those stoiies, (which prove a
direction quite the reverse of that of gravity,) are so many proofs
which will not admit of our regarding the lunar theory as the
most probable.
    We may add, that by adopting this theory we can by no means
explain the slowness of the fall of aerolites. Bodies falling from
the moon would not be precipitated on the roofs of houses,
without sinking into them or damaging them considerably : but
this has never been observed. The duration of the phaenomenon
ought to be nearly the same, making allowance for their volume
or weight ; but sometimes their duration is prolonged for some
minutes, and on some rare occasions for whole hours.
    Besides these difficulties, which are weighty, there are other
phaenomena which scarcely can be accounted for upon the same
theory ; and although these phaenomena are not absolutely of the
same kind with meteorolites, they are so closely allied to them
that we can scarcely separate them.
    We ought probably to rank with aerolites the ignited bodies,
which are only distinguished from them by their substance not
being metallic.     Besides, they fall, like meteoric stones, in the
warmest months      and   in calm weather ; they burn in the same
manner, and traverse their orbit with the same velocity ; while
the direction in which they approach the earth is similar to that
of the aerolites.    Then their explosions are nearly' similar ; and
even there has been observed, as well as with meteorolites, par
ticularly that of 1772, a rotation around their centre.
    What merits most attention        is,
                                        that these ignited globes have,
like the aerolites, a  roundish form and a gelatinous consistence.
 In fact, a globe of fire which fell in the East Indies in 1218
 left, after a dreadful explosion, a large rolmd heap of gelatine of
tolerable consistence.    A   similar mass, but gray and spongy, was
 found at Coblentz after the explosion of ball of fire *.
                                                   a              These
 observations are not unique      : latterly similar masses have been
 found of the size of   a   man's head      f- Silverschlag even relates
 having   seen  the residue   of  an  ignited  globe  which presented a
 gelatinous aspect   with a  whitish   colour    J.
       * Comment. de Rebus, tome xxvi.      179.
                                            p.
       + Journal de. Physique de Gilbert. tome vi.
      \  Theorie der 17(32, benbachleten Fever Kugel.   Leipsic,   1764.
                            [To   be continued.]
                                                         XXXVII.           De

                      Notices respecting New Books.                223
              XXXVII.     Notices respecting New Books.
 Description    des Tombeaux, &c. — Description of the Tombs dis
     covered  at Pompeia in 1S12.       By A. L. Millin, Member
     of the  Fre?wh Institute, &c. &c.       Naples : printed at the
     Royal Press.    Published at Paris in 1S14. 1 vol. 8vo.
 We      are indebted to the Travels of M. Millin in Italy, whicH
 lasted two whole years, for the present work, and which has been
 published separately, and indeed as a kind of precursor to his
 more ample details.
     The first tomb described is square, surrounded by a wall and
 covered with a roof composed of flat stones resting on each
 other, and gradually becoming narrower so as to form on each
 side a kind of staircase of three steps:      the last of these steps
 bears a square base a little elevated, on which there was pro
 bably a statue.     This gives the tomb itself a very elegant form,
 resembling that of Mausolus king of Caria, to which, however,
 it cannot be compared in point of the luxury and beauty of the
 ornaments.      It would appear that this form was much in vogue
'it Poinpeia ; for two other tombs quite similar have been found.
     Without entering fully into the accurate details given by
 M. Millin respecting the construction and internal distribution
 of this tomb, We shall proceed to notice the bas-reliefs with
 which it is decorated.      The'se bas-reliefs are three in number.
 Two are in front of the tomb, and are arranged on two plans :
 the first represents combats of gladiators ; the second, one of those
 combats called venationes, because they took place between
 men and animals.       The third bas-relief adorns the upper part
 of the entrance into the tomb : we there see five men, of whom
 four are armed.      We shall describe this presently.      All these
 bas-reliefs are interesting, because they convey some curious in
 formation as to the combats of gladiators and others.         On the
 first bas-relief there are twelve gladiators who combat two and
 two, forming six pairs (paria).     The latter word, M. Millin ob
 serves, has been always used to denote two adversaries.        Above
 each pair there are inscriptions painted.      The first pair are oa
 horseback : here M. Millin takes occasion to refute Justus
 Lipsius and Ferrarius, who assert that these mounted gladiators
 were called andabatce.       He admits that there were gladiators
 known by this name ; but he remarks that they wore casques or
 helmets which covered their- heads completely, and left no aper
 ture for the face ; that they fought without seeing one another ;
 and that no author says they fought on horseback.          The gladi
 ators on horseback were simply called equites, which M. Millin
 proves by a passage of Isidorus, and by the fine inscription of
 Venusium published by Fabretti, Inscript. domestic, c. l.n. 202.
     Vol.44. No. 197. Sept. 1 9 14.             P                Those

                   Notices respecting New Books.
Those whom we see there fight with lances : they bear a small
round buckler (parma), which is particularly suitable for horse
men, because it is lighter than the scutum, and are clothed only
in a short tunic and a small chlamys : the vizor of their helmet
is not down, and the countenance is completely exposed.
    M. Millin enters into some curious details on the subject of
the inscriptions which are over the heads of these combatants.
We read above the first BEBRYX IUL. XV. V ; and above the
second NOB1L. FOR. IV. XII.                M. Millin interprets the one
Bebryx Juliensis        XV.   vicit, "Bebryx the Frioulian has con
quered fifteen times;" and the other
                                             " Nubilis Forojuliensis
                                                                   XII.
 (vicil), "A       Noble Frioulian has conquered twelve times."
Bebryx and Npbilis are their names : there is nothing surprising
in this last, as the proper name of a gladiator, since we find one
in Winckelman Monum. ined. No. 197, wno i» called Habilis :
as to Bebryx, which properly speaking is an adjective designating
an inhabitant of Bebrycia, a celebrated country of Asia, where
the inhabitants were renowned for bodily strength and their
address in gymnastic exercises, it is proved that it had be
come a proper name, since we have an example in Muratori
 MDCCLXXXIV. 40: thus it may have been the name of a>
gladiator, although he was not born in Bebrycia. IUL. and FOR.
 IUL. designate the country of our two gladiators. There can
be no doubt that the letters FOR. IUL. are the initials of the
word Forojuliensis, which means ananhabitant of Frejus or Frioul
 (Forum Jitlium or Julii).          As to the letters IUL. which are
repeated above the other gladiators of the same bas-relief (with,
the exception of one only), M. Millin thinks with great pro
bability that they are also the initials of the word Juliensis, which
is all that remains for Forojulitnsis, and that all these gladiators
 were natives of the same place.         It remains to be decided if they
 were Frejulians or Frioulians : M. Millin prefers regarding them a*
 prejulians, because we know that Gaul furnished abundance of
 gladiators.      The letters XV. V. and XII. designate, according to
M. Millin, the number of victories gained by Bebryx and . his
 adversary Nobilis, which seems to him the onlv rational expla
 nation which can be given of       it,    since the same formula  is   re
peated  in     all the other inscriptions :   it  must only be supposed
 that the last letter
                    V   is   wantingin     the second.    This conjecture
 supplies   M.   Millin  with an   opportunity  of removinga     consider
 able degree       of obscurity   in  the  elegant  Venusian   inseriptioa
 mentioned above: "This inscription," he says in            a   note, " is
 separated into four divisions      by     the words Equites, Traces,
 Myrmillones, Velites, Oplomachi, Samnites, Iietiarii, Scisores,
  Galli, which designate the different classes of gladiators of this
 troop.     The name of the gladiator     is    frequently accompanied
 Vy  the  initials  of another word, of which Fabretti and Lupuli
                                                                      have

                   Notices respecting New Books.                227
have given     no explanation : perhaps it indicates the country of
 the gladiator.    The number which follows is that of his vic
tories : the word vicil i$ given by the letter > placed thus.
 Finally, in the last column we see a T, or a number : the letter T
 must signify Tiro, or apprentice ; and the number, that of the
 years which the gladiator has passed in the troop.     According to
 mv conjecture, we mav explain the following passages in this way :
 SECVNDVS POMP H> II. Secuudus of Pompeia conquered
twice, and has since served two years. DORYS PIS VI> III.
 Poris of Pesaro has conquered six times, and served four years.
 HILARIO ARR VII > VIII.              Hilario of Ariano conquered
 seven times, and served eight years, &c."
    All the other gladiators represented on this bas-relief are on
foot : those of the second pair have legs covered with plates of
metal, and their body is begirt with similar plates : they rest on
a buckler formed like the Roman scutum, and are ready for
fighting.     The inscriptions above are not so well preserved as
 the foregoing, and the names of the two gladiators are lost. We
 read above the first IUL. XV. which indicates that he was a
Frejuiian, and that he had been fifteen times victorious : above
the second is written IB . XXX . V : M. Millin thinks that the
two letters IB. might have been the initials of the word Iherus,
and that the gladiator who was thus thirty times victor was a Spa
niard : this is the only one who is not designated as a Frejulian.
    One of the gladiators of the third pair is grievously wounded,
and his blood flows on the arena : the other has bent forward
on one knee, and raises his left hand.       Does the latter suppli
 cate his life, or on the contrary does he patiently await the
blow which his adversary is about to give him ?        In the course
of this inquiry M. Millin elucidates several practices in the com
bats of gladiators, and cites various expressions of ancient au
thors on this subject.      We need not follow him through these
interesting details, but shall adhere to the inscriptions relative
to this pair of combatants.        These inscriptions are placed on
two lines, both above the gladiator on his knee, so that we can
not ascertain at first sight to whom they refer.     M, Millin suc
ceeds, however, in settling what belongs to each.         The upper
inscription is thus conceived: SVS IVL. XV           M.0.        The
letters SVS are the last of the gladiator's name, and it is im
possible to complete        because a great number of names have
                             it,
the same termination.        The consecutive letters IUL. XV an
nounce that the gladiator was of Frejus, and that he was fifteen
times victor.     The letters M. ©. remain to be accounted for.
M. Millin proves    by  the joint testimony of inscriptions and au
thors, that the last of these letters, which has the form of the
Greek theta,  is    a funereal letter, announcing that a man      is
dead, and that     it   isemployed even in Latin inscriptions.    He
                                   P   2                      thence

22S                 Notices respecting New Books.
thence concludes that the inscription thus terminated by that
letter should belong to the kneeling and conquered gladiator :
we learn also that he died in this contest, after having been
victor in fifteen other combats.             Another inference which
M. Millin draws from hence         is,  that the letter M, which pre
cedes the ©, cannot be supplied           by
                                           reading Missus (sent back),
and that  it  must be   the  initial of the word Myrmillo, which we
thus find in the list of gladiators.         The upper inscription be
longing as we have seen to the gladiator conquered, the lower
ought to refer to the conqueror       :  his name      thus expressed in
                                                         is
full, HIPPOLYTVS,and the letters which follow in bad preserva
 tion, belong to the words FO IUL V. which inform us that this
 Hippolytus was five times victor.         M. Millin here takes occa
sion to give an explanation of the singular Mosaics of the Albani
Villa, which Winckelman has figured, but without any description.
    The fourth pair presents no difficulty.         The two combatants
have thrown .aside their bucklers, and the conqueror, who has
lost his helmet, puts his hand upon his adversary as                to hold
                                                                          if
him so as to receive the sword with which he                about to strike
                                                              is
him. There     is   only one inscription here, and             uncertain to
                                                              it   is
which of the two    it belongs.     We read QVS IUL VI, Quintus
                                               :
the Frejulian has conquered six times.
    The fifth pair       remarkable from the two myrmillos being
                        is
armed    with  a trident, which  is  contrary to what has been trans
 mitted to us respecting the gladiators        ; viz. that the myrmillo
was armed with      a fork or trident (fuscina), and that he attacked
 the reliarius who held      a net; or the tracts, who carried        round a
 buckler and a crooked sword.          This proves that customs varied
 among the Romans according to times and places and M. Millin  ;
 thence takes occasion to remark, that                general error with
                                               it   is
                                                    a
 all those who give treatises on the manners and customs of the
 Romans, not to distinguish the sera at which the authors wrote,
whom they quote, and the country to which they belonged, er
 roneously regarding as general, usages which have been modified
 by   athousand circumstances.         Here also there         only one
                                                                   is            in
scription, NITIMO            IVL
                             F    V,    which      it difficult to ascribe
                                                        is
 to either gladiator.     The first letters are the termination of a
 proper name which cannot be filled up             the others show that
                                                    :
 the gladiator was       aFrejulian, and that he had conquered five
 times.    The termination of the proper name in O, which                         is
 Gallic, confirms M. Millin in his conjecture that the gladiators
 in this bas-relief were Frejulians rather than Frioulians.
    The last groupe also has no more than one inscription. • We
 there read the end of the name of one of the combatants which
 terminates in     A, and the letters IVL XV M, which inform us
 that this Frejulian had conquered fifteen times, and that he was
a   myrmillo.
                                                                        Independent

                                    Notices respecting New Books.                        228
               Independent of these inscriptions peculiar to each groupe,
           there was another which occupied perhaps the whole length of
           the bas-relief, and which probably contained an account of the
           personage to whom this tomb belonged, and of the games which
           were celebrated at his funeral : there now remain a few words
           only, and part of these even is effaced.        M. Millin reads thus :
           mvneke qvinti amfliati PUBLii FiLii svmmo, and he in
           terprets them into
                                  " tlie last offices performed to Quintus Am-
          pliatus, the son of Publius." This explanation he thinks is sim
          ple and natural, and he enters into a long discussion in support
          of it : this discussion was provoked by another inscription found
           a short distance from the tomb, and which has been placed on
          its principal front because it was thought to belong to             and  it,
          because       fits the place extremely
                         it                         well where   has been fixed.
                                                                             it
         If   this inscription really belonged to this tomb,       was not Quin
                                                                              it
          tus Ampliatus, but one called Riccius Scaurus,         Duumvir, whose
                                                                             a
          ashes      contained
                    it              and Ampliatus can only be regarded as the
                                    ;
j         magistrate     who   superintended the games celebrated in honour
           of this Scaurus so that the fragment of the inscription
                                ;                                           ques   in
          tion* ought to be interpreted in this manner: "In the great
          games which were given under the direction of Quintus Am
          pliatus."      M. Millin thought at first this last interpretation was
          forced, and not conformable to the rules of good latinity.           He
          inclined to think that the inscription which seems to ascribe the
»   .     monument to Riccius Scaurus, really could not have belonged to
        v
          this monument.         Subsequently, however, the manner in which
          the stone fitted the tomb, and the discovery of another inscription
          found      inthe Basilicon, compelled him to change his opinion.
          This inscription speaks of one Ampliatus, the manager of troop           a
          of gladiators.        It  thus conceived
                                     is                          :
                                  N   .  FESTl . AMPUATI
                                                 .                       .
                      FAMIL1A GJ.ADIATOHIA . l'VGNA             ITERVM
                             PVGNA XVI K . IVN VENAT VELA
              " The troop of gladiators of N. Festus Ampliatus will com
          bat for- the second time.        Combat the XVI. of the Kalends of
          June. Hunting and Hawking."
           *   It   is   thus conceived     :
                                                     RJCIO AV MEN
                                                       SCAVIIO
                                                       ji via id
                                        .   ECVKIONES LOCVM          MONVM
                              (X) (X) IN*VNERE       ET STATV^M EQVESTR.
                                     FO 110. PON EN DAM CENSVE11VXT
                                  SCAV11VS PATER FIUO.
           To Riccius Scaurus, son of A. of the Menenian tribe, Duumvir for               the
         administration of justice the Decmiones have given the "round for
                                            ;                                             the
         monument, and 2000 sesterces for the funeral, and decreed the erection
         of an equestrian statue the Forum. inScaurus the father to his son.
                                                        P   3                            Th8

23t)               Notices respecting New Books.
   The second bas-relief which adorns the first tomb represent*,
as we have observed, a chase, another description of spectacles
with wheh the funeral ceremonies of the dead were accompanied.
We there ses a rabbit, a hare, and a stag, pursued by dogs, and
two bestiarii combating with a bull and two boars.
    The third bas-relief, and that which adorns the upper part of
the gate of entrance to the tomb, shows us four gladiators whose
bodies are covered with plates of metal, and who bear helmets,
bucklers of different forms, and cuirasses more or less orna
mented.      One of these gladiators is wounded ; the three others
 are standing.    One of the latter, who seems to have acted the
 chief part in the games, is led by a man habited in the simple
 chlamys.     He is perhaps the lanista, or chief of the troop.
 M. Millin thinks with reason that this bas-relief refers like the
former to the games celebrated at the funeral of Riccius.       The
 gladiators who are therein represented are probably the con
 querors, four of whom only have been figured because the two
 others are supposed to be killed, or their victory disputed, or
 perhaps merely because the space has only admitted of the four
 principal gladiators being represented.
    M. Millin here introduces some interesting matter as to the
 passion of the inhabitants of Pompeia for scenic games, re
 marking the bad style of the figures upon the bas-reliefs in ques
 tion, and commenting on the technical part of these bas-reliefs
 and the general form of the tomb.
    The second tomb abuts upon the first, *and is only separated
 from it by a wall.    It is a round tower raised on a square base,
 and surrounded by a wall adorned with pilasters.        The angles
 of this wall bear cubes terminated by small pyramids, and de
 corated on one side with stucco bas-reliefs descriptive of funeral
 ceremonies and the state of the soul after death : these are al
 legories like those usually seen on painted vases.       M. Millin
 has figured two of these small bas-reliefs : one represents a
 woman, perhaps the wife of the deceased, who sacrifices to his
 manes by offering upon an altar loaded with fruit a patera and
 a fillet, symbols of the piety and purity of the initiated : on an
 other we see another woman who decorates with a fillet the
 skeleton of the defunct, to indicate that, purified by the sacred
 mysteries, he will enter into the fortunate islands destined to
 receive the souls of virtuous men.        This explanation which.
  M. Millin gives of these bas-reliefs is confirmed by the allego
 rical figures which are painted alfresco on the walls in the in
 side of the round tower, where are to be seen dolphins and
 other sea animals, other symbols of the felicity which virtuous
  men purified by initiation are to enjoy in the fortunate islands,
 where their souls are conveyed by nymphs seated on these ani
                                                               mals :

                     Notices respecting New Books.                261
rhals  : this tomb has no inscription ; the entablature only which
contained it is to be seen in the middle of the wall.      The name
of the person to whom it belonged is therefore unknown.
    M. Millin has devoted three plates to the two tombs just
mentioned.       The first plate contains the plans and sections, the
second gives the perspective, and in the third are figured more
at length the bas-reliefs with which it is adorned.
    The third tomb is figured in the fourth plate, and the fifth
gives the minor details.       The general form of this tomb is very
elegant : it is nearly the same with the tomb of ftiecius, but it
is of very fine white marble and has different ornaments.        It is
surrounded by a wall absolutely similar to that of the second
tomb. We read the following inscription on the principal front :
                         C. CALVENTIO OVTETO
                               AVGVSTALI
                 HVIC   OB MVKIFICENT DECVRIONVM
               DECRETO ET POPVLI CONSESV BISELLII
                           HONOR DATVS EST.
    **
       To Caius Calventius Quietus, Augustalis ; the honour of the
Bisellium was decreed to him by a decree of the Decurions and
 the consent of the, people, on account of his munificence."
     M. Millin enters into some interesting inquiries respecting the
Bisellium mentioned in this inscription.        Notwithstanding the
 learned and voluminous treatise of Chimentelli, entitled Marmor
 Pisanum de honore Bisellii, and the labours of Noris and Ma-
 zocchi on the same subject, the former in his Cenotaphia Pisana,
 and the latter in his Talulce Heracleeuses, p. 155, neither the
 use nor form of the Bisellium was known, and it was equally un
 certain what was the meaning of the "honour of the Bisellium."
 The tomb at Pompeia now under examination is the first mo
nument which affords us an authentic representation of this kind
 of seat ; it is given under the inscription which we have cited,
 and M. Millin has exhibited it separately in his fifth plate.      It
 is a kind of bench capable of holding two persons, although it
 was used by one only, and it was more or less ornamented, as
 well as the cushion which was placed upon it: this is evident,
 on comparing this bisellium with that which will be found in
 the next tomb described in the seventh plate.         As to the kind
  of honour of which the bisellium was the distinctive mark,
  M. Millin, in comparing the above inscription with that in the
  fourth tomb, and with another which has been published by
  Fabretti, Inscript. III. 324, deduces from the comparison the
  following facts; viz. that the use of the bisellium was granted
  to persons of high consideration ; that they had a right to sit
  higher than the rest at the theatre, the forum, and at public
                                 P 4                            game*

€32                    Notices respecting New Books.              '
games and festivals ; that this honour was decreed in the name
of the people by a decree of the Decuriones ; that it was obtained
by public services or by acts of munificence; finally, that he who
received the honour was afterwards entitled to the appellation
of Bisellarius. M. Millin observes that all the persons men
tioned in the inscriptions as having obtained the honour of the
bisellium were Augustales, or Priests of Augustus, and he is in
clined to think with Fabretti that this honour was peculiar to
them.      This kind of distinction, he adds, was absolutely muni
cipal ; it gave no rank, no prerogative, and even no distinction
out of the city where it was decreed ; this is the reason why no
author has mentioned           it,
                                 although      it contained on a great
                                                    is
number of inscriptions.
    The principal front of the tomb           agreeably decorated with
                                               is
mouldings which surround the inscription, and leaves of the
palm tree enwreathed form festoons around, the extremities being
adorned with rams' heads. The two lateral fronts are ornamented
with crowns of oak leaves tied together with fillets.            Lastly,
on the small pyramids raised on the outer wall there are stucco                  >
figures., the most interesting of which M. Millin has engraved
in  his fifth plate.    Among them        Victory on
                                          is             globe, holding
                                                          a
a garland or fillet       : CEdipus who unravels the riddle of the
sphinx, and probably the same hero who rests after having ex
plained it.     Behind him there         a column on which his sword
                                         is                                      .
is suspended      by
                   a  belt, and this column    surmounted
                                                is                by
                                                                sphere.
                                                                      a
These figures are emblems of the employment of life, the uncer
tainty of the future, death, and finally the mystical doctrine of
the ancients.
    The fourth tomb, as figured in the sixth plate, has an inclosure
similar to the foregoing but the pyramids which terminate the
                               ;
cubical stones with which this wall             decorated are without
                                                is
sculptures.     The form of the edifice itself         nearly the same
                                                         is
with that of the tombs of Ampliatus and Calventius.               In the.
middle of the principal front we read this inscription            :
                     NAEVOIJE1A LIB TVCHK SIBI ET
                  CMVNATIO FAVSTO A\G ET PAGANO
                  CVI DECVRIONES CONSENSV POPVLI
             B1SELL1VM OB MERITA EIVS DECREVERVKT
               HOC MONVMENTVM NAEVOLEIA TYCHE
                              LIBERTIS SVIS
            XIBE41T ABVS O ET        MVNAT.
                                     C          FAVST
                                                    P     VIVAF
                             PECIT
     " Naevolia
              Tyche, freed woman, to herself and to
                           a                             Mwia-        C,
tius Faustus, Augusiulis and Paganus, to whom the Decurions,
with the consent of the people, have decreed the bisellium., on
                                                                       account

                    Notices respecting New Books.               233
account of their merits. Naevoleia Tyche has caused this monu
ment to be erected while still alive, for her freed men, her freed
women, and for C. Munatius son of Faustus/'
    Under this inscription is a bas-relief representing the solemn
sacrifice which probably took place at the funeral of Munatius.
This bas-relief and the inscription have a very rich frame-work,
in the centre of which, and above, is the bust of Naevoleia Tyche
who constructed the monument.         On one of the sides we see
the bisellium of Munatius : it is less ornamented than that of
Calventius, and is placed within a frame-work of flowers and
leaves of the acanihiLS.    The other side has, in the midst of a
frame precisely similar, a beautiful marble bas-relief representing
a bark freighted with four funeral genii, who perform the office
of boatmen.      One of these is in the act of ascending the princi
pal rope, and lowering the sail which two others are occupied in
furling on the yard : the fourth, who is standing upright, seem*
to direct this manoeuvre, and to superintend its execution.
 M. Millin regards this manoeuvre as an ingenious allegory of the
painful voyage which the soul is compelled to take in this life :
after many storms, he observes, death offers a secure harbour,
and it is into this harbour that Naevoleia, who is stationed on
the poop covered like the shades of the departed with a long
veil, is about to enter.    All these details are exhibited in the
 seventh and last plate.
    In the interior of this tomb, which is square, several vases of
a red earth were found, with figures on them in relief ; these
vases appear to be Gallic, if we were to judge by the nature of
the earth, the workmanship of the relievo, and the style of the
 design : they completely resemble those which are found in such
 abundance in France, Belgium, and Great Britain.         M. Millin
 does not think it more astonishing that an inhabitant of Pom-
 peia should possess Gallic vases, than to see nowadays at Naples
 porcelain from Saxony, Sevres, China, and Japan.       Glass phials
 have also been found filled with a reddish water which had pro
 bably contained an animal substance.          These were so well
 closed up, that the liquor was not evaporated, and it had a nau
 seous taste.
    Close to the entrance of the tomb is one of these marble pi
 lasters surmounted by a ball, which are very common at Pompeia.
These marbles are generally sawed throughout their whole length,
 and they bear an inscription; M. Millin has engraved one of
 them in the first plate.    These stones were simple commemora
 tions : M. Millin thought at first that their form was allegorical,
 and a symbol of Fatality, expressed by the sphere, which Lachesis
 uses to draw the horoscope of men.         Subsequently, however,
 it was found that there was the representation of human hair
                                                             behind,

234                   Notices respecting New Books.
behind, which proves that these were heads sawn half through,
the back part having still the mark of the hair, and the flattened
face bearing an inscription.         These heads are thus figured in
the work     of   M.  de  Clarac,  entitled  " Pompeia," and in that of
M. Mazoi. M. Millin gives in a note the inscriptions which he
remarked upon these stones.
   Close by the monument of Naevoleia there is also an inclo-
sure, within which instead of a tomb is a triclinium, which was
probably one of its appendages, although there is no inscription
to make it known, nor any communication between the two
monuments.        This triclinium is built of brick, and covered with
stucco : it is of a sloping form towards the walls, and rises towards
the square table which is in the middle.           It was destined to re
present  the    funereal  repose,  of which   mention   is so often made
in ancient inscriptions.       It is also figured in the first plate.
   We now come to the last tomb described bv M. Millin, and
which is also engraved in the first plate.          This tomb is in the
form of an altar, and is built of quadrangular stones carefully
hewn.     On three sides of a square stone is this inscription in         •»
beautiful characters:
                   M. ALLEIO LVCCIO LIBEISUE PATRI
                  AKJMLI II VIR PRAEFECTO QVINQ ET
             M ALLEIO LIBELLAE F DECVRIONI VIXIT
             ANNJS XVII LOCVS MONVMENTI PVBLICE
                         DATVS EST ALLEIA M F                             J
                     DEC1MILLA SACERDOS PVBLICA
                  CERERIS FACIVNDVM CVRAVIT VIRO
                                  ET FILIO
   " To  Marcus Alleius Luccius Libella, the father, Mdtie II Vir,
prefect for five years, and to Marcus Alleius Libella, his son,
DeeUrio, who lived 17 years.             The ground for this monument
was given by the people. Alleia Decimilla, daughter of M. public
priestess of Ceres, took care to see it executed for her husband
and her son."
   M. Millin here terminates his present labours ; and with the
generous feelings peculiar to a man of true genius and learning,
he informs us that he would have been still more ample in his
details, but for an intended publication by M. Mazoi, to be
entitled " The Ruins of Pompeia," and which is now in the
press.
   M. Millin, with all the fire of a classical antiquarian, thus
expresses his indignation against those who have defaced many
of the beautiful monuments of Pompeia, by chipping off fragments
or carving their names upon the most conspicuous places. With
this honest effusion we shall close our account of his valuable
work.       ...                          ,       .  .
                                                                    " The

                            Notices respecting New Books.                         255
   "      The spoliations which          are daily committed at Pompeia are
truly afflicting.           It would   seem   as if the mania of destruction
was added to the effects of an insane admiration, so as to leave
nothing behind.       Wicked and foolish persons are in the habit
of breaking altars and columns, and defacing ornaments.            Pre
tended amateurs, ridiculously zealous, profit by the absence or
inattention of the guardians, and even sometimes display their
folly and cupidity by trying to remove bronze letters, or to de
tach portions of Mosaic work. As it                 is,
                                             these Mosaics are spoiled
 by  having the dust scraped off with which they are covered in
winter, to show them to the curious.          The finest paintings are
 defaced       by
              incautiously washing   them   with   view to make their
                                                           a
colours appear richer.     But what shall say of the odious mania
                                                     I
 with which some travellers are seized, of writing their names
with      pointed instrument, not omitting the place of their birth,
          a
 and the day of their mischievous visit to Pompeia                 even
                                                                    !   It   is
fortunate that they do not always add the names of their sweet
 hearts    ! In regarding this sad mixture of names of all nations,
 we may suppose we are reading the registry of the grand as
 sembly in Pandaemonium, or of the general meeting which              to          is
 take place in the valley of'Jehosaphat.             painful to reflect
                                                          It   is
 that the names which disfigure the beautiful coloured stuccoes^
 the finest paintings, and the most elegant arabesques, do not be
 long to the lower classes of society, whose want of education
 might excuse them.       We find, on the contrary, the names of a
 great number of persons very well known in the world, well
 educated, and of distinguished rank.           have collected a long
                                                      I
 list, and       should publish       should be accused of      want of
               I if
                                         itI                            a
 decorum       : I
                should be doing nothing more, however, than con
 tributing to introduce these aspirants a little sooner to the tem
 ple of glory, and giving them      little more of that celebrity which
                                           a
  they desire.    Would    not be possible, for instance, to prohibit
                                  it
  all entrance into the houses and other buildings of Pompeia, to
 those who are not attended by a guardian, leaving the streets
 only free of access      Why not inflict severe penalties upon those
                              ?
 who touch these monuments with profane hands                 large fine
                                                                    ?   A
 ought to be imposed on those who carve their names on the
 stucco or stone nay,     ; could wish that the exaction of the fine
                                  I
 and the name of the transgressor should be publicly announced
 in  the Neapolitan Moniteuf.         could wish also that they would
                                           I
  affix to the article the following verse of Martial               :
                    "   Nomina stuitorum semper in moenia leguntur."
      "   The names of fools           are always   to be found on the walls."
    Mr. T. F. Forster has in the press  work entitled Flora Ton-
                                                     a
 Irigiensis  or,;   Catalogue of Plants grown in the Neighbour
                           A
 hood of Tunbridge Wells.

                               C       236      ]
       XXXVIII.     Intelligence and Miscellaneous               Articles.
                   ATMOSPHERIC             PHENOMENON.
 On      Sunday night the 1 1th of September, a luminous arch ex
  tending from the western to the eastern horizon was visible to
  the inhabitants of the greater part of Britain and Ireland. This
  phaenomenon, interesting from the rarity of its occurence, was,
  in the present instance, rendered still more so from being in op
  position to the received notions of the causes which produce                    it,
  and the season of its appearance.              has been supposed that
                                                    It
  they  appear   only at  the full of   the  moon,    and are occasioned
 by   the refraction of her rays in drops of rain.       Now the bow in
  question appeared     four  hours   before   the  rising of the moon,
  which, instead of being at its full, was 26 days old, and there
  was no rain at the time, the evening being uncommonly serene,
  the sky unclouded, and the air rather dry and frosty than humid                 ;
  the thermometer at the time standing at 50, and the barometer
 rather above 30.      The stars during the continuance of the bow
 were particularly brilliant,' but some time after its extinction
 they became dull.      Our informant first observed this phEenome-
 uon at 20 minutes past eight.             was a strongly marked and
                                           It
 rather luminous band, less in its arc than the bis Solaris, and
 without any variety of colour     ;    was at that time some degrees
                                       it
 above Orion's dagger, which appeared to be nearly the centre of
 the arc;    at 40 minutes past    8the north-west limb was fainter
 than the other, and the whole appeared to decline            at 8. 50.
                                                                                 it it
                                                                 ;
 became broader, and covered the first star in the dagger          at;       9
 extended to the middle star, contracting and fading at its ex
 tremities; at 5    minutes past   9    was barely discernible; and at
                                       it
 10 minutes past    9   was totally dissipated      large light patches
                                                         ;
 were, however, seen till nearly       2
                                       1 o'clock, about, but more par
ticularly above, the space which the bow had occupied.              smart
                                                                      A
frost took place during the night; the thermometer at 12 had
fallen to 47, — Although our informant, at the time of viewing
this bow, could not distinguish any clouds or mist, yet, on his
approaching the city from the southward, between seven and
eight o'clock in the evening, he observed              dun-coloured and
                                                             a
rather dense vapour, suspended over the town, rising in the south
toa    considerable height, and, as he supposed, formed by exha
lations from the city.     Whether this vapour had dissipated at the
time the bow appeared, or,         if  not, whether the vesiculae of
which  it  was composed, and which were so small as not to ob
scure or even dim the brilliancy of the stars, were sufficient to
refract the rays of light passing into them, he professes himself
                                                                  incompetent

             Detonating Balls.— -School    of Phi/sic in Ireland.    237
   Incompetent to decide. The weather for a fortnight previous had
   been uncommonly fine, and the day following, on which our in
   formant wrotej was the same;
                             DETONATING BALLS.
        These balls, which have for some time been exhibited at Lec
   tures as a chemical experiment, are now sold in some shops in
    London. We are sorry that they should thus be put into the
   hands of children and foolish people.        They are formed by in
   closing in little glass bulbs about a quarter of a grain of fulmi
    nating silver, and then covering the bulb with thin paper pasted
    all over it to secure the orifice.   Children by putting them into
   their mouths may be much injured by their explosion — receives!
   into the stomach they would cause death.
                      SCHOOL   OF PHYSIC  IN IRELAND.
       The Education of Medical Students is committed to six Pro
   cessors.      Three of these, viz. the Professors of Anatonty, Che
   mistry,   and   Botany, are on the foundation of Trinity College,
   and are called the University Professors.      The other three, viz.
   the Professors of the Institutes of Medicine, of the Practice of
   Medicine, and of Materia Medica, are on Sir Patrick Dun's
   foundation, and are called the King's Professors.                  . ,.
       The Lectures on the above subjects commence on the first
i
   Monday in November, and terminate on the last day ofifApril
   in the succeeding year. Dissections and Anatomical Demonstra
   tions begin with December, and end early in the following April.
   The Lectures on Botany commence on the first Monday in May,
   and continue to the end of July.
       The Terms of attendance on each Course of Lectures are four'
   guineas. — The Terms for Dissections and Anatomical Demon
   strations are six guineas ; for which also, half of a subject for
   the Muscles, and half of another with the Bloodvessels injected,
   are furnished.      The Student is likewise at liberty to dissect any
   number of subjects he may procure at his own expense.             For
   the use of the Dissecting-room during the Season, without Sub
  jects being furnished, and for the Demonstrations, five guineas
  are paid ; or for the Demonstrations alone, four guineas.
       The Students in Botany have the use of one extensive Botanic
   Garden, and access to another in the immediate vicinity of
  Dublin. The opportunities of acquiring a knowledge of other
  branches of Natural History are also very considerable, especially
  of Mineralogy, by means of the valuable collection of Leske which
  is open to the public.
       The Clinical Hospital, belonging to the School of Physic, is
  supported bv a large endowment of the late Sir Patrick Dun.
                                                                        It

   238                           Lectures.
  It is calculated to contain above One Hundred patients ; from
  which number, Thirty are selected tor the purpose of Clinical
  Instruction and Lectures. Each of the six Professors acts in
  succession for three months as Clinical Lecturer and Physician.
  A large Library of Medical Books bequeathed by Sir Patrick
  Dun is appropriated to the use of the Students attending the
  Clinical Hospital. Fee for one year to Sir Patrick Dun's Hos
  pital is at present three guineas, which includes the attendance
  oil the Practice of the Physician in ordinary.       The Terms for
  each Course of Clinical Lectures are three guineas.
      Decrees in Trinity College.
                                    —There are Two Classes of Me
  dical Students in Trinity College.      Those of one Class are ma
  triculated in the University.     Three  years afterwards, on pro
 ducing Certificates of their Matriculation, and of their having
  attended Lectures on Anatomy with Dissections, Lectures on
  Chemistry, Botany, Materia Medica, the Institutes and Practice
 of Medicine, the Clinical Lectures and Practice of Sir Patrick
  Dun's Hospital, they are examined by the Six Professors, and
 obtain a Diploma from Trinity College to practise Medicine.
 This Diploma confers all the advantages of the Medical Degree*
 taken in the Colleges of Edinburgh and Glasgow.
     The other Class of Medical Students in Trinity College g'o
 through the regular Academical Course of Study.          Three years
 after taking the degree      of  Bachelor of Arts, having likewise
 completed their Medical Education, they are admitted to an
 examination before the Regius Professor of Physic, and the Pro
 fessors of Anatomy, Chemistry, and Botany, in the University ;
 and after performing the usual Academical Exercises, they take
the Degree of Bachelor in Medicine.         Upon sufficient Standing,
writing a Thesis, and undergoing a second Examination before
 the Medical Professors of the University, the Degree of Doctor
in Medicine is conferred. These Degrees rank with those in the
 Universities of Oxford and Cambridge.
     As qualifications previous to examination for the Diploma, the
Certificates of the Professors in Edinburgh are admitted for any
three of the Courses required to have been attended, with the
exception of the Clinical Lectures, which must have been in the
School of Physic in Ireland.
     Certificates of attendance on the Professors in the School of
Physic in Ireland are received in the Universities of Edinburgh
and of Glasgow, as giving standing in those places.
                                LECTURES,
     Mr. T. J. Pettigrew, F.L.S. will commence      a Course of Lec
tures on Human Anatomy and Physiology, -adapted to the
Amateur, on Friday the 2dth of October.           The Course, to be

                              Meteorology.                          23l>
comprised in IS Lectures, will be delivered on Wednesday and
Friday Evenings, at Half past Eight o'clock precisely.          Admis
sion to the Course, Two Guineas.          The   Introductory   Lecture
will consist of a general View of the Animal Structure.
     Particulars respecting the Lectures may be obtained by ap
plication to the Lecturer, No. 3, Bolt Court, Fleet Street.
                                ~~~~~                                i
                      Meteorological Observations.
     Since the 24th ult. I have not been able to keep a regular
journal of the weather.       The greatest part of the time I spent
 at Hastings, on the Sussex coast.      The weather has been varia
 ble, with no remarkable circumstances.          There were several
observations on the clouds which I made by the sea-side, which
 I shall take this occasion to mention, as they may be interesting
 to the nephrological reader.
     i noticed that the cumuli when over the sea were lower down
 than those over the land at the same time, as if the diurnal va
 pour plane extended higher above the land than above the sur
face of the ocean. When the same clouds passed over the land,
 they seemed to rise somewhat higher.       Among the colours which
 the clouds refracted on different occasions, but particularly with
 east wind, I noticed the frequency of a sea-green tinge in the
 cirrus and other light clouds.     I have seen this before on land,
 though less frequently than in maritime situations.          The first
 impression on my mind was, that the evaporation of sea-water in
 which some salts might ascend, might possibly be the cause of
 the glaucous colour of the cloud.     I think, however, it must have
 been owing to some peculiar refractive power originating in the
 structure of the cloud, and not to any colouring matter ; as it
 was oidy in certain situations in respect to the setting sun that
 the green colour was seen.      Some small meteors or falling stars
 of the common kind have happened in clear., nights with east
  wind.      After some days of very clear dry weather, and wind
 easterly; on the 19th of September the sky became full of cirrus,
  cirrocumulus , and cirrostratus, with rain at night. . The 20th,
  21st, and 22d, warm, and wind SW, and gentle showers. This
 evening (the 23d) we have had a thunder shower about nine.
        Clapton,
     Sept. 23, is 14.                            Thomas    Forster.
      P. S. — I shall be obliged to any of your correspondents who
 can favour me, through the medium of the Philosophical Maga
 zine, with a scientific account of the luminous atmospheric phae-
 nomenon mentioned in the Chester newspaper of last week.              It
  must have been a kind of aurora borealis.
                                                            JtfliTEORO-

240                                                   Meteorology*
                                          meteorological table,
                         By               Mr. Cary, of the Strand,
                                                 For September 1814.
                                                                              ¦ v*
                        Thermometer.
 Bays of
                                                  0         He-ght of
                                                            the Barom.
                                                                                     I   «
                                                                                         J
                                                                                                              Weather.
                                                                              Degreest
                    u'Cloc                Noon
 Month.
                             Mornir                                                               Hygrom
                                                             Inches.
                                                                                         nessby
                                                  0    7-
                   8
August   27          52                   63      52        29-95                  46                      Fair
         28          52                   60      52        30-11                  51                      Fair
         «9          57                   69      57           -13                 56                      Fair
         30          57                   72      57          -23                  56                      Fair
         31          56                   69      55           -27                 45                      Fair
Sept.      1         54                   67      56           -34                 56                      Fair
                     56                   69      57           -27                 62                      Fair
           4 3 2
                     52                   60      51           -29                41                       Cloudy
                     51                   66      53           -31                 56                      Fair
                     52                   67      55           -20                 60                      Fair
           6 5       55                   66      54         2979                  54                      Fair
                     55                   55      54          -75                        0                 Rain
           8 7       55                   60      52        30-11                  37                      Cloudy
                                      -
           9         52                   61      50           -12                46                       Fair
         10          50                   61      52           -12                44                       Fair
         11          50                   60      50           -16                48                       Fair
         12         *9                    61      50           -25                56                       Fair
         13         45                    59      49           -20                40                       Fair
         14         45                    61      50           -17                42                       Fair
         15         50                    66      52           -15                 51                      Fair
         16         50                    69      55           -17                49                       Fair
         17          54                   70      54           -17                56                       Fair
         18          55                   72      54           -18                54                       Fair
         19          53                   74      58           -08                56                       Fdir
         SO          60                   75      61        29-91                 48                       Fair
         91          60                   65      55           -so                36                       Cloudy
         22          55                   63      53           -81                42                       Fair
         S3          54                   62      56           -81                 33                      Showery
         24          50                   63      60           -66                 34                      Showery, thunder
                                                               <
                                                                                                             in the evening
         95          60                   67      55           •63                 36                      Fair
         26          57                   63      56           -78                 30                      Showery
                   N. B. The Barometer-s height                        is   taken at one o-clo«k.

                                  I  241     ]
  XXXIX. A         Geological Description      of the Neighbourhood       of
                    Bristol.     By W. H. Gilby, Esq.
                               To Mr.  Tdloch.
  Sir, — The       paper which I have ventured to transmit to you,-
  contains a geological description of the neighbourhood of Bristol.
  Sdme time after I had commenced my inquiries, I saw for the
  first time Mr. Townsend-s very valuable book " On the Charac
  ter of Moses established for Veracity as an Historian," wherein
  I found interspersed throughout the body of the work much im
  portant information respecting the structure of this quarter.
  Admirable as his descriptions are, it appeared to me that some;
  interesting particulars, having perhaps no immediate relation to
  his conclusions, remained yet to be detailed.         In the paper that
  I have addressed to you, I have endeavoured to supply those
  particulars, and to give a more connected account of the forma
  tions in this quarter ; and should it appear to you to be worthy
  of a place in your Journal, you wiil oblige me by inserting it.
                             I  am,
                                     Very respectfully yours,
  York Crescent, Cliftoo, Bristol,                        W. H. GlLBY.
         September 24, 1814.
       The rocks in this quarter may be divided into those that are
   inclined, and those that lie unconformably in a horizontal posi
   tion upon the tops of the inclined strata.         In the following de
   scription I shall first speak of the inclined strata, and begin with
   the limestone and its accompanying formations, which range
   round the country somewhat in an elliptical form,           I shall then
   speak of the coal-measures which this ellipsis incloses.             The
   horizontal strata will then be treated of ; and I shall, lastly, enu
   merate those minerals which occur partially, or in veins, in the
    preceding formations.
       The rock which forms the most prominent feature in this
   quarter, and gives rise to all the bold and picturesque scenery
   which many parts of this country are remarkable for, is the gray,
    compact, mountain limestone.         Mr. Townsend has very accu
   rately   described  the different localities  of this rock. It ranges
    round Bristol in almost every direction, and forms, in fact, an
.   irregular kind of basin, of which the most northern points are
    the hills about Thorubury.       On the east it is well observed in a
    continuous range at Wickwar and Sodbury ; and in a very bold
    manner at Week, about half way on the upper road to Bath
        Vol. 44. No. 198. Oct. 1814.               Q                    from

242                   A  Geological Description
from Bristol.      It is wanting on the south-east, in the distance
 between Bath and Elm near Mells, where it reappears and
 constitutes the whole of the Mendip Hills, which run east and
 west to the south of Bristol.       On the west it runs in a wide
 ridge which commences about three miles to the north-east
 of Langford, and continues to within about two miles of
 Bristol.    On the north-west it is seen at Clifton and West-
 bury. Independent of this limestone ellipsis there is a sub
 ordinate range which begins from Leigh and Ashton Downs,
 and runs towards the Channel above Belmont, Wraxal, and
 Tickengham.       The inclination of the limestone wherever seen is
 always   at a considerable  angle, being never less than 35°. At
 Week the strata are elevated to an angle of at least 65°. At the
 Mendips near Langford, and on the road near Westbury, the
 dip is seventy ; and in some parts of Blais Castle grounds the
 strata may be said to be completelv vertical.     It is very remark
 able that the direction of the dip varies as we observe it at dif
 ferent parts1 of the basin.    At the north the inclination is to
 wards the south.       On the east, at Sodbury, due west.      On the
 south, at the Mendips, they incline towards the north.          This,
 however, is only to be said of that part of the range which has
 a northern aspect; for that portion of the south part at Cheddar
  Cliffs, and the hills above Wells and Axbridge, are observed to
 incline towards the south.      The Langford road passes along the
 westward ridge, and wherever the dip is seen, it is towards the
 east ; and at Barrow, where there is a large quarry, it is due east.
 There are some places, however, where we find that the inclina
 tion does not conform to this arrangement.       If we diverge from
 the Langford road, and come any where upon the brow of the
 ridge above Brockley, Backwell, or Bourton, we find the dip
 completely altered ; instead of its being as it is on the Langford
 road eastwards, we find it almost due north. This part of the
 range forms, in fact, the southern boundary of the Nailsea coal
 field, which lies between it and the opposite range, passing above
 Wraxal, Belmont and Tickengham, where the dip is always tend
 ing towards the south.        We therefore find the Nailsea coal
 field shut in by two barriers, each dipping towards the other.
 From Clifton to Westbury the limestone sinks towards the south
 east, but about half a mile beyond Westbury the inclination is
 to the north. If we go from this point westward towards King-
 weston Hill and Pinfield Point, we find the same dip to prevail.
 Jt is probable that this variation in the dip is connected with
 some coal formation in the plain below.       I am confirmed in this
 idea by having observed at Patishead along the point the mica
 ceous sandstone or Pennant stone, which is always in this coun
 try an unerring index of coal.
                                                                  The.

                       of the   Neighbourhood     of Bristol,                  243
    The magnitude of the limestone strata is various ; they sel
 dom are less than three feet in thickness, and frequently they
 are observed to be six or seven feet thick.         We sometimes see
 the beds of a black colour, from a deep impregnation of bituminous
 matter, in which case they exhale a foetid smell when rubbed si
 milar to that of sulphuretted hydrogen. It should be remarked,
 that the beds are sometimes very mxich traversed by contem
 poraneous veins of calc spar. It is not uncommon to find these
 veins of great thickness, they then approach to the character of
 true veins.
    In some places we find a highly indurated sandstone of a
 grayish and oftentimes of a reddish colour and splintery fracture
 resting upon and dipping in a conformable direction with the
limestone.      About Clifton it is rather extensively distributed,
forming several hills. Paragon Buildings are built upon             and  it,    it
is  behind this row that the junction of the sandstone and lime
stone can very weil be traced.         York Place also stands upon it,
from which spot        itcontinues and forms the whole of Brandon
 Hill, and much of the space between Brandon Hill and Paragon
Buildings    is  composed of this rock.           We likewise trace             it
 through Mr. Tyndal-s Park, and on Kingsdown.
    In all the above-mentioned places         reposes upon the moun
                                             it
tain limestone, as      isthe case also at Week.           likewise seen
                                                          It   is
at the foot of Almonsbury Hill, in the cross road leading from the
 Gloucester to the Old Passage road, and in several places about
Olverton.       Besides the indurated sandstone, which perhaps
according to the Wernerian nomenclature should be called a
quartzy sandstone, and which, as far as know,   I         only met with
                                                               is
above the limestone, there are two other rocks which occur but
partially, and lie below the limestone in conformably inclined
                                                     a
position — a siliceous pudding-stone and a red sandstone.
    The relation which these rocks bear to the indurated sandstone
and limestone     isbeautifully displayed       by
                                                the section which some
grand convulsion of nature has made of the rocks below Bristol.
If we follow the path on the left side of the river Avon, where
the stratification     isbest observed, we observe these formations
occurring in regular succession.         The first rock that comes in
view after passing the ferry at Rownham,            the indurated sand
                                                     is
stone, which at no great distance ceases, and           observed resting
                                                          is
upon    the  limestone.     The  limestone then   commences    and con
tinues uninterruptedly       for about two miles.      Opposite Cock-s
Folly it   terminates, and then succeeds the pudding-stone, the
matrix of which         a grayish-white sandstone cementing round
                       is
pebbles of quartz.       In some of the beds the gravel         so abun
                                                                    is
dant that the matrix            hardly
                                is      to be  perceived,   and  in other
strata it   is  so thinly distributed that the rock better       deserves
                                     Q   2                             the

                                                                            >
244                  A   Geological    Description
the name of a sandstone than pudding-stone.               From the river
 side the pudding-stone        can be traced crossing the road a little
below Leigh.        It is then for some distance lost on account of
 the cultivated state of the country, but in the hills near Pill and
 St. George-s it is very distinctly seen, and can be followed be
 yond Portbury.        In this route the pudding-stone- is always seen
 dipping    under  the   limestone agreeably to its inclination.
    We now return to the stratification at the river's side. Be
 yond the pudding-stone which continues for about 200 yards,
 we arrive at the red sandstone of a fine friable texture, and
 containing spangles of mica.          We can follow this rock north
 westward from the river, and always see it sinking under the
 pudding-stone.        It is exposed in many places in the space be
 tween Leigh and Portbury, and I have remarked this rock un
 derneath the limestone at Mendip Hills in the path leading
from Langford to Shipham.
    I have been thus particular in describing these formations, as
 they absolutely exhibit a counter part of those that exist in the
 south of Herefordshire, along the skirts of Dean Forest.            I had
lately   an  opportunity    of investigating  the geology    of the   hilly
 country in the neighbourhood of Ross, and could not but be very
 much struck with the almost perfect identity of the series I have
just now described with that near Ross.            The lowest strata of
 which those hills were composed was the red sandstone I have
just been dwelling upon.          Then succeeded a siliceous pudding
consisting of rounded pebbles of quartz, united by a sandstone ce
ment, and above the pudding-stone lay the mountain limestone.
    It is probable that the same stratification obtains in the coun
try about Chepstow, for the mountain limestone is seen to pre
vail there, and I observed that Tintern Abbey is built of the red
sandstone, which I was informed was quarried from the neigh
bourhood.
    Having now fully described the limestone and the relation
which the other inclined strata bear to       it,
                                                I   have next to speak
of the country which the limestone ellipsis incloses.           It    is   al
most entirely an extensive coal formation, in which the coal either
occurs in regular basins, or in veins following each other in quick
succession, without being arranged in any determinate form.
Mr. Townsend has described         a    very beautiful instance of the
first kind    of formation     on  the north-east  side of Bristol, the
outer range of which will be described          by   aline beginning at
Iron Acton, and drawn through Yate, Wapley, Pucklechurch,
Mangotsfield, Hambrock, and Frampton.               This basin   is about
five miles in length and four in breadth, and in every part of its
circumference    1    found the coal and its accompanying           strata
tending    to
            a    common centre.         The Nailsea coal-field  which       is
                                                                 inclosed
                                       I

                   of the Neighbourhood of Bristol.                 245
inclosed by the two ridges of limestone, as described above, is,
according to Mr. Townsend,          another instance of the basin-
shaped formation of coal.        In other parts of the country the
coal does not occur in any regular form.
     Kingwood, from which Bristol lias been so long supplied with
coal, is a tract to the east of Bristol, about four miles broad.
 In this space the coal beds are very numerous, and follew each
other in very quick succession.        I have been informed by se
veral old colliers, that in this district there are upwards of thirty
veins of coal.     A gentleman of my acquaintance told me, that
his estate at Kingwood, in breadth about 1100 yards, contains
twelve veins of coal, four of which are sis feet in thickness.
The beds in general are not of any considerable thickness, and
are always inclined seldom less than 26° or 30", and the pre
vailing dip is to the south, as is also the case with the veins
worked at Bedminster.        It sometimes happens that the veins
are much impaired in quality, and sometimes completely in
tercepted by a loose kind of rubble, but faults of this kind
 are seldom of any considerable extent.           The most remarkable
instance in this district of a fault, that I am aware of, is in some
collieries belonging to the Duke of Beaufort, about two miles on
the Pucklechurch road, where the coal is thrown into a saddle-
shaped form. On one side of the saddle a shaft has been sunk
 which meets with the coal at the depth of 147 fathoms.             The
 strata that accompany     the coal  consist   of  micaceous sandstone
 (Pennant stone), indurated clay, here called duns, and bitu
 minous shale.     The micaceous sandstone is met with most ex
tensively, and occurs in beds of great thickness.        I know of pits
 that are sunk upwards of 20 fathoms through it.              It is very
well exposed in many quarries about Bristol, and is seen to great
 advantage along the bank of the river at Crew-s Hole and Han-
 ham, where it forms high and beautiful cliffs. I shall omit men
 tioning any particulars respecting the collieries at Stowey and
 Farrington near the Mendips, as they have been fully described
 by Mr. Townsend, and by a Mr. Williams, in the xxxth volume
 of the Philosophical Transactions for 1719.
     Having now described the inclined strata, I have next to take
 notice of a class of rocks which is always seen lying horizontally
 upon the tops of the elevated strata.
     In Farey-s Derbyshire and Mr. Townsend-s work above al
 luded to, this series, which is distributed over great part of the
 south of England, is fully detailed.     I shall mention generally the
 places where   in this neighbourhood    the  different members of this  •
  class occur, and the relation they bear to each other.            The
 lowest beds of this arrangement and those which rest imme
 diately upon the inclined rocks are described by Townsend and
                                 Q 3                              others

246                   A   Geological Description
others under the name of red ground, because they are always
covered by red soil, and many of the beds are deeply impregnated
with that colour.      The rocks of the red ground are represented
by Farey as being numerous ; in this quarter, however, they may
very well be reduced to two — a limestone breccia and a cal
careous sandstone.       The breccia consists of angular fragments
of limestone, hornstone, &c. cemented by a calcareous basis.
Wherever it occurs, it is always seen resting immediately upon
the inclined formations.        It is sometimes wanting, and instead
of it we find the calcareous sandstone, which is very well seen at
 Stapleton, where it rests immediately upon the Pennant stone ;
it has also been cut through in making the new course of the
river. -We sometimes meet with the breccia and calcareous
sandstone together, as on Clifton Down near the turnpike, and
 among the Mendip Hills in the path leading from Langford to
 Shipham.       Of the two formations the breccia is always the
lowest ; the best examples of this bed are about Pill and Port-
bury, where it is superimposed upon the red sandstone•
    Above the beds of the red ground, we have what is provin-
 cially termed lya*t which is a limestone sometimes of a grayish,
 but more commonly of a blueish hue and dull compact fracture.
 It is a peculiarity in this rock to occur in strata of about a foot
 in thickness, which have generally interposing seams of clay or
 marl.    The lyas has extensive localities in this quarter.          It is
 quarried   in many places   in  the tract between   Bristol and  Dundry,
 on the road to Bath, and in many parts of Kingwood ; we see it
 abundantly on the Gloucester road.           About Wells it rests upon
 the red ground, and at Aust Cliff it is situated upon claystone,
 probably one of the upper beds of the red ground.                I could
 readily multiply   these  instances,  but  I believe these  will be suffi
 cient to show its general disposition in this quarter.
    The next formation is the inferior oolite, a variety of the Bath
 freestone.    1 have no where viewed this rock in situ, except at
 Dundry Hill, where we have a favourable example of it. In
-walking from the village of Bedminster to the top of Dundry
 Hill we can trace most beautifully the relation of the three for
 mations just now described.         About Bedminster and at the sides
 of the new river we have the calcareous sandstone; between
 Bedminster and the Hill the lyas every where comes into view,
 and even forms the lower part of the hill.         On the top near the
 church and among the caves the inferior oolite is well displayed.
  The next uiember of the series in this district is the Bath free
 stone, or great ooiite, which surrounds Bath in almost every
 direction.    There are also large quarries of it about three
 miles beyond Sodbury, near the Cross Keys.           Of the series which
 lie next in succession, I hare no where seen any examples in the
                                                                   country

                    of the Neighbourhood of Bristol.               247
 country which has been the subject of my examination.           I am
 informed,    however,   that the chalk which   lies above  the great
 oolite begins to appear a short distance beyond Bath.
    I have now to treat of those minerals which are found partially
 or in veins in the several formations I have described above.
    Hornsione or Petrosilex.        This mineral I have found in
 distinct beds on the top of a hill above Ashton, wh^re it rests
upon the indurated sandstone, and is of a red colour from a deep
impregnation of iron, and possesses an uneven fracture.      At Sod-
bury this rock is seen upon entering the town, where it lies in
distinct strata upon limestone.
    Quartz crystals of great beauty and rich variety of colour oc
 cur in veins of clay ironstone traversing the- limestone.        The
 crystal is commonly a six-sided pyramid, which is very frequently
 double.
    Celesline or sulphat of stroniit.es is contained in veins in the
claystone at Aust Passage, and it is from hence that the finest
 and best crystallized specimens are obtained.      It hasbeeu found
 in other situations massive and radiated.
    Haematite.     Good specimens are obtained from veins in lime
 stone and Pennant stone.
     Gypsum, both massive and fibrous and in the state of selenite,
 occurs at Aust Cliff, in thin seams in the red claystone lying be
low the lyas.
    Sulphate oflarytes. I found crystallized specimens of this
.fossil in masses of limestone that had been quarried near Harp-
 tree.
    Calamine and Galena.        These minerals have been found in
 thin seams in the limestone of Durdham Down, and at Cleve-
 den.     The brass works at Bristol are chiefly supplied with ca
 lamine from Shipham, a village among the Mendip Hills, where
 it occurs in beds beneath the limestone breccia.
    Manganese has been mentioned- by Townsend, as being p^Or
 cured from the Mendips.
    Compact felspar .      Upon visiting some time ago the Druidical
 stones at Staunton      Drew, I was very much surprised to find
them composed of rocks which I was perfectly unaware had any
existence in this vicinity — a siliceous breccia and compact fel
 spar.    In returning a short time since from an excursion among
 the Mendip Hills, I passed through the village of Harptree,
 and I was very much struck by observing about half a mile on,
 this side Harptree, masses of compact felspar exactly resembling
 the blocks at Staunton Drew, which had been brought together
 for the purpose of repairing the highway.. All the information
 I could learn respecting them, was, that they were taken from
                                Q 4                                the

248        On the variable miction     of the Electric Column.
the adjoining fields, where I saw large slabs of them lying upon
the surface, having been turned up by the plough.              The culti
vated state of the country prevented further examination : other
wise I have little doubt that the compact felspar would be found
in situ, for the masses here were in nothing different as to comr
position from the blocks at Staunton Drew.
    Qrocmic Remains.         After the very elaborate manner in which
Mr.   Townsend      has  treated  this subject, I should only be repeat
ing his observations were I to attempt to add any thing. There
                                                                          -
js, however, one curious fact which I believe, he has failed to
mention.       It is, that although we fmd the fossilized remains of
the encrinus so extensively distributed in the mountain lime
 stone, and a prodigious abundance of shells chiefly anomice and
pectens ; yet in the indurated sandstone lying upon, and the other
 formations below the limestone, this sort of petrifactions, as far
as I can observe, does not appear.            I had once or twice seen in
 cabinets at Bristol, specimens of a fine-grained friable red sand
 stone abounding in delicate impressions of a spinous anomia,
 and I was quite at a loss to know where this substance occurred,
till I found it under York Place, apparently filling fissures in the
 indurated sandstone.         A friend of mine the other day sent me
 a specimen of indurated sandstone containing the impression of
 the bark of a pine, which is the only instance of that kind of
  stone (as far as I know) containing in its substance any thing
 like an organic remain.
        XL. On      the variable Action     of the Electric Column.
                          By Mr. J.      A.  Deluc.
                               To  Mr. Tilloch.
          Y our      number for June last contains a paper of Mr.
  Ronalds's,   which could not but interest me, as it relates to the
  variable action of the electrie column.          This variableness de
  pends on many causes, with respect to one of which we do not
  agree, and it will be the object of this paper.
     I have found in my experiments, that an increase of moisture
  did increase the action of the column.          Mr. Ronalds is of a dif
  ferent opinion ; but as he describes the experiments from which           ,
  he concludes that moisture has a very little effect on that ac
  tion, it will be easy for me to show that this disagreement be
  tween us results from a mistake on his part, and that his experi
  ments, though very ingenious, according to his idea of the sub
  ject, are quite dissimilar to those whence I had derived my con
  clusion.
                                                                      One

            On the variable Action       of the Electric     Column.           249
    Gne single circumstance will show that Mr. Ronalds did not
understand my meaning.            I could not refer but to the column
which 1 .had described, of which an essential circumstance                      is,
that  it   isin communicatien with the outside air, and thus in--
fiuenced    by its degree   of  moisture    whereas Mr. Ronalds's ex
                                             ;
periments have been made with one of Mr. Singer's columns
of 1000 groupes inclosed in          a glass tube: that tube therefore
precluding    the  action  of  the  external  air, the inclosed column
cannot   be affected    by its changing degree        moisture.
                                                     of            I   do not
 doubt that, when Mr. Ronalds shall consider that difference be
tween our experiments, he will judge that the results which he
relates in his paper, though interesting in themselves, cannot be
opposed to mine        :butI    must come to particulars, because they
will contribute to further explanation of this new physical ap
                       a
 paratus.
    The action of Mr. Ronalds's column was indicated                       by
                                                                           the
number, in given time, of the sinkings of the gold-leaves in an
                 a
 electrometer      in his second experiment made under
                   :                                              a glass re
 ceiver, the strikings having been five in the beginning, while the
 hygrometer was 41", and the thermometer 53|, the sinkings
 were reduced to three, when the hygrometer ascended to 41£,
and the thermometer descended to 53° which experiment ap
                                                 :
pears to favour Mr. Ronalds's idea, that the increase of moisture
 rather lessens than increases the action of the column.               But m
 this experiment the column being inclosed in the glass tube, the
 increase of moisture took place on the surface of the latter, which
 produced an increase of conductive faculty for the electric fluid
 on that surface, which lessening the difference of electric state of
 its extremities, diminished consequently its effect on the electro
  meter.
    The third experiment, in which the room was gradually heated,
 shows  a case in which    I   had partly made      mistake, pointed out
                                                     a
 to me      by Mr. Singer.      In one of my experiments, when the
 sun-rays fell on my column, the number of sinkings sensibly
 increased, and returned gradually to their former number when
 the sun-rays cease.d to fall on     it  this effect
                                         :              attributed entirely
                                                         I
to the action of the sun-rays themselves             but Mr. Singer con
                                                     ;
 ceived that      was only the effect of heat thus increased
                 it                                                        the
                                                                           in
 column.    I   considered this explanation as deserving „to be sub
mitted to direct experiments         ;I   have since long observed the
column under this point of view, and found that the increase of
 heat had      great influence to increase the number of strikings.
            is a
 But this      not an effect so simple as       thought
                                                 I           itat first    for,
                                                                           ;
with the same increase of heat, have found great differences in
                                      I
the increase of the correspondent number of strikings which            ;
                                                                      circum

250        On the varialh Action            of the Electric Column.
circumstance I continue to think must be owing to the difference
in the electrical state of the ambient air ; and thus the column
is, asI  had found      in my first observations, an aerial electro
                        it
scope,  which  property   Mr. Ronalds had also surmised.          But too
many   causes interfere  with  that  state  of  the  ambient   air,  to di
stinguish that  effect with   certainty;   and      will
                                                    it   require    longer
                                                                      a
study of the variations of the effects by different circumstances,
in order to assign the true influence of each of them.
    Mr. Ronalds' experiment
                   s                    7  confirmation of those which
                                            is
                                            a
I  had described in paper published in the Philosophical Trans
                        a
actions of the Royal Society for 1791.               These experiments
were made in order to show the cause of a dissentiment between
M. de Saussure and myself on the point of extreme moisture,
which had prescribed to be taken in water itself the reason
      I                                                      ;
of which stated in my first paper on the Hygrometer, published
           I
in the Philosophical Transactions for 1774. The construction
of M. de Saussure-s hygrometer did not permit to dip                     in
                                                                          it
water, because the index was in the lower part of the frame,
and the hair of which          formed, could not be dipped in water
                              it   is
without the whole instrument, its index and scale, being im
mersed into water: he therefore fixed its point of extreme mois
ture under     receiver inverted on
               a                         dish full of water.
                                             a
    Unluckily this circumstance did not permit M. de Saussure to
discover the defect of the hair and of all the threads of fibrous
substances, which      to relent successively their lengthening when
                        is
moisture increases, and even at last to grow shorter, more or less
according to their nature, when moisture approaches to its ex
 treme;   which circumstance excludes all the threads from             true
                                                                          a
hygrometer.      But my hygrometer consisting of a slip of whale-
lone cut across the fibres,   not subject to that defect
                                   is                        lengthens
                                                             ;   it
up   to the  point  of extreme   moisture  taken  in  water,  and with
it
I     made the same experiment under the receiver inverted on
water ;   and thus     found the important law of hygrology, that
                        1
the utmost o^iantity of evaporated water under such            receiver
                                                                  a
does not produce extreme moisture in the inclosed space, when
the degree of heat        sensibly above 32
                             is                  and that
                                                    ;           recedes
                                                                  it
from  it  in proportion as the heat increases.       Mr. Ronalds ha*
found the same effect in his experiment            for, as long as the
                                                    7
                                                    ;
temperature was 55, which lasted         long while, the hygrometer
                                              a
never attained a point higher than 93.
    In the same experiment under the receiver inverted over water,.
 M.Ronalds found the number of slrikings gradually to decrease,
from 4-5 in    a minute even to no striking.      am not surprised at
                                                     I
 this effect, as   itproceeds from the cause which        have already
                                                            I
indicated  ;  for the glass tube in which the column was inclosed
                                                                          being

          On the variable Action   of the Electric Column.        251
4te-mg more and more covered      with moisture, its surface was at
last become such a conductor      of the electric fluid from the posi
tive to the negative end, that it became neutral.
      The last experiments of Mr. Ronalds would have surely recon
 ciled our opinions on this subject, had they been made on pur
pose for its investigation ; being made with a column similar to
 mine, composed of 800 groupes, supported between three glass
 pillars covered with sealing-wax ; but these experiments were
 made for a different purpose.         He placed an hygrometer, a
 thermometer,     and  an electrometer  under a receiver inverted over
 mercury, in order to introduce successively an acid and an alkali,
 and to observe the degree of dryness they would produce : with
 the acid, the hygrometer descended from 464 to 29| by the
 temperature 59|; having then removed the acid and substi
 tuted potash, in the course of a day, it brought the hygrometer
 to 24.
      These experiments, and the following, in which Mr. Ronalds
 made moisture increase under the receiver by introducing in it
  a moistened card, were made with the view of trying the effect
 of more or less moisture for increasing the action of the column,
 shown by the number of strikings of the gold-leaf in the electro
  meter in a given time, compared with the effects of the changes
 of heat : they certainly, prove that the increase of heal acce
  lerates the strikings, as Mr. Singer had supposed ; but they show
  at the same time, what small quantity of evaporated water in
  a given space, produces in it extreme moisture, and that the in
  crease of heat with the same quantity of water, tends to di
  minish moisture.
      This I know by my own experiments, which are the object of
 my paper in volume xxxiii. of Mr. Nicholson-s Philosophical
  Journal, giving an account of two series of experiments, agreeing
 /with each other, by which I determine the number of grains of
 water which can remain in the state of vapour in the space of
   one cubic foot, by each degree of my hygrometer and of the
 thermometer.       It may be seen in the table of the results, that
  seven grains of water evaporated in one cubic foot, by the tem
   perature of 60, brought the hygrometer to 96-6 degrees, and
   that then the smallest diminution of heat caused a deposit of
  water on the sides of the vessel.    This shows what small quanti
   ties of evaporated ivater act on the hygrometer in all its de
   grees ; an important circumstance to be attended to in meteoro
  logical systems ; a subject to which I shall return.
       The above experiments made with the greatest care in a glass
 .vessel, which was air-tight,     show that such experiments made
 <finder a receiver are more difficult than is commonly imagined,
                                                                   and

252          On the variable Action of   the  Electric Column.
and that they cannot be opposed to my experiments made in
open air, which demonstrate that the action of the column is
increased by the increase of moisture, and diminished by dry
ness.       But a more direct proof of it is related in the same Phi
losophical Journal of Mr. Nicholson, for August 1810, by some
experiments which I have made with my late very ingenious
friend Dr. Lind, for ascertaining immediately the influence of
moisture on the action of the column.
     In this experiment all the parts of a column were first sepa
rately laid on the hearth of a chimney before a great fire, so that
the pieces of paper were almost singed. In that state we mounted
the column, and it did not affect the gold-leaf electrometer.
We then dismounted again that column, and laid also the se
parate pieces on a table in my room, in which the hygrometer
was above 40°. When they had thus remained one hour, we re
mounted the column, and it acted on the gold-leaves as it did
before the papers had been so thoroughly dried by a great heat.
     This I think to be a direct fact proving that a certain degree
 of moisture in the column is indispensable for its conductive fa
 culty, the source of all its effects. I have found in all my ob
 servations, that within certain limits an increase of moisture in
 creases the action of the column ; but, whereas the effect of the
 increase of heat is immediately perceived, as it easily penetrates
 the column, that of the increase of moisture is very slow, be
  cause, beginning at the edge of the papers on the outside, it
 very slowly propagates in the internal parts of the column ; a
 circumstance of which Mr. Ronalds has not been aware, espe
  cially by his column being inclosed in a glass tube.
      But the column being a very new apparatus, it requires some
 time and a greater number of observers to follow all the views it
 opens in the terrestrial phaenomena,        especially in those of the
 atmosphere which constitute meteorology.           This was my general
 conclusion in a paper published in volume xxxiii. of Mr. Nichol
 son's Philosophical Journal, under this title: "On Hygrology
  and Hygrometry, and their Connexion with the Phaenomena ob
  served in the Atmosphere."          There I demonstrated that im
 portant fact, not only in meteorology, but in natural philosophy,
  that rain does not proceed from a quantity of aqueous vapour
  or moisture existing at any time in any portion of the atmo
  sphere; that it must proceed from the decomposition of the
  atmospheric air itself, from which decomposition more or less
   complete result all the meteors, lightnings, thunder, hail, and
  other atmospherie appearances.
       I have been thus particular in the examination of Mr. Ronalds's
   ppinions, as he has shown much ingenuity in his experiments,
 .    .                                                             and

                 On the  Fall of Stones from   the Clouds.            253
and because, having had the opportunity of being personally ac
 quainted with him, I agree with the judgement of Mr. Singer,
in the opening of the same paper, that Mr. Ronalds " is an elec
trician of great promise, and whose scrupulous attention to the
 essentials of accurate experimental inquiry has afforded me
 pleasure to observe."
                         I am, sir,
                               Your most obedient servant,
 Windsor, September 1314.                                J,  A. DELUC,
 XXXVI.       Observations on the Fall of Stones     from the Clouds t
             or Aerolites.    By M. Marcel de        Serres.
                         [Concluded  from p. 224.]
The       ignited meteors improperly. called falling stars, do not
appear to differ from the globes just mentioned.             Thus, these
meteors leave behind- them gelatinous masses falsely attributed
to birds of prey, since they contain nothing which announces an
animal origin.       To conclude: if igneous globes like falling stars
do not always leave similar residues, this is owing to their being
composed of entirely combustible bodies, and their being conse
quently entirely consumed before they reach the ground.               We
may    refer  to this kind  of  phaenomenon   the  globe    of fire which
according to Geoffroy burst in the Place du Quesnoy, on the 4th
of January 1717, that which was observed in America in 1800,
and in the county of Suffolk in 1 802.
    To these globes of fire must certainly be referred the showers
of fire which can only be distinguished from them by their
greater division, whereas in the fire balls the same substance is
concentrated in one and the same body. A similar shower made
great ravages in Germany in the year 823, and burnt up whole
villages.     Another shower of the same kind fell in 1571, in the
Grand Duchy of Hesse : after a dreadful explosion, it flowed
through the streets, without however causing the destruction of
the houses.       A third shower of fire took place in 1678 at Sach-
sen-Hausen,      and  the inflamed matter burnt half an hour in the
streets before it was extinguished.       Finally, that which fell over
the city of Brunswick in 1/21 was so violent that they attempted
in vain to extinguish it by means of water.
    It would appear therefore that the difference remarked be
tween showers of fire and those of an oily substance which have
been seen a great many times, is founded on the circumstance
of the substance of the former being in a state of phosphore
scence, which is not the case in the latter.       After these singular
showers come those whose nature is mucilaginous, and which
                                                               accordfng

254            On the   Fall of Stones from    the Clouds.
 according to Muschenbroeck, fell in Ireland in 1695.          As che
 mistry shows that mucilage closely approaches to the nature of
 sugar and honey, we ought to refer to these same phaenomena
 the honey dews, as they are called, which it is very difficult to
 acknowledge as an excretion of plants, as some have asserted.
 Silberschlag collected on paper the matter which was left by
 one of these falls of dew, and he found it to be a thick and vis
 cous liquid.    One of these showers of dew took place at Ulm
 so recently as 1802, and in so much abundance that every thing
 exposed to it, as well the surface of stagnant waters and foun
 tains, was covered with a coating of it.
    It may perhaps be presumed- that the matter which produces
 globes of fire falls in the form of rain on some occasions, and in
 the same way that the aerolites themselves are precipitated in
 very minute divisions, in showers of sulphur, sand, and those:
falsely called showers of blood *.
    As to showers of fire and brimstone f, a vegetable origin ha*
been assigned to them, although facts do not warrant this ex
planation.     Thus the shower of brimstone which fell at Copen
hagen in 1646, fell at the same time with a strong rain, while
the air was infected with a smell of sulphur, and the sulphur col
lected by Wormius and some other men of science had absolutely
the same properties with that which is generally extracted from
minerals.     A shower of the same kind also took place at Copen
hagen   in 1665, and that after a very violent storm.      The matter
which it brought with       it,
                              when thrown into the fire, emitted a
strong smell of sulphur, and with the spirit of turpentine itformeii
a kind of balsam of sulphur.        Lastly, in 1801, the rain which
fell at Rastadt was so sulphurous that       it was used to prepare
matches with.         In general the substance mixed with these
showers resembles much more the balsam of sulphur than sulphur
itself: this was observed at Chatillon sur Seine, where the rain
left very fetid, thick, and viscous residue
      a                                           J,and finally in Ire
land in 1695, where the matter deposited presented deep yel  a
low colour, with a disagreeable smell and a gluey consistence         §.
This matter had moreover the property of being deliquescent in
the air, and of drying    by the action of caloric.   Similar showers
have also fallen in the duchy of Mansfield in 1658, and at
Brunswick in 1721.
  It   isequally absurd to consider the mineral showers as of
  * fee book   ii. chap. 56, of Pliny's History of the World. Memoirs of
-Ihe Academy   of Inscriptions for 1717. Lemain's Antiquities of Orleans.
 t  Moses, Spangenberg, Olaus Wormius, Siegesbeck, and after them
Muschenbroeck, hare spoken of these showers of sulphur. See tome ii.
of Muschenbroeck's Elements of Physics.
  1 Hist. Nat. de I'Air, by Richard, tome v.
                                                                 animal

                   On the  Fall 0/ Stones from        the Clouds.         254
animal origin, because some of them have presented something
like the excretions of butterflies.          Thus we can scarcely doubt of
the red mineral showers which fell in Westphalia in 1543 *, at                  >'
Lowen in 1560, and at Embden in 1571. The latter was sa
extensive, that all the bodies exposed to the air were dyed red to
the circumference of ten or twelve leagues. It is also stated that
in the year 1653, in Zealand, a similar rain stained every thing
red, and finally at Brussells in 1646 a violent rain suddenly
fell, when all the waters were died red f. This rain had at first
a purple colour, which gradually became yellow ; its taste was>
sowerish, nearly like that of Spa water, which seems to indicate
the presence of carbonate of iron, a substance which doubtless
forms the essential part of it.           This rain, as well as that which
fell at Ulm in 1755,       was   chemically examined
     About the same time, viz. the end of 1755, similar showers
fell in Russia, Suabia, near the Lake of Constance, and at
 Lucarno in Upper Italy. The sky was darkened during this rain
 at Lucarno ; the atmosphere became quite red before it came
on, and the residue left by it was reddish with an earthy appear
 ance.      This rain was almost as thick and heavy as snow, as well
 as that which fell in the mountains of Placentia on the 17th of
 January 1810. This last, as observed by a great number of per
 sons, seemed white at first, then became red after some claps of
 thunder, and fmally became white again.                  In certain places it
 was a flesh colour, whereas in others it was of a ver^ deep red ;
 but it always preserved its eolour after having been melted-: this
 fact seems to prove that it is upon slender grounds that the colour
of these showers has been ascribed to a cat-s eye substance like
 mica, as some have asserted.
      There are too many testimonies in favour of showers of sand
 having fallen to entitle us to deny them.               One was observed at
 Bagdad      in 930  §,  and  long   before  it fell the  sky was darkened by
     * Uber Wunder-regen.      Ulm 1755. This work contains a detailed his
tory of all the similar showers at that time known. We there also find
  analyses of these showers.
     t This water when collected had a sour taste nearly like that of Spa
  water.    A little vinegar poured into it produced a thick red precipitate.
  When kept some time in well stopped bottles, the water became turbid of
  itself, and there was precipitated a viscous matter of a purple colour with
  some whitish streaks.     On distilling this water we obtained a liquor of a
  sour and bitter taste.    The taste and smell of the residue were like those
  of turf, which seemed to indicate the existence of organic matter. This rain
  lasted eight hours: the red colour was very deep when it began to fall,
  but afterwards it became clearer.
     % This rain exhibited results analogous to those of the rain which fell at
  Brussells in 1640. The taste of the water was always sourish. The dark
  or black residue was partly attractable by the magnet, which proves the
  existence of iron,    Vide Ulicr Wunder-regen, Ulm 3755.
      § Quatremere, M.-moires sur I-Egype.

256           On    the   Fall of Stones from           the Clouds.
a red cloud, from which an immense quantity of reddish sand
was precipitated, completely different from the sands which ex
ist in that country.      Some authors have regarded this sand as
a ferruginous oxide.       Whatever may be the case, the reality of
this phaenomenon is equallv constant with that of the ferruginous
rain observed in the Atlantic Sea in 171_9* at 45° lat. and
32B long- at a distance of five or six leagues from the mainland.
 This shower, which was preceded by a very strong light, lasted
upwards of nine hours, without the air being disturbed f.
    The different kinds of residues or of precipitates mentioned,
are new proofs of the atmospheric origin of aerolites.         In fact,
it is impossible, and perhaps even absurd, to ascribe all those
showers and globes of fire to the volcanic eruptions of the moon,
or to portions of planets.       If therefore we are obliged to assign
 to them an atmospheric origin, we can scarcely refrain from
 doiiig the same with respect to aerolites ; since these meteors,
whatever may be their name, pass so insensibly from the one to
 the other, and resemble each other so closely that the origin
 ascribed to the former of these phaenomena cannot be withheld
 from the latter.
     In short, the difficulties of which we have given a succinct
 account had been long felt ; and if an atmospheric origin has
 not been universally assigned to aerolites as the most probable,
 it is because some very specious objections occurred to this
 opinion.     We must confess that the formation and fall of aero
 lites is a phaenomenon so singular, and so different from all those
 whose origin we can trace, that we are always more likely to
 attain the truth by attacking a theory which endeavours to ac
 count for    it,
                than         by
                           defending that which seems to have most
probability.
   The strongest objection which has been brought against the
atmospheric origin of aerolites, that which rests on their com
pactness and gravity, shows how difficult        to conceive the it   is
formation in the atmosphere of bodies so heavy and large. How
is    possible,
     it          may be asked, that particles much heavier than
                    it
the air can rise into the higher regions where meteorolites ap
pear, and that metallic particles thus vaporized should remain
suspended in thet atmosphere until they have assumed the form
of balls, or     mass of
                    a       certain volume
                                      a       We may however ?
remark on this head, that the particles which compose the balls
of fire, and which no person has ever said came from the moon,
     * Hist. Nat. de      I'Air,   by Richard,   tome   v.   Lithologie             Atmosphe^igue
 by   Izam.
 t  Pere Feuillee exhibited specimens of this and *to the Academy of
                                                             s
Sciences. As     was similar to that of an adjoining river,
                   it                                       was supposed       it
to have been carried up by     water spout.
                                     a
                                                                                            must
                                                                               '
                                                                           .

                  On the Pall   of Stones from     the Clouds.          257
 milst have been also vaporized to be afterwards concentrated
 into masses of gelatine, and sometimes of a very considerable
 size.    We may particularly cite as a proof the gelatinous mass
 Which fell near Groepzig in Saxony> the extent of which was
 upwards of five feet and as large as the human body ; for it is
 not less difficult to admit that these balls may be formed in the
 air than the aerolites themselves.        If we endeavour to combine
 all  these facts, we shall be inclined to think that a kind of for
 mation of metals takes place in the air, in the same way as we
 see plants and organic bodies in general have the faculty of
 changing the nature of the substances which they absorb*.                It
is well known that hydrogen gasf can at a certain temperature
Volatilize some metals ; but it is scarcely possible that this gas
can give the form of vapours to the metallic particles of aerolites,
since it is found in the atmosphere in an unappreciable quantity
only. Besides, hydrogen will never' vaporize the nickel, the iron, or
 the various earthy substances which enter into the composition
of those stones.        Nor can heat give the form of vapours to
those substances ; for in that case it would be very difficult to
conceive their composition, which is in general nearly identical.
 Finally, how could vapours which are raised into the air so ar
 range themselves as to form such a compound mixture ? We
 may add, that the regular form of the metallic particles seems
to indicate a Isind of fusion, which does not agree with their
feeble degree of oxidation, as M. ProUst iias remarked.
     Admitting that during the ignition of the metallic nucleus all
these metallic parts are formed, we can then imagine the small
extent of the nucleus in comparison with the immense size of
the ball of fire from which it comes.           In fact, the metallic nu
cleus is nothing else but the residue, or as it were the caput
tnortuum remaining after the great burning, and the gluey mat*
   * We may see the experiments which have been made on the formation
of metals and earths, in plants cultivated in sulphur and charcoal, and
twice watered with distilled water: 1st, In the Memoir by Schrader, which
gained the prize from the Berlin Academy, and an extract from it in the
Second volume of Gehlen's Chemical Journal.          2d, In the Memoir by
Crell, entitled PericulaGenesin Carbunis puri, quem vocanh,£fC. inPlantis
xraetantibus investigantia.  This memoir was read to the Society of Got-
tiugen, and an extract of it was published in the Journal de Midecine of.
Salzburg, 8th April 1811.    The experiments of Crell and Schrader have
been made with the most scrupulous precision.
   t Arsenic unites with gaseous hydrogen, as first observed by Scheelet
Potassium is dissolved in hydrogen — a current of hydrogen or azotic gas
determines the volatilization of sodium. Ritter has even advanced that
a great number of metals may be combined with hydrogen gas by the ac
tion of a strong Galvanic pile; but this is not proved. — Gilbert's Annals.
We also read with advantage the observations of Corradori as printed in
Brugnatelli's Joumal.
    Vol. 44. No. 198. Oct. 1814.                  R                     ter

258            On  the Fall of Stones from the Clouds.
ter like pitch, observed around certain aerolites, must be consi*
dered as parts which have not been inflamed.
                                                   -
                                                       If the substance*
of which the balls of fire are composed, which precede the fall
of aerolites, were not very combustible, these balls would not be
of great extent, nor would the ignition be of long duration. The
meteorolites themselves do not contain any very inflammable
substances, since they have been burnt before their fall. We also
add, that the phosphate of iron sometimes covers aerolites, as io
the case of that which fell in Russia in 1807.           It must also be
observed, that nothing is wanting in the slimy ores of iron, but
nickel, to resemble in point of composition atmospheric stones,
as M. Vauquelin has remarked*.          As these ores are almost al
ways formed in the midst of marshes, we may in some measure
thereby see the slow formation of aerolites.         In fact, what we
have already said, shows wherefore in several cases cloudy wea
ther precedes the fall of the stones ; for the cloud contains all
the substances of which they are formed, and in this sense the
phaenomenon may to a certain extent be compared with the so
lution of salts.
    It seems, therefore, that in considering the force which sus*-
tains the balls of fire as resulting from the inflammation or for*
mation of vapours, we do not admit a rash hypothesis.             In fact,
in all cases where these balls burn with little violence, the mat*
ter of which they are composed soon falls, while it reascendi
the instant the inflammation becomes brisker.            This is evident,
from the effects of a fusee, in which the power of ignition raise*
and even supports a great weight.          This power also exercise!
its action on aerolites ; and as it is opposed to gravity, it oblige*
the stone to follow a mean direction between the two impulses
which are impressed upon it.          Observations also show that
aerolites fall in proportion as the fire dies away, and that whenj
as at Connecticut, the burning increases and explosions tak#
place, the stone ascends and rises.
    From these facts we may conceive why all these phaeno*
tnena are frequent in the hottest months and so rare in winter,
and wherefore they appear in the evening frequently accom*
panied by storms.      The causes of these phaenomena, in appear
ance so remote, have nevertheless some approximation : thus
fain is nothing but the precipitation of the water which is con
tinually rising into the air ; and aerolites probably only depend
on the precipitation of an infmity of substances which are inces
santly evaporating, and the reaction of which upon each other
                                                                 '
way form new combinations.         This hypothesis will not appear
 gratuitous, if we pay attention to the immense quantity of com»
           • Anngtet
                     du Museum d'Hitt< JT#f. tome »iii, p. 459.
                                                                   pound

        >           Ore the  Fall of Stones from       the Clouds.           259
 pound substances which organic bodies, stagnant waters, and all
 bodies while under decomposition, exhale without ceasing, and
 which are lost in the air without our knowing any thing as to
what they become.             It is therefore fair to inquire what are the
 methods resorted to by nature to counterbalance this perpetual
evaporation, and to purify the atmosphere from all these volati
lized substances.          In fact, it is probable that nature employs
other methods of purifying the air, and probably the organic
bodies are the most powerful to which she resorts.                  The plants
in particular seem intrusted with this office : it seems even that
they absorb mucilaginous substances, which, as demonstrated by                    -
Messrs. Dupuytren, Thenard, and Moscati, exist in great abund
ance in the air.         Vegetables feed upon it; and this cause, with,
several others, makes us conceive how it is possible that plants
when put into substances incapable of furnishing their alimentary
juices nevertheless grow and vegetate.
     Such are the principal proofs, or rather the most constant
facts, which render probable the hypothesis of aerolites being
formed in our atmosphere.                \Ve may even go the length of
saying    that   these   proofs  are strong enough to entitle the matter
to be still further mvestigated : and we are far from thinking with
 M. Bigot de Morogues in his recent book, that it is rash to con
sider this supposition as probable.                 We confess with equal
frankness, that the hypothesis of which we have given an account,
is liable to many and strong objections* ; but is it clearly de
monstrated, as M. Bigot de Morogues                    advances perhaps too
gratuitously, that aerolites       have   once   been  small celestial bodies ?
If this opinion, which has been hazarded by the most eminent
geometricians, was demonstrated, certainly it would be absurd
to come forward with suppositions to explain a fact so well as
certained.        We do not think, however, we have fallen into an
absurdity     of   this kind ; for in all the explanatipns hitherto given
of the most singular phaenomena, there never was the slightest
evidence which follows a demonstration.
     What we have said of M. Bigot de Morogues does not impugn
the general usefulness of his work, which is besides the most
recent we have on the subject of aerolites.                   We could have
    * One of    the strongest objections to the hypothesis of the formation of
 aerolites in the terrestrial regions is the total absence of oxygen in the stone
which fell at Lissa, and which has been analysed by KJaproth. It is in fact
 singular, that the molecules of iron and martial pyrites should have re
 sisted a short inflammation without bpginning to oxidate.          But in other
 aerolites, like that which fell at Alais, the charcoal which they contain,
 burns instantly, and the silex obtained from it does not go into a jelly as
in other meteoroliteb ; which proves that they have not undergone a great
 degree of heat. This last fact is not very favourable to the idea of aero
 lites being darted from volcanoes in the moon.
                                      R   2                               wished

260             On the   Fall of Stones from the    Ckuis,
wished, however, that the author had contrived to make us a little
fnore acquainted with the opinions of foreign writers on the sub
ject of aerolites, particularly the English and Germans.                He
•eems to us to have hit upon a happy idea, in the division of his
 work into sections, which refer to the aera at which such and
»"uch opinions prevailed.       Thus, he shows us how much down to
 the sixth aera the public opinion varied as to the reality of the
phaenomenon of aerolites, and how much in early times th*
marvellous accounts of the falls of stones were exaggerated by
Superstition, frequently becoming religious and accredited my-
•teries.    When the sciences began once more to flourish, theit
followers were so much prejudiced against phaenomena which
 »eemed to them so much at variance with the laws of nature,
that f.hey disdain to pay any attention to them ; whereas th»
historians of that time have recorded a fact of the kind, of which
the Emperor Maximilian was an eye witness*.              But at a period
when every thing which could not be accounted for by reason
passed for an invention of superstition, the learned sought to
annihilate by specious reasoning, the reality of a fact which the
authority of ages could not make them believe, because they
could not conceive it.        Nevertheless, in the midst of those dis*
putes, which the great name of Gassendi          f could not terminate,
there fell a great quantity of stones at Luce in 1768, in the very
heart of France ; and notwithstandmg this fact, the evidence-
of which is indisputable, the Academy of Sciences persisted ii>
regarding it as one of those popular prejudices which were un*
worthy the notice of men of science.         New falls of stones which-
took place in India attracted the attention of the learned, but
still without triumphing over prejudice ; and it required no les*
than the great quantity of aerolites which fell at l-Aigle, and at
the very gates of Paris, to convince every one finally of the reality
of this singular phaenomenon.           From the above time (1803)
observations have been so much multiplied, that there is nft
 fact at present better supported.       This phaenomenon is even so
 common, and so frequent, that on seeing it recur at periods so
near each other, we are still more inclined to regard them as
 formed in our atmosphere.           However the case\ may be; it if
easy to perceive, from the rapid sketch which we have drawn,
that the history of aerolites is connected with that of our error*
 and our prejudices, and that it is even interwoven with the hi»»
 tpry of the world.
    * On the 7th of November    1499, near Ensisheim, on aerolite fell nea»
 this prince at the moment when at the head of his army he was about to
 give battle to the French army.
    t Gassendi gave an account of the aerolite which fell on the 27th of
 November 1627 on Mouut Vaisor in Provence.-
                                                               XLII.    Op

                                   C   261    ]
XL! I.     On the Affections of Light transmitted through cry
     stallized Bodies.        By David Brewster, LL.D. F.R.S.
     Edm. and F.S.A. Edin.               In a Letter to Sir Humphrt
     Davy,     LL.D. F.R.S*
 Dear Sir, — In a former paperf on "Some Properties of
 Light," which I took the liberty of addressing to you, and which
^he Royal Society honoured with a place in their Transactions,
 I attempted to give a brief abstract of a set of experiments on
 the Properties of transparent Bodies in refracting, dispersing,
 and polarising the Rays of Light.              An account of the instru
 ments and methods employed in these experiments has since
 that time been published in my " Treatise on new philosophical
  Instruments."
     From the general object of these researches, however, I have
 been allured into a new field of inquiry, by the discovery of a
 singular property of light transmitted through the agate, and
 the prosecution of the views which it suggested has led to some
 very extraordinary results, which, while they seem to conduct
 us into the very mysteries of physical optics, exhibit at the same
 time a series of appearances which far surpass, both in splendour
 and variety, all the phaenomena of light under its usual trans
 formations.        In again soliciting you to communicate these ob
 servations to-the Royal Society, I trust I need offer no apology.
 They are closely allied with that science which you have so widely
 extended by the most profound and brilliant discoveries ; and
  it is probably from the cultivation of this department of physics,
  that philosophy will be enabled to unfold the secrets of double
  refraction, to explain the forms and structure of crystallized
 bodies, and to develop the nature and properties of that ethereal
  matter, which, while it enlivens all nature by its presence, per
  forms also a capital part in the operations of the material world.
     The different sibjects of which I mean to treat in the follow
  ing letter may be included under five headsl
      I. On the polarizing power of the agate.
      II. On the structure of the agate as connected with its op
  tical properties.
      III. On the peculiar colours exhibited by the agate.
      IV. On the depolarization of light.
      V. On the elliptical coloured rings produced by obliquely de
  polarizing crystals.
                 I.  On the polarising Power      of the Agate.
      I have already shown, in a former paper,          that a ray of light
     * From the Philosophical Transactions for 1814,
                                                         part i.
     t  Phil. Trans, fur the year 1813, p, 101.— Phil. Mag. vol. xlii. p. 286.
                                     R 3                          transmitted

262                   On   the  Affections   of Light
transmitted through a plate of agate cut by planes perpendicular
to the laminae of which it is composed, suffers polarization like-
one of the pencils formed by double refraction.               If the light
thus polarized is incident at a particular angle upon any trans-
parent bodv, so that the plane of reflection is perpendicular to
the laminae of the agate, it will experience a total refraction ; if
it is transmitted through another plate of agate, having its la
minae at right angles to those of the plate by which the light im
polarised, it will suffer total reflection ; and if it is examined by
a prism of Iceland crystal turned round in the hand of the ob
server, it will vanish and reappear in every quadrant of its cir
 cular motion.
     The penoil of rays to which this remarkable property is com
municated is surrounded by a large mass of nebulous light, which
 extends about 7° 30' in length, and 1" 7' in breadth on each
 side of the bright image*.         This nebulous light never vanished
with the bright image         which   it inclosed, but was obviously af
 fected with its different changes, increasing in magnitude as the-
bright image diminished, and diminishing as the bright image-
regained its lustre.       From this circumstance I was led to con
jecture " that the structure of the agate was in a state of ap
 proach to that particular kind of crystallization           which afford*
 double images,      and   that  the  nebulous    light was  an imperfect
image arising from that imperfection of structure."
     On the supposition that this conjecture was well founded, I
 imagined, in conformity with the general analogy of all doubly
 refracting crystals, that the bright image and the nebulous light
 were produced by two different refractive powers, and I expected
 to separate the one from the other by forming the agate into a
 prism with a considerable refracting angle.             Every attempt of
 this kind, however, was fruitless ; no perceptible separation of
 the images was effected by any of the prisms which I employed,
 and I was therefore obliged to abandon this made of investigation.
     Having procured a plate of agate remarkably thin and trans
parent, I admitted a beam of light from the sky into a dark
room through a narrow rectangular aperture.               When this aper
 ture was viewed through the agate, it was surrounded with a
very considerable nebulosity ; and by interposing a prism of Ice
 land spar between the agate and the eye, and giving it a motion
of rotation, the nebulous light became very dense when the
bright image vanished, and almost completely disappeared when
    * On each side of the bright image    I have observed a condensation of
 the nebulous light resembling two imperfect images of the luminous body.
These imperfect images, which increase in number by inclining the agate,
 are slightly tinged with the prismatic colours, which evidently belong to
 that class of phenomena which have been so ably treated by Dr. Thomas
Young, in his late work on Medical Literature.

                   transmitted    through crystallized Bodies.            263
   the bright image had reached its greatest brilliancy. The bright
   and the nebulous images, therefore, comported themselves ex
   actly like    the two images formed by doubly refracting crystals ;
   and the small portion of nebulous light, which surrounded the
   bright image at its maximum lustre, was obviously produced
   either by the imperfect polish of the agate, or by its not being
   cut exactly at right angles to the plane of its laminae.
  9 It will be seen from a subsequent section of this letter, that
   light polarized by the agate, or by any other means, is depo
   larized, or partly restored to its original state, by being trans
   mitted in a particular direction through a plate of mica, or any
   other crystallized body.         I therefore interposed a plate of mica
   between the agate and the Iceland spar when the nebulous light
   had nearly disappeared, and having adjusted it to the depolariz
   ing position, the nebulous light was instantly revived round the
   bright image, while the other bright image which had disap
   peared resumed its place in the middle of the other nebulous
    mass.
        When a pencil of light polarized and afterwards depolarized,
   in a manner to be afterwards described, is transmitted through
   a plate of agate, the red* rays go to the formation of the bright
   image, while the green rays compose the nebulous light, so that
   we have a red bright image enveloped in a cloud of green light.
   By turning round the agate 90° the bright image is formed by
<  the green rays, while the nebulous image consists of the red rays,
    so that we have a green bright image encircled by a mass of
    nebulous red light.       If in the place of the agate we substitute a
    doubly refacting crystal, it will always be found that the ordinary
    image is green when the extraordinary one is red, and that they
   assume these colours alternately during the motion of the prism
    round the axis of vision.
        From these experiments, we may consider it as demonstrated,
    that the nebulous light has the same relation to the bright
    image, as the fust has to the second image of all crystals that
    have the property of double refraction f.             It does not appear,
    however,     that  the  nebulous  image    is produced by a greater re
    fractive power than that by which the bright image is formed.
    There is on the contrary every reason to conclude, in opposition
    to the analogy of all doubly refracting         J crystals, that the agate
       * The red and the green are complementary to each other. The same
    result is obtained if the blue and yellow, or any other two complementary
    colours are used.
       t See Edinburgh Trans, rol. vii. part ii.
       X It will be seen from a subsequent paper, that many other bodies both
    of mineral, animal, and vegetable origin, have the property of forming two
    images, polarized in an opposite manner, but not produced by two different
    refractive powers.
                                         R 4                             gives

264                    On the Affections      of Light
gives two images and polarizes them         like other crystallized bodies,
while the one image is placed exactly in the centre of the other.
II.    On t/ie Structure   of the Agate     as connected    with its optical
                                 Properties.
     When we examine a piece of transparent and well polished
agate, we perceive a number of bands or stripes, which are the
sections of a succession of laminae that are sometimes parallel,
but in general concentric.         These laminae are often of a milky
white    colour   when  seen  by  reflected   light, and sometimes nearly
as transparent and colourless as glass, and the white laminae
commonly alternate with the transparent ones. The laminae
which are white when seen by reflected light, are brown by
transmitted light, and the intensity of this brown colour in
creases with the thickness of the plate of agate.              The transpa
rent laminae exhibit three varieties of structure.
     The first variety, which appears to be the coarsest, consists
of a number of small serpentine lines like the figures 3 33 333,
lying parallel to each other, and closely resembling the surface
of standing water when ruffled by a gentle breeze, or the sandy
bottom of a slow moving stream. . These serpentine lines are
 always arranged in a direction parallel to the laminae, and are
seen very distinctly even when the agate is so thin as the 150th
 part of an inch.
     The second variety of structure differs from the first, only in
 the serpentine lines having a much smaller size ; and the laminae
 which have this structure appear the finest and most transpa
 rent.
      The third variety    has no serpentine lines, and does not
                                                                            ap
 pear   to differ  from   other   semi-transparent bodies.            It admits
 the light more copiously in all directions than any of the other
 structures ; and as it does not polarize it in a similar manner,
 we may consider it as possessing, in a different way, that kind
  of crystallization which polarizes the incident light by separating
 it into two pencils.
      The white veins sometimes exhibit the first variety of struc
  ture ; but in several specimens the veins appear to be fibrous in
  their structure, the fibres stretching at right angles to the laminae
  through the whole of their thickness.
      These different structures will be better understood from fig. 1
   and 2 of Plate IV. Fig. 1, represents the specimen of agate with
  incurvated veins which I have noticed in a former paper*.                    It
   is composed of two veins, AB, CD, and three transparent por
   tions AEB, ABDC, and CFD.               The transparent portions ex-
              * See Phil. Trans.
                                 1813, part i.— Phil. Blag. vol. xlii.
                                                                           hibit

               transmitted through crystallized Bodies.          205
iiibit the second variety of structure, though the small serpentine
lines are not so distinctly marked as in other specimens.        The
two veins AB, CD, are both white when seen by reflected light.
The breadth of AB is one-tenth of an inch, and its radius of
curvature 1 \ inch, and it consists of four smaller veins mn, op,
qr, wx. The light reflected by mn is a paler white, and the
light transmitted by it a lighter brown than in the other parts
of the vein. The light which op reflects is of a brighter white,
and that which it transmits of a deeper brown than in the other
parts of the vein, and at the junction of mn and op there are
several tufts of fibres of the same character as op.       The other
 divisions of the vein qr and wx are of an intermediate character
between mn and op.         The vein CD resembles the division mn,
and possesses, like AB, the fibrous structure already described.
The thickness of the plate AEDC is one-fiftieth part of an inch;
AC is three-tenths of an inch ; and a line AC forms an angle,
of about 25° with a plane perpendicular to the laminae.
     Figure 2, represents another specimen of agate of a different,
character.      It consists of transparent portions AB, BC, CD,
DE, EF, separated from each other by white veins Bb, Cc, &c,
and distinctly exhibiting the second variety of structure ; and
of other transparent portions FG, GH, HI, IK, KL, separated
by similar veins Gg, Ylk, &c. but exhibiting the first variety of
structure.     All the veins possess a structure approaching to that
of the first variety, G^, Kk exceeding the rest in the intensity of
 the light which they reflect and transmit.
     If we measure the quantity of light transmitted through a
plate of agate containing veins, it will be found to be a maximum
when the direction of the incident rays is parallel to the interior
surfaces of the veins.      When the light, however, is transmitted
 through a part of the agate of an uniform transparency, andN
 perfectly free from veins, the same result will be obtained, the
intensity of the light being a maximum when its direction is pa
 rallel to that of the laminae.
     If AB, fig. 3, be a section of the specimen of agate repre
 sented in fig. 1, and mn, op, the direction of the laminae inclined
 25° to the surfaces of the plate, rays of light incident in the
 direction RS parallel to mn are more copiously transmitted than
 when they are incident in any other direction.     When the pencil
 of light falls in the direction TV, its lustre suffers a great di
 minution : the light gradually assumes a red colour, and vanishes
 altogether when the obliquity is considerable.     But if the pencil
 is incident at the same angle on the opposite side, as PQ, its
 lustre suffers very little diminution, and its colour is not sensibly
  altered,
                                                                These

266                  On   the   Affections   of Light
     These facts admit, to a certain extent, of ati easy explanation,
  if
   we suppose that the plate       of agate consists of laminae mn, op
 imperfectly transparent, alternating with laminae cd, ef, which
 are more pervious to light, a structure which is indicated by the
 -existence  of a bright and a nebulous image.          In this case the
 intensity  of the  light  will obviously be  a maximum    when the ray
  RS is parallel   to  mn,  and  a ray PQ will, within certain limits,
  suffer less diminution of lustre than a ray TV falling with the
  game angle of incidence on the other side of RS.
     When RS and mn are perpendicular to the surfaces of AB,
 and when PQ and TV form equal angles with the perpendicular
  RS, their intensity should be equal ; but this is by no meant
 the case, for the transmitted light which is incident on the side
  T of RS appears to have a different character from that which
 is incident on the other side. We must therefore suppose that
 there is some other peculiarity of structure in the agate, con
 nected probably with that particular kind of crystallization which
 polarizes light, to which this curious fact must be ascribed*.
     The intensity of the light transmitted by the agate is likewise
 affected by its polarizing property.      If a ray Rr, Plate IV,, fig. 4,
 is incident upon a piece of agate AB, so as to be polarized by
 reflection from the second surface, then, since it is polarized
 during its passage from r to E, the bright image will suffer total
 reflection at E, while the nebulous image will be transmitted
 like common light in the direction EG.             If the agate is now
 turned round 90°, the nebulous image will suffer total reflection
 at E, while the bright image will penetrate the second surface
 at E like common light.         When the incident ray Rr has dif
 ferent obliquities and the agate intermediate positions, the in
 tensity of the transmitted light will be more or less affected by
 its polarizing power.
     The preceding observations on the laminated structure of the
 agate enable us to give a satisfactory explanation of some sin
 gular appearances exhibited by that mineral.
     In the specimen shown in Plate IV. fig. 5, the black lines re-,
 present the veins, and consequently the direction of the laminae,
and the dotted lines ab, ac, cm, ck, &c. are drawn through the
vertices of the angles made by the veins ; and consequently by
the laminae wjienever they change their direction.           When light
is transmitted through a piece of agate of this description, the
planes Aacm, mck, ngf, nhg have the appearance of being dif
ferently inclined to one another, and transmit different quan
tities of light.     If the veins and the laminae preserved the same
inclination to the surface of the plate of agate when they changed
             * See
                   Edinburgh Transactions, vol. vii. part   ii.
                                                                    their

             transmitted    through    crystallized Bodies.         267
their direction   at the lines    ac, cm, de, the phaenomenon which
has been mentioned could not take place ; but whenever the
laminae change their direction, their inclination to the surface
likewise changes, and therefore the intensity of the transmitted
light experiences a corresponding variation as the rays have to tra
verse different lengths of the imperfectly transparent laminae.
    When the veins and the laminae are incurvated like those in
the portion Aacm, their inclination likewise changes ; but as thii
change is gradual and not sudden, as in the former case, the in
tensity of the transmitted light suffers a gradual variation, and
the portion Aacm has the appearance of being concave. When
the laminae therefore are arranged in a circular form, they will
resemble a number of dimples, the apparent concavity of which
will in some cases depend on the curvature of the laminae, and
will exhibit the phaenomenon of the hammered agate.
       III.  On the peculiar Colours exhibited by the Agate.
    In my former letter on the polarizing power of the agate, I
noticed the existence of a coloured image which appeared on
each side of the common colourless image, and which was po
larized in a similar manner.          I have since observed the same
phaenomenon in other specimens ; and though I have not been
able to discover its cause, I trust the following observations will
be of some service to future inquirers.
    In the specimen represented in Plate IV., fig. 2, the colours
 appear only when the rays of light are transmitted through the
 veins B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, K, or through the coarse grained
 portions Fg, Gh, Hi, lk, K&L, and when these parts are covered
 no colour is perceived.      If the eye, therefore, is placed behind
 any of the coarse grained parts, and close to the agate, a co
 lourless image of a candle will be visible, and on each side of it
 a highly coloured image forming an angle of               with the co
lourless image.     The colours, which are extremely brilliant, are
blue, green, yellow, and red, reckoning from the common image.
 A second image coloured in a similar manner, but considerably
 fainter, is distinctly seen, forming with the colourless image an
 angle of about 21 Q.     When the agate is held some inches di
 stant from the eye, the colours appear diffused over the surface
 of the coarse grained portions, and when the light is strong,
 the phaenomenon      is uncommonly brilliant.      When the vein Bit
 is a pale blue, at a certain distance from the eye, Cc and Dd are
 of the same colour, Ee is greenish, F/"is yellowish, YGgfh pale
 red, and the red colour is more intense towards Lk.               By a
 gentle motion of the agate the colours of these portions instantly
 change, a particular colour being always produced in the same
                                                               portions

268                   On  the Affections of Light
            at a particular angle of incidence.    The veins Gg, HA,
   i,
fortions
       and  Kk  are, however,  green  when  the surrounding portions
are red, and red when the surrounding portions are green; from
which it follows that these veins produce a particular colour at
a different angle of incidence from the adjacent portions.         In
 another specimen of agate, very like the preceding, the same
phaenomena are distinctly visible, and the coloured image forms
the same angle with the common image.            In a third specimen,
belonging to Robert Ferguson, Esq.         of  Raith, the colours are
exhibited in the most splendid manner.            A semi-transparent
 and irregularly elliptical zone, about six inches and a half in cir
 cumference and three-tenths of an inch broad, has the first va
 riety of structure, and forms the coloured image at a distance
 of 13|° from the common image.
      In the specimen represented in Plate IV., fig. 1, the colours
 are visible only in the vein AB ; but here the angle of the first
 coloured image with the common image is 28°, while that of the
 second image, which is very faint, is only a little greater.     The
 other vein CD, which to all appearance has the same structure
 as AB, and which differs from it only in being a little thinner,
 exhibits no colours ; but there is a small stripe st at its edge
 where the colours are very distinct.      This circumstance induced
 me to think that the colours depended on the thickness of the
 plate, as well as upon its structure; but upon grinding a hollow
 place mvw in the vein AB, so as to make the agate remarkably
 thin, I found that it gave the same colours as-before. A similar
 experiment was made with another piece of agate, and the re
  sult was the same, though the thickness of the plate could not
 exceed the 400dth part of an inch.          The colours indeed were
 rendered more brilliant by the increased transparency of the
  agate, but in other respects they experienced no change.          In
  another specimen, of which it is unnecessary to give a particular
  description, the coloured image formed an angle of about 34°
  with the colourless pencil, and the different veins produced the
  same colour at different angles of incidence.
      In attempting to explain these appearances, I at first ima
  gined that the colours arose from the polarization of the trans
  mitted rays, and that they were analogous to the colours of
 plates of mica and topaz which I have described in another place.
  I found, however, from several experiments, that the coloured
  image is equally distinct in every position of the agate ; that it
  is alike produced by polarized or depolarized light, and that it
  suffers no change either when examined by a plate of agate or
  by a doubly refracting crystal.
       The phaenomenon which we have described must therefore
                                                                    be

               transmitted through crystallized Bodies.          269
be considered as a new case of the production of colour ; and
though we do not pretend to point out its cause, yet it obviouslv
depends upon a particular structure which is posssessed only by
some portions of the agate, and admits of such variations as t»
produce the same colours at different angles of incidence.
                 IV. On  the Depolarization  of Light.
    In the fourth book of my Treatise on new Philosophical Instru^
ments, I have already shown that almost all transparent crystals
possess in two positions the singular faculty of depolarizing light,
or of depriving it of the property which it acquires by trans
mission through the agate, while in other two positions of the
depolarizing crystal, the polarity of the light suffers no change.
Thus in Plate IV., fig. 5, let ABDC be a piece of mica or of any
other crystallized body interposed between a plate of agate and
a prism of Iceland spar when one of the images has vanished,
and let GH be parallel or perpendicular to the laminae of the
agate when the vanished image continues invisible.          This line
 I have called the neutral axis, as no effect is here produced upon
the polarized light.     By turning the mica round, the vanished
image will gradually appear ; and when the line AD comes inta
a vertical position, it will be restored to its full lustre, and will
never again vanish, whatever be the position of the Iceland spar.
The line AD I have therefore called the depolarizing axis, as
the light in passing through it has been deprived of the polarity
communicated by the agate, and which prevented it from pene
 trating the rhomboid of Iceland spar.
    By continuing the motion of the mica, it will be found that
 EF is also a neutral axis, and BC a depolarizing axis. The
depolarizing axes are common to almost all crystallized sub
stances ; and what is very singular, I have discovered them in
horn, gum arabic, glue, tortoise-shell, caoutchouc, goldbeater's
 •kin, amber, mother of pearl, camphor, spermaceti melted and
cooled, bees' wax melted and cooled, adipocire melted and
cooled, manna, oil of mace, acetate of lead melted and cooled,
 human hair, bristles of a sow, human cornea, cornea of a fish,
cornea of a cow, and imperfectly in some pieces of plate glass.
    Plates of mica, however, while they possess the properties of
 all depolarizing crystals, exhibit phaenomena peculiar to them
 selves.    If the neutral axis GH of a plate of mica is inclined
 forwards so as to make a considerable angle with the horizon,
 the image that was formerly invisible will start into existence,
 and therefore the neutral axis GH is accompanied with an
 oblique depolarizing axis Nn.       This oblique axis is also pos
 sessed by topaz, rock crystal, and many other crystallized bodies.
 In making the same experiment with the depolarizing axis of

  170            New Outlines      of  Chemical Philosophy *
  the mica, I observed the image to vanish in the direction Mm
  and Pp, which I considered as oblique neutral axes ; but              I  have
  since found that this was owing to the polarization of the pencil
  by oblique transmission, a property of light which I had not then
  discovered.
     We have hitherto considered the depolarization of light as
  effected by two separate bodies, one of which polarizes the in
  cident rays, while the other deprives them of the polarity which
  they have thus acquired ; but in all bodies that possess oblique
  depolarizing axes, light may be polarized and depolarized by
 the same crystal.       Thus if ARab, Plate IV., fig. 7$ be a plate of
 topaz having DE for its oblique depolarizing axis, and if a ray
  RR' of common light is incident at R' with such an obliquity
 that it is polarized by being reflected at C from the posterior
  surface ah, then the ray rr' will be depolarized in its passage
 from C to r along the oblique axis of depolarization, and the
  emergent ray      r/  will be depolarized light. Hence it follows
 that the angle DCi, which the oblique depolarizing axis makes
 with the posterior surface ab, is nearly equal to the comple
 ment of the angle OCr, at which light is polarized by reflection
 at C *.
                              [To  be continued.]
 XLIII . New Outlines of Chemical          Philosophy. By Ez.       Walker,
                           Esq.   of  Lynn, Norfolk.
                      [Continued   from p. 350, vol. xliii.]
The       causes from whence arise all those various phenomena of
 our atmosphere, commonly called meteors, have never been in
 vestigated in a satisfactory manner.            It is probable, however,
 that they are the effects of some universal cause.             It is already
    *  Since the preceding section was written,   I have performed a very ex
 tensive series of experiments onthe depolarization of light, and have thus
 been led to a satisfactory generalization of the phamomena.     In this theory
 the phenomena are referred to the general principle of polarization : such
 bodies as have neutral and depolarizing axes- are supposed to form two
 images polarized in an opposite manner, and either produced by the same
'or by different refractive powers; while those which depolarize light in
'every direction, like gum arable, caoutchouc, &c. are composed of films or
 layers, each of which is a doubly polarizing crystal, the neutral and the
 depolarizing axes of one 61m not being coincident with the neutral and de
 polarizing axes of the rest. In a separate memoir, which     I have drawn up
 for the consideration of the Royal Society,   I  have given a full account of
 this theory, of the experiments on which it is founded, and of the new
views to which it leads respecting the formation and structure of organized
 matter.
                                                                        known:

               New Outlines    of Chemical Philosophy.            271
known that lightning      is an electrical phaenomenon, and that
electricity is the cause of many others ; but how electricity should
produce the ordinary winds, rain, hail, snow, clouds, vapours of
all kinds, hurricanes, whirlwinds, waterspouts, and all the va
rious changes of our atmosphere itself, with regard to its specific
gravity, rarefaction, heat and moisture, as indicated by the ba
rometer, thermometer, and hygrometer, is a philosophical ques
tion that cannot be solved, till the laws which obtain between
matter and the elements of electricity be more fully investi
gated.
    The electric spark is seldom seen in nature, except in a thun
der-storm, or in the silent summer lightning.         But those two
elements which produce the spark, produce various other phae
nomena, that are daily taking place in our atmosphere.            Nor
does their influence stop here ; for they are the springs that keep
in motion the living principle of - both animals and vegetables,
and cause them to perform all their various functions.         And ae
neither animal nor vegetable life can be brought into existence
without heat, it follows, that even the living principle itself de
pends, in some measure, upon those elements which produce all
electrical phaenomena.      Although these effects are not produced
by the electric spark, yet they are the effects of the same causes,
whose operations are rendered more mild, and less perceptible,
by acting at a greater distance.
    When an excited surface is brought near an insulated con
ductor, a spark passes between them ; this is called communi
cated electricity : but when au excited surface is placed at a
greater distance from the conductor, so as not to produce a
•park, the effect is called electricity by position or induction.
   The distinction that has been made between these two effect*
k, that communicated electricity is permanent, but inducted
electricity ceases on removing the excited surface.          But this
hypothesis of inducted electricity is erroneous, although it has
been adopted by Professor Robison, and other writers on elec
tricity. The learned Professor recommends "several brass con
ductors, each supported on an insulated stalk and foot.          They
should be about an inch and a half, or two inches long, and
about three-fourths of an inch in diameter, with rounded ends,
and well polished to prevent all dissipation." — Ency. Brit. Sup.
vol. i. p. 571.
    But in a conductor of these dimensions, the two elements can
be separated only to a short distance, and, consequently, will re
unite the instant that the excited surface is removed.          Hence
it seems highly probable, that the Professor-s erroneous conclu
sion arose from the imperfection of his instruments.
                                                              Indeed,

 272              New Outlines of Chemical Philosophy.
      Indeed, the Professor himself seems to have had some doubt!
  respecting the results of his experiments 3 for he observes, that
  *e
      the reader who is at all conversant with electrical experi
  ments, will be sensible that these experiments are delicate, re
  quiring the greatest dryness of air, and every attention to pre
 vent the dissipation of electricity during the performance.               This,
 by changing the state of the conductors and electrometers, will
 frequently occasion irregularities.             The electrometers are most
  apt   to change    in this  respect,   it being scarcely possible to make
  them perfectly smooth,           and   free   from sharp angles.       It may
 therefore happen, that when the conductors have affected them
 for some time, by the action of the disturbing electric, the re
 moval of this electric will not cause the electrometers to hang
 perpendicular ; they will often be attracted by the conductors, and
 often repelled*."         Now it is evident, from these irregularities,
 that the Professor-s experiments are very far from being con
 clusive.
      Mr. Bonnet's electrometer has also been Used to prove that
 electricity by induction is not permanent, but vanishes as soon
 as the exciting cause is removed.              But this is still a more im
 perfect instrument for this purpose than the Professor-s short
 conductors.        For when an excited surface is brought near the
 cap of this instrument, without producing a spark, the element
                                                                                      by
                   is it,
 contained in           of the same kind as that possessed              the ex-
 eited surface,         repelled    from        it,
                                                through    the gold-leaves and
 tinfoil, into the earth.        And    as  soon   as  the  exciting surface                  is
 removed, an equal portion of the same element, as that which
 was repelled from the cap, returns into                 again from the earth,
                                                               it
 restores the equilibrium, and all electrical signs vanish, there
being a free communication             between the cap and the earth.
     The conductor      I  use in making experiments on inducted elec
tricity consists of brass rod 12 inches in length,                quarter of ant
                                                                            a
inch thick, with        a a
                          brass ball one inch in diameter screwed upon:
each end.        This        mounted upon a glass rod 14 inches in
                                is
length and two-tenths of an inch in diameter.                   Now, as elec
tricity is   carried   off from   the   surfaces    of  bodies      the air, or by
the conducting particles that float in that fluid, the less surface
any body has, the more perfectly                 will insulate
                                                 it               consequently
                                                                            :
a glass rod of two-tenths of an inch in diameter                      25 times   is
more perfect than another rod of the same length of one inch
in diameter   ;    for as        to 100, so
                                 4   is               to 25
                                                      is   1   the surfaces of
                                                                        ;
cylinders of the same length being           to one   another, as the squares
of their diameters.
     In a former paper           gave an account of some experiment*
                                     I
                            *
                                Ency. Brit. Sup. vol.   ii.   p. 673.
                                                                                           made

                   New Outlines   of   Chemical Philosophy.              273
 made with this instrument, from which it appears that electricity
 by induction is permanent, and does not vanish on removing the
 exciting cause*.
     But to ascertain the truth of this principle with still greater
 precision, I made a great number of instruments (more thaQ
 twenty) of a more perfect construction than that above de
 scribed.   Some of these remained electrified by induction for
 two or three hours ; but others retained the electrical element
 which they had received by induction, for almost three days.
     Exp. 1. To determine the sensibility of these instruments,
 I placed one of them close to an electrometer constructed ac
 cording to Mr. Bennet-s directions        f
                                        ; and after having slightly
 excited a barometer tube, 1 placed it at the distance of about
 two or three inches from the top of each.      The indexes of mine
 rose to 180 degrees, being the extent of the scale, and remained
permanently electrified ; but no permanent effect was produced
 on Mr. Bennet's, nor even any perceptible effect, when the air
was damp, and unfavourable for electrical experiments.
    Exp. 2. Two of these electrometers, which were differently
constructed in some respects, being placed upon a table, and an
excited glass tube carried over them at the distance of a few
inches, one of them received the same element as the excited
tube, but the other received the contrary element, and they re
mained permanently electrified J.
  . This seeming paradox may be explained thus : If a very small
piece of metal be properly insulated, the quantity of electricity
which it contains in its natural state, may be deemed almost
nothing ; and therefore it receives electricity from the excited sur
face, of the same kind as it would receive by direct communica
tion. But when a brass ball of one or two inches in diameter
is insulated, and an excited surface brought near        it,
                                                         the two ele
ments, diffused over its surface, begin to be separated.         The
element of the same kind as that of the excited surface           reis
pelled into the atmosphere, but the other element           detained
                                                               is
upon the surface of the ball     and consequently, as soon as the
                                  ;
excited surface     removed, the ball remains permanently elec
                    is
trified, and in a state contrary to that of the exciting cause.
    Now, as the laws of nature are the same, whether their ope
rations appear in our experiments or upon the grand theatre of
the universe, the above experiments may, therefore, lead us to
an explanation of some meteorological phaenomena,          which are
inexplicable upon any    other known  principle.
    Suppose    avery dense cloud (A) be electrified either          by
                                                                   its
  * Phil. Mag. vol. xlii. p. 215.      tPhil. Trans, vol. Ixxvii.
 %  A further account of these electrometers will be given at some future
•pportunity.
   Vol. 44. No. 198. Oct. 1814.                S                proximity

274                    Memoir upon the compound
proximity to the earth, or by some other means ; and let this
cloud, containing thennogen, be carried by the wind under an
other cloud (B) in its natural state, then this cloud will become
electrified by induction j for the thermogen which it contains
will be expelled from it into the air above ; and when the cloud
A is carried away by the wind, the cloud B will remain electri
fied, and in a state contrary to that of A, like the brass ball in
the second experiment.
    The air above the cloud B having received an additional
charge of thennogen, and this clement having a strong attrac
tion for moisture*, will attract moisture from the surrounding
air, and thus a new cloud will be formed.
    When the cloud A is carried away from under the cloud B,
let it be supposed that it passes over or under a very thin cloud,
then will this cloud be electrified by induction ; but it will receive
the same element as that of the cloud A : the reason of which is
 shown by the second experiment.
     As an excited barometer tube will produce an electrical effect
 at the distance of four or five feet, it may be supposed that a
 cloud highly electrified may affect other clouds at the distance
 of some miles.        And hence we may infer that all those various
 changes, which are daily taking place among the clouds, may
 arise from that unerring law of nature called inducted electri
 city f.
    Lynh, Oct.  10, 1814.                                     Ez. Walker.
                                [To   be continued.]
 XLIV. Memoir upon the compound and smooth                      or simple Eyes
     of Insects, and on the Maimer in which these               two Species of
     Eyes concur in Vision.           By M. Marcel de Serres, Pro
    fessor oj the Sciences in        the  Imperial University.
                           [Continued    from page 191.]
                    III.   On the Mechanism          of Vision.
 Th    e eyes of insects, according to the foregoing observations, are
 formed in a very different manner from those of the vertebral
 animals, or even the molluscce, among which there also exist
 distinct humours.         Nothing similar is seen in the eyes of insects
 which, deprived of every humour, appear as it were to feel
 the light almost immediately.               Although formed in a manner
 bo peculiar, these organs are nevertheless eyes, as we may be
    * Phil. Mag. vol. xliii.
                             p. 252.
    t Dr. Franklin discovered tliat     the clouds would change from positive
 to negative electricity, several times in the course of one- thunder-gust.
                                                                     convinced

                and smoother simple Eyes      of Insects.         275
Convinced by squeezing them, or rather by rubbing off from
 them a black stratum which might intercept the action of the
rays of light. The insects subjected to this test act completely
as if blind, and can no longer direct their efforts rightly for any
 of the purposes of their existence. These experiments have
 been so often repeated, and are so easily performed, that there
 is now no naturalist who doubts that the parts called eyes, in
 insects, really serve all the purposes of vision.        But how can
 these eyes concur to vision, and give the insect the faculty of
 distinguishing objects clearly ? These organs, we have said, are
constructed in such a way as to fit them to receive the images
 from objects, by the simple shock of the rays which these ob
jects reflect ; and from this way of feeling there must result an
extremely lively impression.       Insects not having, like vertebral
 animals, a contractible pupil, it seems that, as a consequence of
 this organization, vision ought to be very perfect among them,
 on account of the great number of rays which fall continually
 on the facets of their eyes.    Thus these animals seem to distin
 guish objects at very considerable distances ; but the images are
 painted or stop on their choroid, or they pass beyond, which is
 very difficult to ascertain, although the first opinion seems most
 probable.
    One of the most learned naturalists of Geneva, M. Prevost,
 has recently hazarded an opinion very different from that which
 we here propose, for he thinks that insects are completely myopes.
 He remarks in the first place, that if we prepare two lenses of
 the same form and substance, their local distances will be in
 proportion to their diameters, and in general that all the images
 of points similarly situated will be also similarly situated. This
 principle being granted, and true in itself, M. Prevost applies it
 to insects; but in our opinion the consequences he draws from it
 are not well founded.
                             " If the eyes of insects," he observes,
 " were of the same materials as ours are, and of forms precisely
 similar, these animals would be singularly myopes ; for, in order
 that the image of any object may be painted exactly on their
 retina, the distance from the object to the eye would also re
 quire to be equally small with respect to the distance required
 for the human eye, as is the diameter of their eye with respect
 to the diameter of ours." That this reasoning may be applica
 ble to insects, there must be a perfect similitude between the
 matter and the form of their eyes and ours ; but we know that
 there is not the slightest relation between these organs.          In
 fact, the description which we have given of the two species of
 the eves of insects, proves that these eyes do not present, as ad
 mitted by M. Prevost, different transparent humours, nor liga-
                                  S 2                           merits

276                  Memoir upon      the compound
 merits destined to move them.           As to the applications in which
 M. Prevost indulges, and which make him conclude that insects
 ought to have a distinct view within very narrow limits, they
 cannot be just, since they rest upon facts which are not exact.
 Thus the same naturalist says, that the eyes resembling' in shape
 those of bees cannot distinguish objects further off than five centi
 metres and one millimetre ; and finally, those of the ant species
 further than five millimetres and one-tenth millieme of a metre *.
 But it is evident from . what has been said, that it is impossible
 to bring any proof in favour of this assertion.              Besides, in a
 problem      of  this  kind, we  must  pay  attention not  only to the ab
 solutely diminutive size of the eyes, but also to their relative
 diameter, as well as to the greater or less convexity ; for an eye
 the diameter cf which would be greater than that of another
 might nevertheless take in less distinctly objects at a certain
 distance, if at the same time its convexity were more consider
 able.     This is also what observation teaches us in a direct
 manner, by proving to us that nature Has always combined in
 the kinds of insects which have the most extensive eye-sight, the
 sphericity of the cornea with the size of the eye. The libellulcp,
 the mantes, the cicindelce, as well as most of the lepidopierce,
'Hhe hymenopterce, and the dipiercp, furnish striking examples ;
 and if the size of their eyes is favourable to make them per
 ceive objects at a greater distance, the sphericity of their cornea
 is not less advantageous for rendering distinct the impression of
 external objects, by uniting a greater number of rays, and hin
  dering them from removing from the axis of vision'.              There is
 no person,      in  short, who,  in observing  the  motions of insects, has
 not remarked, when you wish to catch them, how acutely they
 see you even at a considerable distance : there are even whole
  species which cannot be caught until you keep out of their line
  of vision.      It cannot be said, however, that the insects are then
  guided by       their  sense of smelling, for this sense serves them
  probably only       for  better getting at their prey when they are
  still far from it.
     We differ with M. Prevost also when he says that, in order
  that vision should be useful to insects, they must only see that
  clearly which passes close to them, probably even at the distauce
  of their feelers and their mouths, a distance at which the hu
  man eye sees with such indistinctness, that it may well be said
 -it doe* not see at all. In the first place, there is no similitude
  whatever between the human eye and that of insects, and corf-
    * Those who have studied
                                  the habits of iii^cts must have remarked,
 th;it there are certain tepidoptertc, some dipttrie, and even orthopia's and
 Tiymenoptera, who  fly when we approach within the distauce of about siSc
 metres.                                                           sequently

                 and smooth or simple 'Eyes               of Insects.             277
sequently we are not warranted in establishing between these two
                               All that we can infer
organs any comparison.                                         that
                                                                   it is,  asit   is
necessary    for insects to  see  external   objects,  as       for  animals
                                                                        is
of   a  higher order.     The carnivorous insect ought to have the
faculty of perceiving its food at     a   certain distance, as well as the
bird of prey, which suspended in the air would, perhaps, be con
demned to die of hunger,        if   the acuteness of its vision did not
ensure its existence.
  It    must however be observed, that             we only took into the
                                                     if
account the great convexity        of the  cornea of the eyes of insects,
we might well regard these animals as myopes                   for we know
                                                                        ;
that the more convex the crystalline             in the eyes of the verte
                                                    is
bral animals, the more the species which present this arrange
ment are myopes, particularly        if  the cornea      very salient,
                                                              is          the if
 humours are very dense, and finally,           the eye
                                                if          too much sunk.
                                                                   is
The myopism then depends on the rays being united before
 reaching the retina: this inconvenience may therefore be remedied
 by   the help of concave glasses, which retard the union of the
 luminous rays. But the insects which preeent a very prominent
 and convex cornea, are they also myopes as                  consequence of
                                                                   a
 this arrangement, as would be the case with animals in which
 the images fall upon the retina, after having traversed humours
 of different density      ?Although      it  very difficult to solve so in
                                               is
 tricate     question,
             a              would nevertheless appear that the con
                           it
 vexity and protuberance of the cornea ought not to render the
 insects myopes, since the luminous rays have not to unite rather
 at one point than at another in order that the effects of vision
 may be obtained, the latter being effected not because an image
is   painted on the retina, but      by the direct impression of the lu
 minous rays on the optic nerves.            The convexity of the cornea
 being favourable to the     collection   of the rays, and hindering their
  dispersion, this form was perhaps the most convenient in the
 structure of the eyes of insects.        It was at least the best adapted
.fpr giving them keen sensations, since             tends to make the rays
                                                         it
  of light fall more perpendicularly         This form         also the most
                                                                     is
  common in this order of animals         ;and   even    considerable
                                                              a         num
  ber of insects which perceive objects very far off, present their
  cornea very convex and prominent, such as the papillons and
  the cicindelce..    It may also be observed, that the concavity of
  the cornea,    by allowing only    a small number of rays to enter the
 .eye.,  ought   on  that 'very   account     to procure less lively and
  feebler sensations.     Thus, we only observe this arrangement in
  a small number of insects, and merely in the tolerably smooth
  eyes   ;but in these species, the compound eyes and the lateral
.simple eves may supply the want of the concave eye.
                                      S3                                               If

278                   Memoir upon the compound
    If the   mechanism of vision,      such as it is in insects, seemecl
even to the most eminent anatomists            of the present age so dif
ficult to comprehend, it would seem that the way in which they
proceeded to the dissection of the compound eyes (for few inter
fered with the smooth eyes) has been in a great measure the
eause.   The case would have been different,         if,in their dissection*
of compound eyes, they had not always proceeded from the in
side to the outside,       method of operating which may lead into<
                           a
error;  for,  however  little we disturb the optic nerve, the filaments
which gives off, drawn
       it                      alittle back    by being disturbed, are no
longer exhibited on the tunic of the cornea.           If, on the contrary,
we carefully remove the cornea, we see in an evident manner
the numerous nervous filaments which pass through the tunic
of this membrane, and spread            little in order to form the pecu
                                         a
liar retina of each facet. From that instant, we need no longer
explain how the light           able to act on the retina through art
                               is
opaque varnish.
'
    If we set out from the organization of the eyes of insects,           it
would appear that we might conceive that vision                 is produced
among them in the following manner            :
                                                                        by
   When the tight meets a diaphanous body terminated                    a
curved surface, which gives          access into its interior,
                                    it                          itundergoes
a refraction.     Ifits rays being parallel meet the surface of this--
body, and its medium be denser than that in which the incident
rays move, the broken rays will approach the perpendicular by
converging upon each other.            But    ifthe rays of light fall ob
liquely, making a very wide angle, the more obliquely will they
fall, and the less will they approach the perpendicular.              Thesfc,
are precisely the different effects which light undergoes in falling
en the cornea, which unites with transparency a convex sur
face, and a denser medium than that in which the luminous ray*
wiove.
    In fact, the luminous rays, direct or reflected, which issne from
a visible body, and reach the eye, form different cones, the points
 of which are at the object, and the bases on the corneal             Those
which    fall  on this membrane in an oblique direction,             and  by
forming very wide angle, are reflected, and do not traverse.
             a
 Those^ on the contrary, which fall under             convenient angle (an
                                                    a
 angle which in the human eye            estimated at 48°), pass through
                                         is
 the cornea, or the facets which compose            it,
                                                      and undergo from    it
 a refraction, which ought to bring them near the perpendicular.
It  results that these nervous filaments, situated immediately un
 der, are struck      the great quantity of rays which reach them,,
                      by
 and which, as    aconsequence of their direction, are concentred at
the most sensible part of the optic nerve,          if    we may so express.
                                         -4

                  and smooth or simple Eyes     of Insects.         279-
"it, or at the expansion of this nerve, so that these filaments may
  afterwards transmit to the brain the impression of the rays of
  light, or the image.
      The great number of facets which compose the cornea, is no
  obstacle to what we have said ; but each of these facets ought
  to be considered as a cornea, which exercises its action on the
  rays of light, and makes them undergo the changes necessary for
  the brain to receive their impression.       Nor ought their number
  to make us suppose that insects ought to see objects very much
  multiplied ; for, whatever may be the number of the nervous fila
  ments which correspond to each facet, they all set out from the
  spreading of the optic nerve, which we have considered as a re
  tina sufficientlv analogous to that of the red-blooded animals :
  it is on this retina that are painted the images perceived by the
  filaments ; perhaps even this retina is only destined to transmit
  to the brain the impression produced by the rays of light on the
  optic nerves. This is the more probable, because images can
  hardly be supposed to exhibit themselves from behind an opaque
  membrane.       The great use of the retina would therefore be to
  centralize the impression, and to render it unique, if we may so
                                                            . -
  express ourselves.
      From what we have seen, if the force and number of the rays
  of light had been very considerable, these rays might by their
  too great excitability injure the organ of sight.         But nature,
  equally   admirable in her  minutest details  as in her most  beautiful
  works, has guarded against this inconvenience ; and the varnish
 -of the choroid, as well as the choroid itself, are the organs
•which hinder the multiplicity of the luminous rays from deran
  ging or altering the sensibility of the nervous filaments.        The
  varnish of the choroid and the membrane of the choroid appear,
 >therefore, destined to absorb the excess of the luminous rays, and
  to diminish the too great excitability which a very strong light
- would necessarily have produced        on the optic nerves, accord
  ing to the conformation of the eyes of insects. The black and
  opaque bands which we observe in certain specie*, like the more
  or less coloured spots in others, seem chiefly intended to absorb
   the excess of the luminous rays, while those less thick and more
  transparent facilitate, on the contrary, the passage of the light.
      It is easy to perceive how necessary this arrangement was to
  insects : in fact, the latter not having, like most of the vertebral
   animals, pupils with the property of contracting and dilating,
   and which, as a consequence of this arrangement, permit these
   animals to receive only the rays the most approximating the
   perpendicular, or the axis of vision, had occasion for an opaque
• membrane to absorb
                          the useless rays, or such as might even lie
 *                                 S 4                            hurtful

480                    Memoir upon the compound
hurtful to vision.    Thus it is particularly by the privation of this
membrane,    that  we  may judge of its influence on the sense of
sight; and observation proves that it is wanting in all the tucifvgce.
   According to this way of considering the varnish of the cho
roid and the choroid itself, we see that the opacity of the latter,
always very great, may be no obstacle to vision.         It is even pos
sible that   this  membrane    should  serve  to  render it more com
plete, by preventing the sensibility     of  the optic nerves from be
ing affected by the almost immediate action of the light on their
texture.
    As to the air tracheae, their chief use seems to be to sustain
the spreading of the optic nerve, and to circumscribe it within
limits essential to the mechanism of vision.              Besides, it ii
 more than probable that the choroid is formed by a heap of
 tracheae furnished by the large trachea which surrounds it. These
 tracheae, which are distributed over the cellular texture of tht
 choroid, adhere by its upper surface to the varnish, and by it*
 inferior to the spreading of the optic nerve. This organization
seems even to be proved by the examination of these various
 parts. The large circular trachea, placed almost on the same
        with the choroid, furnishes in its texture a very great num-
   er of small tracheae which lose themselves in
 Elane                                                  it, since we can
 find  no  trace   of them  after this membrane.      Finally,  by  pro
                                                                     a
 longed maceration, we may assure ourselves that the choroid              is
 formed   by   a  close texture, of which, perhaps, the great number
 of tracheae which lose themselves in      it,   the cause.
                                                 is            We might
 also remark that, in insects, the tracheae, in being distributed,
over the cellular texture, form       by their union with this texture
various membranes, and even several of a considerable extent.
The cellular tunic alone of the intestinal tube       is
                                                      a    proof of this  :
it   issingular enough that the choroid, formed in the red-blooded,
animals by triple, vascular texture,
            a                              is,of all the parts of insects,
that which receives most tracheae.         In short, the choroid     is not
 the only membrane of insects in which we might find            a   similar
resemblance.      As the air  is the only fluid which has any circula
 tion in them, all the parts which ought to have either           a   great
jensibility, or    a great contractibility, generally present a great
number of tracheae.        Thus we may always estimate a priori,
either, the force of    amuscle, or the sensibility of an organ, by the
tracheae which we see them receive.                              .   •
     The situation of the optic nerve, with respect to the eye, seems
 of no consequence to insects.        In fact, the numerous nervous
 filaments corresponding to the facets of the cornea, render         it  in
 different  that the  rays of light  should  fall with more or     less ex
 actitude on the insertion of the optic nerve, sjnee the latter can

               and smooth er simple Eyes      of Insects.         28fe
enly receive the impression from it by the nervous filaments fur
nished by its spreading.
    From what has been said, it is evident that the eye in insect*
does not present so complex a structure as the same organ in ani
mals of a superior order. In the eyes of insects we do not observe
different humours which by their density can change the direc
tion of the rays of light, by operating a refraction, always in
proportion to the nature of the mediums which they pass through.
Nevertheless, if the structure of the eye is very simple in this
order of animals, it seems to accommodate, itself very well with
the properties and laws of light, as well as with the object which
this organ ought to attain.      In fact, the cornea, by its transpa
rency, its convexity, and its more considerable density than that
of the air, gives in the first place, on account of its transparency,
a passage to the rays of light,- while, as a consequence of these
two other properties, the rays undergo a refraction, which tends
to render convergent the broken fasciculi, and to approximate
them to the perpendicular.         As the rays which traverse the
cornea strike at the same time the nervous filaments, or -the*
retina of the facets of the eye and the tunic of the cornea, they
may be perceived by the nerves, and the latter may transmit the
impression which they experience to the expansion of the optic
nerve.    It would, it seems, be in this point that all the rays
•hould be concentrated, in order to form the image ; but as, in
order to do this, they would have to pass through an opaque mem
brane, it is difficult to admit it.    We must, therefore, suppose
that the sensation is there concentred ; and probably this species,
of retina has no other use than that of centralizing and bringing
to one point all the impressions perceived by the optic filaments.
    The protuberance of the cornea seems to be frequently in in
sects in the ratio of the smallness of their eyes : and this ratio
is any thing but indifferent.     In short, the more protuberant the
 cornea, the more numerous are the incident rays; consequently,
the rays .which reach the nervous filament being in greater num
 ber, vision is produced with a force similar to that which a
greater dimension in the eyes could excite ; with this difference,
 however, that insects in this case do not see so far.        We may
 cite as a proof the locusta lilifolia and acuminata of Fabricius.
    Lastly, it remains to make known the singular arrangement
^observed in the compound eyes of the HbeUula vulgaris, and of
 the locusta lilifolia, as well as to say a few words on the struc
 ture of the eyes of the lucifugce species.       The compound eyes
 of the libellula vulgaris and of the locusta lilifolia present a
 singular arrangement on account of the tunic of their cornea,
 which is red in the upper and posterior parti, and of a clear
 green in the inferior and anterior parts,         These two colour*
                                                                    are

2S2                   Memoir upon ike compound
are so decided, that the eye appears externally as if formed
by two distinct parts.      Should this effect take place on account
of the great convexity of the cornea, and even of the position of
the eye of this species ? For this position and this convexity
render the approach of the rays of light easier in the upper part
than in the lower, because in this part the eye is perpendicular
with respect to the rays, whereas the lower is on the contrary
very oblique with respect to them.       We also observe that the
upper part presents a red colour — a colour which has less re-
frangibility than the green of the lower part, and which also gives
less light.    The lower part, to which the approach of the rays*
of light was verv difficult, also presents a green colour, which has
more refrangibility than red, and which also gives a greater in
tensity of light, since, according to the elegant experiments of'
Herschel, green ravs are almost as brilliant as yellow.     Thus, the
red, sending back rays less brilliant than the green, and being .h>
the point of the eye where the rays of light arrive most easily,
would have been placed in this part to absorb, by its greater
Opacity, the excess of these very rays, which must have injured'
by their too great excitability the optic nerves.      The green, on
the contrary, presenting more refrangibilitv, and a greater in
tensity of light, would augment the excitability of the optie
nerves in the lower part, and in this way correct the difficulty
which the rays might experience in reaching this part of the>
eye.    It is possible that what we have now said may be well
founded : however this may be, we can only regard the explana
tion of this fact as probable.
   This arrangement is also visible in the locnsla giganlea, in
which the eye presents externally all its upper half of a reddish?
brown, and its lower half of a very livelv green.       The centre of
the eye, i. e. the intermediate part between those two shades, is*
of a bright red. These various shades are owing to the diversity
of colour in the tunic of the cornea.     We may even remark, that
in proportion as the green tint approaches the lower part of
the eve, it takes a clearer shade, and verges more and more to
wards the white.       As to the smooth eyes, this species has only
two very small convex ones of a slight red, and situated on the
crown of the head between the compound eves, and above and
in front of the antennae.
   There are some colenpterce, like the Haps, the pedinus, and
certain tenebriones, which are completely lucifuge, and which,
like the llalla, eannot support daylight.         Thus, on exposing
the species of these different genera to a strong light, they are
seen to shun it by lowering their heads.       Insects being deprived
of the pupil, the explanation which has been given of this phae
nomenon in the nocturnal animals cannot be applicable to them*
                                                               Thus,

              and smooth or simple Eyes       of Insects.            28S
Thus,    as we have already observed that this genus presented
neither choroid nor circular trachea, might we not presume that
the excess of the rays of light which arrive on the optic nerves,
not being absorbed by an opaque membrane like the choroid,
may injure vision considerably, by increasing too forcibly the               .
 excitability of the optic nerves ?       These insects are as it were
 rendered stupid by the excess of light : for a contrary reason, a
 less brisk light not increasing their excitability too much, ought
 it not to be more favourable for enabling them to perceive ob
jects in a distinct manner ? We might also add, that the nervous
filaments which attach below the facets of the corrtea, are here
 very short, so that they are nearer the optic expansion to
which sensation is transmitted: having less intermediate between
them and the general retina, this impression may be greater.
 Their sensibility being besides acuter, they require less light to
paint in a clear manner the images on the retina, images which
 are soon afterwards perceived by the brain, on account of the.
 proximity of this organ to the expansion of the optic nerve.
We must also remark, that it is in the eyes of the lucifugce alone
 that the image can be produced, since the impression made by
 the rays of light on the optic filaments has not an opaque
 membrane to pass through to be transmitted to the brain.
    As to the black point which is most frequently observed at the
 exterior of the compound eyes, a point which seems moveable,
 and situated in the interior of the eye, so that it should have
 some relation with the ball of the eye, it seems to be produced
 by the point of the choroid corresponding to the small circle
which gives a passage to the optic nerve, since in this part, the
 furthest removed from the eye, the deeper violet-coloured tunic
 ought to produce this point nearly of the breadth of the circle.
 It is clear that this point is in proportion to the size of the
 circular aperture through which the optic nerve passes.               We
 see it larger in all the species in which this aperture is formed
 by the adductor muscle of the mandibule, as in the hcusia and                   «
                It
                   by is,
 libetlula.          on the contrary, less considerable in those which
 have formed  it       circular trachea, like the gry litis, the truxalis,
                        a
 and the greater number of the diplerce, in which this aperture         is
 still smaller.    The species which have their tunic entirely black,
 like most of the coleopterco and the hymenop teres, as well as
 the acheta, &c. do not appear to have any for  ;        cannot be seen,
                                                          it
 on account of the colour of the tunic.        It    is,
                                                       on the contrary,
 more visible in the species in which this tunic       of a clear colour.
                                                         is
 In short, the optic nerve does not oppose this arrangement             ;
 for the choroid covers all the internal parts of the eye, except in.
 the points where            traversed by the nervous filaments.
                            it   is                                     As
 to the movement which we observe in          it,   it easy to convince
                                                         is
                                                                 ourselves

284                      -   Memoir vpon the compound
ourselves that it is not a real movement.         It seems only to take
place, because the point being always fixed, and in the middle
of the eye, consequently answering to all the facets of the cornea,
on whatever side we observe each facet, the latter being capable
of making it what it            there results that kind of movement
                                    is,
which seems to be in the black point or the eye-ball, but which
depends on that made                by
                               the observer.
   The size of the compound eyes            isworthy of being noticed.
This size     variable when we compare
                is                               with that of the body,
                                                 it
but    seems always more considerable in this respect than in
      it
the vertebral animals.       We observe in fact, in. insects, that the
greatest dimension of the compound eyes, in comparison with
the body,      as
                is   to
                     4     the medium as 10 to
                               1,                       and the smallest
                                                            1,
60 to .    1   have found the latter proportion in two genera only,
                I
and  I consider      therefore as extremely rare.
                     it
   To conclude the dimensions of which have spoken, prove
                     :                                I
how large the eyes of insects are in proportion to their bodies.
If it    with difficulty that we can conceive how vision can be
        is
effected in these insects, by means of their compound eyes, we
shall experience much more difficulty when we contemplate the
smooth eyes.       These eyes are still more simple than the latter;
they are even so simple, that we might fairly doubt              if
                                                                they per
formed the function of eyes at all,        if
                                            experience   did  not  demon
strate     in an evident manner.
           it                              The greater number of the
smooth eyes present        convex form, which
                               a                       generally observed
                                                           is
in the cornea of the compound eyes also sometimes, however,
                                                      :
the cornea of the smooth eyes, instead of presenting this struc
ture,    more or less concave.
        is                            This last foraj may nevertheless
present  some   inconveniences    in the sense of sight; for,    the light,
                                                                     if
In passing from        rarer into a denser medium, meets
                         a                                      a concave
surface, its rays, however parallel they were, become divergent                ;
a disposition not very favourable to a distinct vision.           In fact,
¦o far from the rays diverging too much,           would seem that the
                                                      it
optic nerve placed towards the centre of the cornea can scarcely
receive the impression of them.          As to the plain surface which
some   smooth     eyes exhibit, although            less favourable to
                                                  it is
                                                 it                            a
greater affluence of the rays of light, —              not an obstacle to
                                                           is
vision, since the light passing from        ararer medium into a body,
which presents a piano-transparent surface, and               denser me
                                                                 a
dium, its rays will approach the perpendicular at their point of
immersion.      We may also observe that, the smaller the smooth
eyes are,  the  less  plain are their surfaces thus the mantes, for
                                                      :
instance, which have very small eyes, have them projecting in                  a
remarkable manner.         The size of the smooth eyes is, besides,
very variable in the genera which are most known thus,           :        it   is
scarcely possible to become acquainted with the connexion which
                                                                     exists

                  and smooth or simple Eyes    of Insects.           285
exists between the projection of the smooth       eyes and their small-
 ness.
     The light arriving "therefore on the external membrane of the
 smooth eyes, or upon their cornea, undergoes various changes
 which are connected with the form of the cornea.          If it be con
vex, as most generally observed, and the direction of the rays
 be oblique, by making a very wide angle, they are reflected, and
 do not traverse it.       If the light, on the contrary, falls on the
 cornea at a convenient angle, its rays pass through that mem
 brane, and undergo from it a refraction which brings them near
 to the perpendicular.        Finally, when the cornea is plain, the
 rays of light will continue their route, by approaching the per
 pendicular at the point of immersion ; whereas, if it were concave,
supposing even that the luminous rays were parallel, they would
 become divergent, and would remove from the axis of vision.
    The light which has passed through the cornea, arrives im
 mediately on the kind of retina formed by the optic nerve, a
 continuation of the small optic nerves.       This retina, shaken by!
 the approach of the rays of light, can transmit the impression of
 them to the brain.       But the few rays which reach the smooth
 eyes,  either on  account of the sometimes unfavourable disposition
 of the cornea, or on account of their smallness, would have been
 still diminished, if there had been under the nerves a blackness
 and opaque coating a* observed in the compound eyes.              Thus,
 in the smooth eyes this costing is most generally of a clear co
lour, or even sometimes completely white.           We may therefore
presume      that  the  blackish   tunic of the compound eyes is de
stined, by absorbing a part of the rays of light, to diminish the
 sensibility of the optic nerves, while the almost colourless var
 nish of the smooth eyes, far from absorbing the luminous rays,
 sends them back, and t'.ius increases the excitability of the retina
formed by the spreading of the small optic nerves.          It seems at
 least that it is in this respect that the smooth eyes may be use
ful to vision ; for their smallness is so great, that without this
arrangement they never could procure sensations very distinct.
    Besides, the insects which have smooth eyes onlv,have a greater
number of them ; and as their life is generally less active than
 that of the species which possess two kinds of eyes, we may pre
sume that it was not necessary to them to perceive objects at
distances so great.       We observe also that insects which have
smooth eyes only, keep almost constantly in dark places, or at
least do not go great distances, being also deprived of the organs
adapted for flying.      The aplerce, and the numerous class of the
larvae of the lepidopterce, furnish a striking proof of this.
    All the experiments which I made to determine to what ex
tent the smooth eyes may be useful to the insects which present
                                                                     the

286                 Memoir upon     the compound
the two kinds of eyes, have scarcely given me any information a»
to the destination and utility of the former.        I removed with
the greatest care the smooth eyes from the vespa galiica and
vulgaris, as well as from the apis violacea and other hymeno-
plerce, and from the apis philant hits and scolia.    At the moment
of their being removed, the privation seemed to retard their
movements a little ; but soon afterwards they acted as before.
 I never saw the wasps whose smooth eyes 1 had removed or
 varnished over, at all embarrassed in taking flight again. The
 case was the same with the orthopterai which I submitted to si
milar tests : in short, all continued to move as before.
    When, on the contrary, I passed a, blackish varnish over the
 compound eyes, or when I burst them, I saw the insects act
 completely as if they were blind, turning about in all directions,
                          '
 without being able to guide themselves.          Thus they brushed
 against the wall, or any obstacle which I placed before them.
    All the insects which I subjected to this kind of test seemed
 to draw their legs very frequently over their heads, as if to re
 move what hindered their eye-sight.        In this state we also saw
 them make more frequent use of their antennae, by directing
them always forward and on one side, and feeling with the
 greatest celerity the objects which opposed their progress.     This
greater mobility of the antennas announced pretty well their uses :
but in order to render them still more evident, I took some lo-
 custce which have the antennae very long, and I touched these
organs with oxy-muriatic acid.       The insect was noways affected
thereby ; but sis soon as this acid came near the eye-lids, and
long before it could produce an immediate action on the eye
itself, the insect darted away with rapidity, showing a great de
gree of anxiety.       This experiment, which I repeated several
times, and which always succeeded, seems to confirm an opinion
which I formerly hazarded on the use of the antennae and the
palpebrae in certain classes of insects*.
    In short, if we remove from the insects which have not com
pound eyes, their smooth eyes, or if we cover them with an
opaque varnish, we see them act as blindly as those which are
deprived of their compound eyes.       This experiment proves that,
when insects have no other eyes than simple eyes, the latter per
form the offices of compound eyes.           As to the smooth eyes
united in the same individual to the compound eyes, they seem
to be of very little use.   Perhaps they are merely destined to serve
for the vision of objects which strike directly the point where
these eyes are situated.     Thus, the lateral eyes placed on the la
teral summits of the head, would be destined to show the insect
  * Vide my Memoir on the Sense of Smelling, and on the Orcnas which.
seem to be the Seat of in the Annates da Museum li'Uist. Aa<.
                     it,

                    and smooth or simple Eyes   of Insects.          28/
all external objects in this direction, while the smooth           eye   ia
the front     and centre would inform them of the obstacles which
they might expect to find when advancing in a straight line. It
is to be observed that, in this arrangement, the lateral smooth
eyes are very little controled by the compound eyes, and that
the eye in the centre is always calculated more directly for any
obstacle which should oppose the advance of the insect.           Some
times, however, the smooth eyes are arranged in the form of a
 triangle on the crown of the head ; when they can only be use
 ful in enabling the insect to perceive objects placed above it.
 Indeed, those which exhibit this disposition lower the head so
as to enable them to see straight forward.             Bees and certain
epecies of wasps, as well as the mania, which have their smooth
eyes on the summit of their head, know very well how to incline.
it,   the better to distinguish objects placed before them.
     The facts which we have detailed, seem positive enough to
permit us to conclude,
      1. That we must never judge of the extent or perfection of
 any sense, from the simplicity of the organ destined to produce
it
 ;      for,if  we regard only the little degree of complication in
 the eyes of insects, we might presume either that these animal*
 do not see at all, or at least that they have not        a very distinct
 vision.     Facts, however, prove not only that they are not myopes,
 but also that they perceive objects at great distances.
      2. That the eyes of insects have no relation with those of
 any other class, and that this organ, like all those of this order
 of animals, cannot be assimilated, nor even compared, to any
 other which performs the same functions in           adifferent order of
  animals.     Thus, we always run the risk of establishing inaccurate
  relations, when we endeavour to compare the organs of insect*
  with those of the other invertebral animals, and fortiori with
                                                          a
  those of the vertebral.     In fact, insects are so formed, on a par
 ticular plan, that we ought never to establish any parallel with
 Tespect to their organs, except between the species of different
  orders.     We may therefore say that, correctly speaking, these
  animals ought to be compared with each other only, because,
  in the immense chain of organized beings, they alone present
  the remarkable peculiarity of having no other fluid         in circula
  tion but air. This disposition of not presenting any ramified
  vessels but those destined to give play, through all the parts of
  the body, to the impression of this subtle fluid, the aliment of
  life as it    of flame, ought necessarily to have brought with
               is                                                         it
a    crowd of differences in organization, which we would seek for
  elsewhere in vain.      The nervous system     is the only one which
 jstill shows that all the articulated animals have been formed on
                                                                      on*

 288                         Memoir upon         the compound
 one and the same plan ; and although it undergoes fewer modi
 fications than all the other systems, we see it exhibit peculiarities
  which evidently announce the absence of a centre of action in
  insects.
     While this memoir was printing, I ascertained that the per
  fect insects which exist in water, exhibit some peculiarities in
  their compound eye.       Thus, as I have already remarked, this
  eye is always of a dark colour, which is owing jointly to the
  thickness of the tunic of the cornea, to that of the varnish of the
  choroid, and fmally, to that membrane itself. The varnish of
  the choroid, seen at its greatest thickness, appears to be of the
  deepest black ; but when we stretch     and reduce  it,
                                                        to thin layers,         it
it   passes to the darkest violet.  The thickness of the choroid                                is
 very remarkable in these species, particularly in the dylicce and
  the hydrophylce. In both, the circular trachea     totally wanting       is                   :
 its place       is
              occupied         by
                              common trunk, from which issue two
                                    a
 principal branches, which proceed to form around the optic
 nerve   a network of tracheae larger than the branches which fur
 nish them.     Finally, have remarked that in most of the insects
                              1
 which live in water, the retina      very near the cornea,        dis
                                              in is
                                                                                           a
 position which      also observed
                        is           the species which are not pro
 perly lucifugos, but which habitually                      fly
                                              at sunset only, such as
 the geotrupce.
     I  have already observed that certain species "presented several
  different shades in their compound eye                  but, what
                                                                  ;        most           is
  singular, there are some in which this organ exhibits in its mid
  dle part    a very narrow stripe of a colour totally different from
 the   rest  of  the eye.      This stripe, generally of         deep tint,     a               is
  almost always placed         in the middle of the eye, so that          sepa            it
 rates   it into two equal parts. But why              the tunic of the cornea
                                                            is
 thus of     adifferent colour      ?    It  difficult to account for this.
                                              is
 This disposition, however,             not very rare
                                        is                 we see ;   even very      it
  decidedly    in  the  locusta   gigantea,    the pliasma rossia, as well as
 in certain species         of  syrphus   and   fabanus.      The locusta lili-
folia* presents even several parallel stripes of reddish brown,            a
 whereas the rest of the eye            of whitish green what
                                        is     a                           most :         is
 particular       is,
                    that  its stripes  do  not   exist      the middlein of the
            have    described   in  the           of
         -
 eye.    I                              course       this  memoir    the  com
 pound eyes of the cloporlce, thinking that they were true insects,
>.  e. articulated animals deprived                   of
                                                 a circulation of blood, but
 furnished with tracheae.            Subsequently        have made new re
                                                            I
 searches as to the organs of circulation of                  great number of
                                                                           a
   * All that has been hitherto said on the locusta
                                                    liliftlia ought to be re
ferred to the locusta j-alcala. These two names have been confounded                            by
Dtistake.
                                                                                      invertebral

                 and smooth or simple Eyes     of Insects.        289
invertebral animals, and these inquiries have proved that the clo-
portce, which I had placed among the insects, belonged to the
class of aracknoides; and that phalangia, which I had pre
sumed to have the same organization with the spiders, ought to
be classed with the insects, since they present trachea and a
dorsal vessel without vascular ramifications. As to the cloporlce,
they have a true heart provided with vessels, the blood of which
goes to receive the impression of the air, into particular organs
not ramified, and which we may consider as species of lungs.
With respect to the organs of circulation and respiration, the
clqportce are nearer the scorpions than the spiders.          In fact,
the latter have a heart very much enlarged at its base : al
though this heart extends afterwards to the extremity of the
body, it by this enlargement resembles that of the crust aceous
decapodes,    with this difference, however, that the position of
these two organs is not the same.        The heart of the crustaceee
is situated in the breast, while that of spiders is in the abdomen
and the side of the back.      As to the heart of scorpions, we do not
see that it has any very sensible enlargements ; in this respect
 this organ move resembles the heart of the clopoflce than that
 of the spiders.    But it is truly worthy of remark, that the or
gans of respiration are multiplied in proportion as the heart takes
 an uniform diameter.      Thus in the spider, in which the heart
 is decidedly swollen, there exist only two lungs : in the cloportce
 the heart, without showing any sensible enlargement, as in the
 spider, nevertheless presents a diameter a little more consider
 able towards its upper part : thus we observe they have four
 lungs : finally, in the scorpions this number amounts to eight ;
 but the heart in all these animals is of a diameter nearly uniform
 throughout its whole extent.        To conclude : in all the arack
 noides the lungs are always symmetrical, and are never found but
 in pairs.    It is possible that the form of body may also have
  some influence on that of the organs of respiration, and parti
 cularly of circulation.    Thus the greatest diameter of the heart
 in certain species of spiders would supply what was wanting in
 length. Nevertheless, this cause ought not alone to have in
  fluence, since in all the spider race the heart extends from one
  extremity of the body to another.         The heart of the spiders
  begins,  in fact, at the bottom   of the abdomen   ; but as it sends
  two principal vessels into the breast, we may say that it extends
  from one extremity of the body to the other.
     As to the nervous system of the true spiders, it is always com
  posed of a cerebriform ganglion, situated in the upper part of
  the body, which we may either call head or breast, because it
  performs functions analogous to those two parts. This ganglion,
  situated above- the oesophagus, surrounds it most frequently
     Vol.44. No.198. Orf.1814.                  T                   by

290                  Memoir upon     the compound
by prolonging itself afterwards into two cordons, which form new
 ganglions, from which other nerves issue wholly as if from the
 brain. But in the insects, we know that there exist as many
 ganglions as there are rings, while in the true arachnoides this
number is always far less considerable.         Besides, in the articu
 lated animals, the nervous system in general undergoes few vari
 ations ; it even shows in an evident manner, that all these ani
 mals have been formed on one and the same plan, which has
 merely undergone some trifling modifications adapted to peculiar
 circumstances.
     From what we have observed, there will be some changes ne
 cessary in the classification of the articulated animals, and the
 class of insects will be better distinguished from that of the
 arachnoides than it has been hitherto ; for these animals differ
 from eacli other in their organs of respiration and circulation,
 and even, although in a maimer less striking, in those of repro
 duction and nutrition.        This branch of the subject will form a
 separate memoir, on the organs of circulation and respiration of
 some families of articulated animals.       In the mean time we shall
 observe, that the arachnoides are divided naturally enough into
 two principal families, the oviparous arachnoides and the vivi
 parous arachnoides.        It is besides very singular, to find this
 mode of gestation      in  animals whose organization is also very
simple ; for their system of respiration may be assimilated, under
certain points of view, to that of some crustaceous decapodes
with long tails : as to their circulation, it is purely pulmonary.
The division of the arachnoides which we have mentioned,            is, as
we see, very     different   from  that hitherto adopted   ; indeed this
division will fall of itself to be still more subdivided, in order to
place each genus in the most natural order.           In this classifica
tion the arachnoides will always come after the Crustacea bul     ;
the order in which the insects have been usually arranged must
be totally inverted.       Thus, instead of terminating the series of
insects  by  the apterat, as several naturalists have done, we must
on the contrary commence with them, sinc« most of the apterce
have a greater affinity with certain arachnoides.
    The common spiders having ramified respiratory organs or
tracheae, and being thereby deprived of an organ of circulation
furnished with vessels, are true insects  ; I   ought, therefore, to say
a  few words with respect to their eyes.
    The eyes of the phalangium are situated nearly like those of the
Crustacea;, with which the common spider has besides some rela
tions, either from the disposition of theirbodies,andoftheirorgans
of movement, or, finally,     by the volume of their hepatic vessels, or
their livers. Thus, the position of the smooth eyes of the common
spider (noothersare observedinthis genus)       isconsiderably differerit
                          <    v
                                                       .
                                                           ' • from

                    and smooth or simple Eyes    of Insects.        29 1
from that of the eyes of the other apterce.         The cornea is all of
a piece, as in the smooth eyes : it seems externally of a brilliant
black ; but this colour does not belong to its texture ; it is pro
duced by the tunic of that membrane which presents this shade.
This cornea is very convex, rounded, and polished.           Placed in a
projection of the head, the eyes of the spider are very close to
each other, being only separated by a deep sinus.          The eyes are
placed a little on one side of the projection which forms the co
riaceous envelope, so that they ought not to be able to distin
guish objects except above them and laterally.          As they are im
moveable as well as the parts on which they are situated, it must
be difficult for the phalangium to perceive objects placed in a
straight line with the body.         This position of the eyes is the
more remarkable, as it is the only one of this kind which exists
in insects.      It is not found in the arachnoides, and is only seen in
certain species of crustacece, and still under many modifications.
    The eyes of the phalangium are protected by an interorbitary
arcade, and this forms above them a projection for defend
ing them against the impression of external objects.         These eyes,
so far as their diminutive size has permitted me to judge, are
formed by a cornea of one hard piece, thick, convex, and trans
parent.      It seems, however, to be black when viewed externally;
but this is owing, as we have already said, to the colouring of the
tunic placed under this membrane.            This tunic is besides very
thick.     We see it traversed by a nerve which corresponds with
the concave surface of the cornea.         The choroid and its varnish
are completely black : probably, the texture of this membrane is
formed by tracheae, nevertheless it is not surrounded by a circular
trachea.      There proceed towards this part numerous tracheae,
but they are there ramified, instead of forming a principal tra
chea.     This is nearly all that I could ascertain respecting the
structure of the eyes of this kind of spider, so similar to the arach
noides in external character, and yet so different in the organs of
                                     "
 respiration and circulation^ .
    Having been able quite recently to ascertain the structure of
the compound eyes of the crepuscular insects, such as the
 sphynx and the noctuae, I ought to state that nothing which
 I have said on the vision of insects in general is applicable to
them.      The latter have, in fact, an organization- so particular
in the structure of their eyes, that there is necessarily a great
difference in the way in which vision is effected.      I thought I re
 cognised   in   these  eyes humours of different densities, and even
 a species of crystalline ; we know that there exists nothing si
 milar in the other insects.
    These are the differences which exist between order and order,
                                   T 2                               and

292 On a Substitute        for   Coffee proposed by a French         Author.
and which render the anatomy of insects so intricate, particularly
when we wish to deduce general conclusions from observations
made upon a great number of individuals.        We may also add
to these difficulties, which are immense, and which we can never
be certain of having surmounted, those which result from the
uncertainty in which we still are, respecting the organization of
the great class of articulated animals.   Indeed, these difficulties
are the greater, because the classes of articulated animals are
much less striking, and less clearly separated, than those of the
other ramifications.     Thus we cannot have recourse to analogy
to judge a priori of the organization of these animals.         The
anatomist who should take into the labours of classificators the
basis of his own researches, would run the risk of falling into
 greater errors, if he examined but one organ only, and he would
surely bring together animals separated by their whole organi
zation.
   To conclude : we may have fallen into errors in the course of
our investigation ; but, as truth was the object of all our efforts,
we trust we shall be forgiven.
XLV.      On a Substitute       for    Coffee, proposed by a French Author.
                                 To    Mr.       Tilloch.
Sir, — Trusting       that you will always have the candour, in your
valuable publication, to award the priority of any discovery to
those who may have a just right to claim                    it,
                                                    take the liberty,
                                                              I
through that channel, of suggesting, that the discovery of the
seeds of the Iris pseudacorus, or common yellow water flag, as
an excellent substitute for coffee, was not made         M. Levrat,by
as stated in the Philosophical Magazine for August, page 144,
but   by myself in the year 1809, as may be seen in the twenty-
second volume of Nicholson's Philosophical and Chemical Jour
nal, where my account of               it   is
                                     published.   And as that paper
was soon noticed           by
                          Morveau, in the Annales de Chimie, the
subject might have been suggested to M. Levrat by either of
these sources  ;  and    am happy to find that my opinion of the
                          I
Usefulness of these seeds     likely to be acted upon lor the bene
                                  is
fit of our species.
                                      I     remain, yours, &c.
 Wisbech, Sept.   6,   1814.                            Wm.   Skrimshire, Jun.
                                                                    XL VI. Bio

                              [  293    ]
    XL VI.    Biographical Sketch of the late Sir Benjamin
                    Thompson, Count of Rumford.
 Sir    Benjamin Thompson, Count of Rumford, one of the ten
 foreign Associates of the Academy of Sciences of Paris, Vice
 President of the Royal Society of London, member of many other
 scientific societies, &c, was born at Rumford, near Boston
 in America. He attracted the notice of a professor of natural
 philosophy in the university of Cambridge near Boston, who
 having remarked in him a great degree of curiosity and in
 telligence, took charge of his education.      He married a lady
 possessed of property in that country, by whom he had a daugh
ter who still lives in the city of Boston.    In the war which ter
 minated by the separation of the North American States from
 the British dominion, he attached himself to the British interest,
and raised a regiment. He was patronized by Lord George Ger-
 maine, who held a high situation at that time.    After the war he
came to London, and received the honour of knighthood from
the King. He was for some time one of the under Secretaries of
 State.    He went to travel in Germany, and at Munich was no
 ticed by the present King of Bavaria, into whose service he en
tered, and there attained an eminent situation ; and to his death
he enjoyed the munificence of that prince.      Whilst employed by
the Elector of Bavaria, he formed a system of protective police
for the city of Munich, and reformed the establishments for the
maintenance of the poor.       The public garden at Munich in Ihe
rural style was laid out at his suggestion, as were the plea
sure grounds on the space formerly occupied by the ramparts at
 Manheim. Having returned to London, he was active in esta
blishing soup kitchens for the poor, and travelled into different
parts of the British empire, with the intention of disseminating
his contrivances for the distribution of heat.    He suggested the
plan, and ardently assisted in the first formation, of the Royal
Institution in Albemarle-street. He gave to the Royal Society of
London a thousand pounds, of which the interest is to be an
nually presented to the author of the best Treatise or Experi
ment on the Subject of Heat.        Since the peace of Amiens, he
lived in Paris : he there married the accomplished Madame La
voisier, widow of the celebrated chemist : this union lasted for
a short time, and was terminated by a separation.        He resided
from that time to the day of his death at Auteuil, in the house
formerly possessed by Helvetius. This house and garden are
agreeably situated on the bank of the valley through which the-
Seine flows ; it enjoys a view of the woods round Meudon. On
the opposite bank of the valley he amused himself in decorating
this habitation, and modelling it according to his fancy, as he
                                T3                              was

 294                 On Chain Cables or Moorings.
 was wont to do in every house where he took up his residence."
  He was fond of employing the rule and the compass in drawing
  the plans for these alterations and constructions.      One of the
 last of his mechanical schemes, was the applying broad-rimmed
  wheels to his coach, with a view of diminishing the jolting that
  arise from the inequalities of the pavement, as explained in his
  paper on the subject in the Moniteur.                               -
     For many years previous to his death, he was affected with a
 cough proceeding from a morbid state of the mucous membrane
 of the larynx: in other respects he enjoyed tolerable health. His
  death (at Auteuil near Paris, in August last) was the conse
 quence of a fever.      His age was about sixty-five years.
     The faculty for which he was most remarkable in respect to
  science, was that of contriving instruments and experiments, as
  may be seen in his experiments to determine the force exerted
 in the Explosion of Gunpowder (published in the Philosophical
  Transactions), in those on the subject of Heat (published in va
 rious papers in the Philosophical Transactions,      and MSmoires
  de V Institut),   and in his contrivances for the distribution of
 heat in dwelling-houses and manufactories (published in his col
 lection entitled Philosophical Essays).
     Having passed much of his time in the army, and in the ser
  vice of princes, his hours could not be employed in constant
  study, like those of a man who becomes profoundly learned in
. mathematics,    natural philosophy, or chemistry ; but he reflected
  and speculated ingeniously on some parts of natural philosophy.
  He spoke German well, and French with fluency.          His general
  knowledge was improved by the conversation of distinguish
  ed men of learning, whose company he sought in London and
  Paris.
      He was fond of show in his domestic establishment. Studious
  of fame, eminence, and power, he -iould not but expose himself
  to opposition and detraction, and he felt acutely the attacks of
  his adversaries. In his domestic connexions, he wished too much
  to regulate the actions of his associates by his own will.
      He was above the middle size, well proportioned, not tending
  to obesity; his complexion fair; his features prominent; the cha
  racter of his countenance dignified and pleasing; his usual man
  ner and tone of voice mild.
              XLVII.    On   Chain Cables or Moorings.
  The      great importance    of safe cables for ships is known to
   every one in the slightest  degree  acquainted with maritime af
  fairs.   In circumstances of danger, the preservation of the cargo
                                                                    is

                     On Chain Cables or Moorings.                     295
4s  often a matter of great magnitude, but that of the lives of the
seamen is infinitely greater.       Like almost every thing connected
with navigation,     the   means    resorted to have, till lately, been
confined to improvements in the manufacture of cordage, and
some of these have been great ; but either from prejudice or
want of consideration, a change of the material for one of greater
strength, and less liable to be ruptured by strain, or worn away
by friction, seems never to have been even thought of.
    The first, we believe, who made any attempt to introduce a
stronger and better material for anchor cables and moorings,
was Captain Samuel Brown, of the Royal Navy.                  He had the
merit of at once adopting the best that could possibly be thought
 of, both in point of strength and oeconomy.               We mean good
tough wrought      iron;   and   had    he   not  fallen into an error in
principle in the      construction,     his  invention, as applicable to
naval purposes, would have almost defied the possibility of any
further improvement.
    This gentleman was so confident of the correctness of his
ideas respecting the superior strength and consequent safety to
be derived from iron chains in place of ropes, that he equipped
a vessel of 400 tons, the Penelope, (and which we saw some
years ago in the West India Dock,) with iron rigging, stays,
cables, &c. in which he proceeded on a voyage to Martinique
and Guadaloupe, and in four months returned to London in
perfect order, after experiencing every severity necessary to de
monstrate the efficacy of iron in place of hemp.            But the intro
duction   of iron ground tackle,       we   consider as of much greater
importance than any thing connected with the rigging.
    Since that time, iron cables have been introduced not only
into different ships in the Royal Navy, but in the merchant ser
vice, and with great success; for though some did give way in
severe weather, especially of those first made, it is but justice
to state, that even in these cases the hempen cables of the sur
rounding ships had all given way hours before, and that in most
instances the ships so furnished have kept their anchors, when
other ships parted and drove.          This important fact has been so
clearly  established    by  reports   from    the different captains who
have tried iron cables, that we confidently anticipate the day as
not very distant, when hemp will be entirely discarded from the
ground tackle of every British ship.
    We have said that, but for an error in his principle of con
struction, Captain Brown-s substitution of chain for hemp cables
would have been perfect.           This error arose from a prejudice
natural to persons who are not thorough mechanicians, or who
overlook those mathematical dicta which ought to guide every
                                   T 4                         mechanical

296                  On Chain Cablcs or Moorings.
mechanical      arrangement — an idea that a certain portion of
 elasticity should be given to the chain.          To attain thi6 ideal
 advantage, a certain degree of twist, equal to nearly one-fourth
 of a revolution, was given to each link ; so that, when a strain
comes upon the chain, it never finds any part of any portion of
it in that situation which would present the greatest resistance
to a change of figure.       In such a chain, every strain makes an
effort to bring every link into that form which it ought to have
had in its first construction : and in proportion as the strain
effects this, so far the links have been weakened, by having the
particles of which they are respectively composed placed in a
new order, at the expense of the corpuscular attraction exerted
by these particles individually for these to which they are most
contiguous.
    That this derangement of particles, and consequent diminution
of strength, does take place in twisted links, is plain from
what happens in proving the chains composed of such links :         " a
cable for a ship of 400 tons will stretch during this operation,
in a whole cable nearly thirty feet ! and will recover about
ten*," when the strain is taken off! What a derangement is
                                                                        '
here ! When we look at this, and contemplate the injury hereby
inflicted on the materials, we confess that we are not surprised
that some of these chains have given way. That any of them
should stand after sustaining such an injury, furnishes, perhaps,
the strongest evidence that could be adduced, of the superiority
of iron over hemp for the purposes of a cable.
    It is the more surprising that Captain Brown should have
fallen into this mistake respecting elasticity, having himself de
tected and exposed its fallacy as to hemp : "There cannot (says
he) even be any certain advantage deduced from the portion of
elasticity which cordage is known to possess ; for the force
which caused its extension may be extended for a considerable
time after the cable has been stretched to its utmost limits :" —
of course, under a further strain it must break.         He might have
added,   that   every lengthening   of a rope by strain is accompanied
with the rupture of a certain number of its fibres : every re
petition of the force ruptures more of them, and thus in time it
becomes unserviceable.         There is no stretching without this
partial rupturing : and it is equally true, that no change in the
relative position of the particles of matter in the link of a chain
can be induced without a proportionate rupturing, injurious to
its strength, taking place, though not perceptible to the eye. .
    Were it even true that the giving of a hempen cable was in
   *
      Observations on the Patent Iron Cables invented by Captain Samuel
Brown.
                                                                     Us
                                                                          t

                      On Chain Cobles or Moorings.                              297
 its favour, the iron cable, from its superior gravity and the con
 sequent weight of its curve, (an advantage justly appretiated by
  Captain Brown,) possesses more capability >of giving                e. of
                                                                          (i.
 lengthening the distance between          the   points of resistance)              by
 the first effect of every strain, namely, an effort to straighten the
 chain, than any cable can           by
                                    stretching.     The elasticity, there
 fore, which Captain Brown gives to his chain, presents no one
 benefit to compensate in the slightest degree for the injury done
 to the iron,    bygiving   it form unfavourable to the resistance of
                                 a
 violence.
     The defect, and       it a most serious one, which attaches to
                                is
 the construction of Captain Brown-s chain, has been most hap
 pily obviated in another mode of construction, for which the
 inventor, Mr. Thomas Brunton, of the Commercial Road, has
 likewise obtained     apatent.    In Mr. Brunton-s chain cable, that
 arrangement which can most effectually resist every solicitation
 to change the form of any of the links — or, in other words, that
-form of link which shall present the substance of the iron in the
 best possible position for bringing the whole mass into equal
 action when assailed           by
                             an external force, has been most suc
 cessfully adopted.     Nor do we hesitate to state our firm con
 viction, that   iftwo chains made of iron of the same size and
 quality, one on Capt. Brown's construction, and one on Mr.
 Brunton-s, were tried against each other, the latter would tear
 the former asunder, while itself would remain uninjured.             In            a
 word, such are the science and skill displayed in the construction
 of Mr. Brunton-s link, that we think         it   byno means possible to
 improve   it,  the whole strength and substance of every link be
 ing brought into equal action on every application of a strain.
     Mr. Brunton-s specification of his invention          at once so ex
                                                          is
 plicit, and at the same time     drawn    up  in such   popular form, as
                                                         a
 to preclude the possibility of his principle being misunderstood.
 We shall give his description in his own words.
Specification    of   Mr. Brunton-s       Improvements in         the   Construe-
                                                                               '
                  tion     of   Chain Cables or Moorings.                       •
   " To   convey correct ideas respecting my improvements in the
construction of chain cables or moorings,         necessary that
                                                    it   is                         I
should point out and illustrate the principles which should guide
the workman in his operations.       These, when thoroughly un
derstood, will not only enable him to avail himself of my im
provements after the expiration of the said term     but will qua
                                                              ;
lify him  to detect, and consequently   to avoid, those errors and
mistakes in form and construction which prevail, more or less,
in all the chains that have hitherto been employed for cables or
moorings.     The object to be gained        the greatest possible
                                               is
                                                                         strength

 298               On Chain Cables or Moorings.
6trength from a given quantity of materials, keeping in mind the
direction in which the strain is to be borne.     If the tendency of
a strain applied to a link of a bad form be once properly con
ceived, a great step is gained towards the adoption of a good
form.    Let AB, fig. 1, (Plate V.) represent a circular link of a
chain,  the substance of the iron one inch.    Let the outer circum
ference be fifteen inches, and let the inner circumference be nine
inches.    If receding forces be applied to the two links C and
D (shown in section), pulling C towards E, and D towards
F, the ultimate tendency of the effort of such forces is to change
the form of the circular link into one which shall have round
ends and parallel sides, as figure 2 : but a very slight examina
tion will show that, before this can be effected, the link must
be destroyed : for in such a circular link the corresponding seg
ments of the outer and inner circumferences are in the propor
tion of 5 to 3; and therefore every effort to increase the distance
between C and D, or, in other words, to make the parts A and B
approximate, must disturb the relative position of every particle
of the metal, and operate to destroy its corpuscular attraction.
Thus (in figure 1), the segment MN of the outer circumference
being taken equal to three inches, the corresponding segment of
the inner circumference will be one inch and eight-tenths of an
inch. If this segment of the link is by the force of a strain to
be changed from a curved to a straight form (as in figure 2),
the corresponding segments of the outer and inner circumference
must be brought to one length ; to effect which, the matter
contained in three ine-hes of the outer circumference must be
compressed into one inch and eight-tenths of an inch, or the
matter which now occupies only one inch and eight-tenths of
an inch in the inner circumference, must be made to dilate itself
to three inches without losing its cohesion, or the required
compression and expansion must be divided between the two ;
all of which are impossible without a derangement of the relative
position of every particle in the mass. — To be brief : the matter
in this part of the outer circumference may be conceived to pre
sent an infinite number of fulcrums, over which the said receding
forces, by an effort to render the curve straight, must rupture
and separate the matter of the inner circumference.       Nor is this
the only  mischief  that must  occur, as will appear by  a consider
ation of what must take place where the link folds round C and
D ; for the larger semi-circles in figure 2, each containing four
inches and a half (nearly) of the outer circumference, answering
to two inches and seven-tenths of an inch of the inner circum
ference of figure 1, must now correspond to the semi-circum
ference of the links C and D, which are each only one inch and
a half (nearly); so that in these parts the effect, produced by the
                                                               action

                                                                                        ''
                               On Chain Cables or Moorings.                                  b
                                                                                                     299
        action of the said forces, would be the same as in the former,
        but reversed in its operation : that                 is,
                                               the matter in these parts
        of the inner circumference presents an infinite number of ful-
      crums, over which the outer circumference must be ruptured and
      separated      bythe said forces.           circular
                                                        A        therefore a bad
                                                                         is
      form  ; but from the foregoing              obvious, that
                                                   it   is            the parts   if                      A
      and   B of the circular link, figure          can be prevented from ap
                                                        1
                                                        ,
      proximating each other, the evil that has been pointed out will
      be lessened.     Suppose a stay AGB to be introduced for this
      purpose, and, as before, let receding forces be employed in the
      directions CE and DF, what will be the effect                  The circular
                                                                              ?
      link will now be able, to resist greater force than before, having
                                               a
      two points of support       but the unsupported parts between the
                                   ;
      points   C,    B,   and
                          D        A,
                                    will,      the effort of the said force, en
                                                   by
      deavour to assume        quadrilateral form, somewhat like figure
                               a                                                                      3   :
      a change that cannot be effected without               derangement of the
                                                                    a
      matter in the link, which must rupture and destroy it.                  Such
      stays as AGB (figures         and1      have been used in chains; but
                                               3)
      such a stay only supports two opposite points in the link                 and              ;
    I    have shown that the tendency of receding forces, applied as be-
»     fore described,      to straighten and consequently to rupture the
                          is
      parts that are still left unsupported. — My said improvements in
      chain cables or moorings are founded on considerations drawn
      from the facts that have been alluded to.                      circular link,
                                                                         If   a
      instead of being supported only in the two opposite points
    A     and   B, have its opposite sides supported                     by
                                                                a stay embracing
      two considerable    and   opposite segments, suppose HI and KL,
      by the stay HIKL, taking care to leave such openings as shall
      allow sufficient play for the links to be received into              the link    it,
      will be much stronger than with such a stay as AGB but still                     :
      the link will prove to be of          bad form; for the tendency of re
                                               a
      ceding   forces, applied  as  before,  would break the piece MOKCH,
    . over the point     C,  as     fulcrum; and the piece NPLDI,' over
                                       a
      the point D, as     afulcrum.       And moreover, even         circular links
                                                                              if
      could be made unobjectionable as to strength, they should be
      avoided, on account of the greater weight of metal which a given
      length of chain would require than when formed of links of a
       less exceptionable     form.     We have seen that the tendency of
       receding forces, applied     to  curved   links,       to draw portions of
                                                                    is
      them into straight forms            and hence
                                           ;               follows, that twisted
                                                                   it
       links of every kind should be avoided where strength               required     is                 ;
       for such links, even        their opposite sides be supported
                                   if                                             an                 by
     'interposed stay, like AGB, must, by the application of                   suffi-            a
    .  cient strain, untwist themselves to become straight, and thus
    . have the arrangement of their particles disturbed.               As the ten
                                                                              dency

 300    .«         On Chain Cables or Moorings.
 dency of forces applied as before mentioned to curved or twisted
 links is to convert the curves or distortions into straight portions,
 as above described ; . it follows, that links presenting in their
original construction,' straight parts between the points of strain,
 are the strongest that can be made with an equal portion of
 metal ; and hence, links with parallel sides and semi-circular
 ends would in every case be preferred, were it not necessary to
 the quality of good chain, that it should be able to resist lateral
 violence as well as a general strain operating by stretching.
 Suppose that by any accident the link figure 2 should have its
 ends drawn towards Y and Z, while a resisting body at X op
poses its motion in the direction of the applied forces, the side
 of the link next to X would be bent inward ; and if in such a
 link a stay like AGB were introduced, then the link would be
 solicited by the said force to assume a form somewhat like
 figure 4. From the preceding considerations it is evident that,
of all the forms and constructions that can be given to a link,
 that form and construction which shall be able to convert a la
teral into an end strain, by yielding proper support to the op
 posite sides of the link, is the one that should be preferred : and
 of such a form and construction is the link figure 5, with my
broad-ended stay introduced between the sides of the link; for, if
this link (which presents its principal substance and all its points
of resistance in the same place) be drawn towards a and h,
against an obstacle c, it is apparent, from a bare inspection, that
the parts de and df, which are supported by the parts ge and
gf, must be drawn asunder before the link can give way : for the
 matter in eg&ndfg cannot be made to penetrate itself, and
 the two sides are compelled to retain their relative positions by
my interposed broad-ended stay             a cross section of which
through its middle is shown in figure 6. I need hardly add, that
at the time that the stay h is introduced the link is wide enough
to receive it ; and the link being red hot at the time of its in
troduction, and being pressed home to the stay by a die or press,
or any suitable mechanical means, takes a fast hold of it, and
retains it in its place.   Other ways of introducing and retaining
in its place my broad-ended stay may be employed ; but I have
found the preceding exceedingly simple and efficacious.             On
my broad-ended stays I have only further to remark, that they
should embrace the whole or the greater portion of the opposite
curved parts of the middle of the link ; and even if the middle
of the link be made to form two opposite obtuse angles, the ends
of the stay should not embrace much less than the proportion
exhibited in figure 5. But in making the said ends to embrace
any larger portions, provided sufficient room is left for the play

                           Cn Chain Cables or Moorings.                             301
    of the links received into    it,   there will be no harm ;   only the chain
'   will thereby   be rendered heavier,          which may sometimes, though
    not generally, be desirable."
        In the preceding specification, every position          which
                                                                in        link  a
    can be exposed to force has been noticed, except one, which we
    have shown     infig.   but
                            7-    it fair to state, that any hempen cable
                                       is
    exposed to     aforce to be overcome in a bend as small as the
    space at C, between the links       and B, would soon be cut in two;
                                            A
    and that no obstacle of the same dimensions, as                projecting
                                                                      a
    angle   of rock   or  coral, would    present   sufficient  resistance   to
    break the middle link, having no cohesion of parts at all com
    parable to that of the iron.
         The broad-headed stay we consider as an improvement of the
    first importance in chains.        Captain Brown employed sharp-
    ended pins in the middle of his links, the two ends of which
    evidently present fulcrums over which the link may be broken                      ;
    but the broad-headed stay, introduced                 Mr. Brunton, and
                                                         by
    embracing     as large   portion
                             a        as  convenience     will permit of the
    sides of the link, tends, as much as any thing can, to give that
    undisturbable rigidity       we may use the expression) which
                                 (if                                                  is
     indispensable, whatever uninformed people may imagine, to
     the perfection of      chain intended to possess the greatest pos
                            a
     sible strength that can be obtained from a given quantity of
     material.
        The public, we think, have been laid under great obligations
     both to Captain Brown and Mr. Brunton — to the former, for
     introducing the iron cable, and combating the prejudices of the
     public in favour of hemp — to the latter, for perfecting the cable
     chain.   It    impossible to anticipate the advantages which will
                   is
     accrue to the public from the general adoption of iron cables.
     Many, many will be the lives which will be saved
                       !                                        this in    by
     vention ;  not to speak of the saving  of property, which, though
     of great importance in national point of view,
                                   a                         but of seis
     condary consideration.     Such     our opinion of the safety to be
                                                is
      derived from the use of iron in place of hemp, that we have no
     doubt whatever, that, were ships generally furnished with       good       a
     scope   of chain, of proper weight,  and   of the best construction,
     not one instance out of hundred that now occur, of ships being
                                  a
     lost on lee shore, would take place.
             a                                 In rocky anchorage, hemp
     is cut to pieces in a short time in rough weather      but chain re
                                                                  ;
     ceives no other injury than that of a little rubbing or polishing,
     and the weight of the bight of the latter gives amazing ease to
     the tossing vessel — giving way to the swelling wave that elevates
      the ship, and then acting          by
                                    its gravity to keep her as stationary
     •as circumstances will permit.          ..      :

302                     On Chain Cables or Moorings.
   The following are the proportions of the chain cables on Mr;
Brunton's principle, compared with hemp cables. We have
copied them from one of the cards circulated by Brunton and
Middleton, the manufacturers, and who warrant them :
        inch diameter iron for
         'g-                       inch rope proof
                                          9            tons       2
                                                                  1
         1          A                     10                      18
         lx                               11                      26
         1|                               12                      32
         ItV                              13                      35
         If                               14 or 15                38
         1|                               16                      44
         H                                17                      52
         1|                               18                      60
         1*                           20                       70
         2                            22 or 24                 80
    The above proofs     to   which the  respective   sizes  are  subjected,
 would break the hempen cables for which each                issubstituted ;
 but the chains would bear twice the strain stated, before giving
 way.     They are never, however, exposed, in proof, to greater       a
 strain, and for    a good reason — Every strain greater than that
 to which the vessel for which      it    intended could bring upon
                                          is                               it,
 would   be  an unnecessary exposure to        partial rupturing of some
                                               a
 part of the material    ;  and consequently would take from its pri
 mitive strength    ; which   it  ought fully to possess when exposed
 to the regular performance of its duty.
    On this point we may notice one circumstance so plain that
it  must strike every man of common sense               but there are so
                                                         ;
 many   fools  in the world, that   too  much   care cannot be taken to
 guard against the consequences which might flow from their in
 attention.    A   chain made for a certain strain — say as          substi
                                                                       a
 tute for the cable of a ship of given tonnage — should never, on
                                    a a
                                      vessel of greater tonnage.        This
 any pretext, be employed for
isa  point  of so much  importance,    that    should
                                               it      not  in  the smallest
 degree be left to the discretion of any individual to depart from
 it. The best means, perhaps, that can be devised to prevent an
abuse of this kind, and the consequences that might flow from it,
would be, for the underwriters at Lloyd's to insist on the exhibition
of proper certificate, to prove that the scale of size has not been
     a
departed from, before they admit the ship to be properly equip
ped.     If this be attended to, the chain cable will continue ca
pable of bearing the strain for which            was intended, however
                                                it
often repeated, till    a failure   induced
                                   is             fair tear and wear, or
                                                    by
ihe actual decay of the material, which would probably require a
term longer than the ship itself would list.          How many hempen
cables would be worn out in that time              If we are rightly in
                                                    !
formed, West Indiamen, on an average, require their cabks to
                                                                           be

                   On Fire Damps in Coal Mines.                     303
be renewed every two years, and East Iudiamen require a re
newal every voyage.     In point of oeconomy, therefore, as well
as safety, iron cables are far preferable to those of hemp.  T,
              XLVIII.         On Fire Damp in Coal Mines.
                                To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, — A. valuable       paper at the commencement of the thirty-
fifth volume of the Philosophical      Magazine, on the subject of
Damps     in  Mines, has  made   me and  others very anxious to hear
further from the very intelligent and practical author of that pa
per, particularly since the dreadful accidents which have suc
cessively happened at Felling Colliery near Newcastle.           I am
induced to trouble you on this subject at present, in consequence.
of having just read in a periodical work, the recent opinion of a
gentleman at Newcastle, ascribing the copious generation of
hydrogenous gas in Felling Colliery, to the decomposition of the
water, brought in contact with a large surface of bad and py-
ritic small coals, that are dug from under the marketable seam
of that colliery (in the process of holing or undermining the
eoals, as I undertand), and are left in the old workings.
    To which very probable source of the evil, as it appears to
me, the editor of the work alluded to, has opposed the following
remarks : viz. " I do not see how the presence of pyrites in
coal should occasion or increase the evolution of carburetted hy
drogen, which there is every reason to consider as the only fire
damp that ever makes its appearance in coal mines :" and then
he goes on to state, that fire-damp is peculiar to deep coal-pits,
and is unknown in shallow ones ! : and that from the comparative
levity of inflammable air, explosions would be unknown,
                                                               " if the
mines were ventilated according to the well known principles of
hydraulics ;" that      is,
                          this gas was let or drawn off at the highest
                          if
point without his seeming to be aware, that the accidental and
     :
progressive falling of the roofs of most coal-pits, occasions nu
merous higher places or dome-like cavities, above the old hollows,
and even over the gates and passages in too many instances,
wherein  it   isimpossible to prevent the lighter gases, where they
abound, from accumulating.               Itoften to the falling of
                                              is                      a
large flake from the roof of work, and driving the hydrogenous
                                     a
gas down before    itto the candles of the workmen, that explosions
are to be attributed.     Hoping, through your Magazine, to hear
the opinions of some well informed practical miners on these
subjects,I    remain, yours, &c.
 '
    Oct 1814.                                       An Engineer.
V                                                           XLIX.    On

                                [  304    ]
   XLIX.     Question respecting the lest Process for obtaining
                        Copper in a pure State.
                            To  Mr. Tillock.
Sir, —  I  beg leave, through the medium of your publication, to
         the  favour of any of your correspondents to inform me
request
of the best process for obtaining copper in a pure state, fit for
alloying gold, and for manufacturing delicate gold-coloured arti
cles, without occasioning brittleness in the gold.       The fine cop
per employed in the trade for the purpose of melting with gold,
was formerly imported from Germany, and is now not to be pro
cured.     The ductility of gold alloyed with the fine copper now
kept   on  sale, may indeed be restored by repeated melting and
hammering the alloy; but these processes occasion loss.           I, as
well as others, have tried the processes recommended in the
most popular works on Chemistry : the gold which they afford
is not pure.     Sir Humphry Davy, in his Elements of Chemical
Philosophy, page 415, mentions a method very little different
from those of other writers : but the gold alloyed with copper
thus obtained is always brittle ; whereas the German or Dutch
copper does not impair the ductility of gold in any degree what
ever.    It would be doing a material service to a certain class of
manufacturers, to have instructions from some of your correspon
dents to manufacture this article.
                  1 am, sir,
                                              /
                           Your most obedient humble servant,
   Birmingham.                                       DAVID LLOYD.
                     L. On Fulminating Silver.
                             To  Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, —   In   your last number, the folly and danger of allowing
mischievous boys the use of packets containing            fulminating
nitrate of silver are very properly exposed.           All knowledge
however is useful, although -its occasional misapplication may be
partially injurious.     This is particularly applicable to the use of
fulminating powder, which may be converted into an instrument
of household protection, in times like the present, when im
mense numbers of individuals feel more inclined to rob than
work for a living.       Its application to this purpose is equally
simple   and  safe.   Let  prepared packets of this fulminating pow
der,  such  as  were   lately sold for idle and foolish purposes, be
placed round windows and doors likely to be assailed hy robbers,
every night, and removed every morning ; and should any attack
                                                                     be

         Dr.  Spurzheim's    demonstrative   Course  of Lectures.   305
  be made, or any of those windows or doors be forced open, the
  consequent explosion of the fulminating powder must serve at
  once to alarm the robbers, and awaken the inmates to a sense
  of their danger.' Were it once generally known that all houses
  are supplied with these instruments of alarm, very few or no
  robbers would venture on breaking into them by the doors or
  windows.      Nor would thare be the smallest danger in such ex
  plosions ; for, however properly the magistrates acted in pro
  hibiting the misuse of fulminating balls, &c. it is certain that, if
  properly prepared, neither paper nor wood could be ignited by
 their explosion.     The ingenious Mr. Accum, of Compton Street,
  has prepared fulminating silver, and made it up iu various safe
 forms, which could be used for the purpose here proposed ; and
 it would well become the magistrates to show as much zeal in this
 useful application of a chemical discovery, as they did in pre
 venting its abuse.      But, whatever may be the opinions of magi
 strates, it is certain that every prudent housekeeper will adopt
 some plan of protecting his property from the nocturnal depreda
 tions of trained bands of robbers, and gladly avail himself of at
 least a cheap means of alarm, if not of defence against danger.
                                    Yours, &c.
                                                          Chemicus.
   LI. Dr. Sfurzhei^i's demonstrative Course of Lectures on
      Drs. Gall and Spurzheim's Physiognomonical System.
 The     introductory   lecture gave a clear and comprehensive view
 of the subject proposed to     be explained in the course ; and Dr.
 Spurzheim     stated that  he had  called his lectures demonstrative,
 because he intended to show by sensible characters on real skulls
 the basis on which his physiognomical system is founded.           He
 defended the science of physiognomy, after Lavater, by observ
 ing that all men are physiognomists, and that they only want
 the knowledge of reducing their observations to a system, to
 give them permanency and greater accuracy.              To methodize
 those observations is the principal object of his plan.       The fa
 culties, he observed, never depend on the temperaments, which
are merely physical; but the manifestations of the mind are
 known only by the organization of the body : we cannot perceive
 mind, but only its effects on the body; and from these effects we
judge of its existence and its powers. When the same effects are
 uniformly attended with the same characters of mind, we de
duce our knowledge of the latter from the former ; although, ia
fact, it may be that the phvsical effects are only the visible con-
    Vol.44. No. 19S. Oct. 1814.                 U            sequences

306      Dr.  Spurzheim's   demonstrative Course   of Lectures
sequences    of the operations of the mind, which is itself invisible-.
This deduction of the character of mind from the visible appear
ances of the body, neither favours materialism nor fatalism, as al
leged by the opponents of the science ; the organs of the brain
being only the material conditions of the mind-s peculiar manifes
tations. This Dr. S. proves, by observing, that although the five
•enses exist in all men, yet they are not necessarily obliged always
tobe active : we are not under the necessity of perpetually enjoying
odours or music, although the senses of hearing and smelling must
always exist in the living body.      The anatomists, and not the
moralists or divines, have been the first to accuse physiognomy
of having an injurious tendency. The moralists possess most
knowledge of human nature, are the most enlightened and best
informed class of men : the philosophers, solely engrossed with
some favourite pursuit, judge of all other men by their own
feelings; whereas the moralists observe the manners and actions
in general, compare, reason, and draw just conclusions o» the
conduct of men in society.        Yet physical and moral truth are
 the same ; both must be founded in nature : laws and religious
opinions are permanent, according as they have this foundation.,
or are only founded on extraneous circumstances. Dr. S. proved the
 advantages of physiognomy to artists, physicians, teachers, moralists
 and legislators, as all knowledge is useful when well applied. He
showed various skulls and models, to prove that where there
was little or no brain there was a corresponding want of mental
faculties; the heads of idiots without almost any forehead illustrated
this truth, especially when contrasted with those of philosophers,
as Bacon, Newton, Shakcspear,         Milton, Voltaire, Haydn, &c.
The skulls of malefactors were also contrasted with those of di
 vines ; the general difference between the skulls of males and
 females clearly ascertained. Women in general are less profound
 reasoners than men, and indulge more in feeling; their skulls
 are therefore longer and smaller, they are less elevated before,
 and project more behind, than men's.          The ancients correctly
 observed this difference, as appears by the statues of their gods
 and goddesses, heroes, philosophers, and gladiators ; the latter
 have always the back part of the head strongly marked and pro
 tuberant.     The bust of Nelson, if correct, he observed, differed
 from that of the heroes of antiquity j but its accuracy is more
 than problematical.
     Led. 1 . Dr. S. exhibited Lavater's supposed gradation of the.
  ftead of a frog to that of the Apollo Belvidere, through nearly
  50 changes. The object, he said, of his lectures is double; to
 present anatomical demonstration ; and the proofs that mind
                                                             manifests

  •« DrS.   Gall and Spurxheim's Physiognomonical System. 307
manifests itself only by the organization.      Mind is not material,
the brain being only its instrument or organ : the bone or skull
is not the brain ; neither is eraniology to be understood as treat
ing of the cranium, but of the physiology of the brain.              The
»kull only bears the marks of the brain, whence its form and
existence are inferred. The brain contains all the faculties ; which
we know onlv by their manifestations : a man may possess a faculty
Or disposition for music; but we cannot say Whether sacred or pro
fane music be his study: we may discover the susceptibility or pre
disposition , but not the precise character or appl ication of that pow
er ; it is the latent, and not the determinate action, which is in
dicated bv the character or configuration of the brain. Physical
diseases of the brain are not accompanied with corresponding ones
of the mind ; all the cerebral parts are double : as we have two
eyes, two ears, and two nostrils, so have we two brains : hence
a partial loss of brain destroys not the mental faculties, any
more than the loss of an eye or an ear, the sense of seeing or
hearing.     Our observations, however, are here very imperfect,
As there may be many defects in the faculties of persons having
wounded brains, which are never noticed by casual observers. —
 Case (the 14th, seen by the lecturer) of a hydrocephalic patient,
A young man of 1 9, in London, whose skull is greatly enlarged
With water ; it measures 23 inches in circumference, and ap
pears like a turban on an agreeable countenance.           Water sepa
rates the lobes of the brain horizontally, and not perpendicular
ly ; it never lodges next the cranium, hut always in the interior
parts of the brain, which seldom contains above two spoonfuls. —
Ossification of the brain, an imaginary disease. If ossification
 could be proved, the whole craniological system must be aban
doned, as Dr. S. attaches more importance to the brain than all
preceding physiologists ; he considers it not only the seat of the
mind, but of all the moral sentiments and affections.               Two
Italian anatomists found an ox with what they supposed an ossi
fied brain : they acknowledged, however, that the animal was not
only without brain, but also without nerves ; although he ap
peared in a perfect state, and with all his senses ! What is called
 Ossified brain, is nothing but bony excrescences found in the
skull : the lecturer has seen nine different specimens of such
osseous matter, preserved in cabinets, erroneously supposed to
be ossified brain ; but many of them were of very different figures,
and much larger than the original brain of the animals in whose
heads they were found. — Small brain of an ox, crocodile, tiger,
and tortoise weighing 3001bs, contrasted with that of man.
Brain is absolutely necessary to mind and to moral sentiment;
it is not in the viscera, but in the brain, where feeling exists : al
                                ii 2                              though

    308         Dr. Spurzheim's demonstrative Course of Lectures
     though all languages have the expression
                                                       " a good heart,** yet
     the feeling is in the head. So, of all the other affections, shame
     manifests itself in the skin of the face, yet we never say that the
     feeling of shame is in the skin : sorrow makes us shed tears ; but
    we do not thence say that it exists in the lachrymal glands : it is
     sympathy which produces these effects.            Measure, or absolute
.    dimension, is no criterion of mind : elephants have a larger brain.
     than man, apes and dogs less than an ox.            Artists err in sup
     posing any relative proportion between the head, mental facul
     ties, and the dimensions of the body.         The Venus de Medicis
     has a head quite too small for nature ; it would be the face of an
    idiot if animated. — Camper's facial angle taken from the jaw to
     the ear and the top of the forehead.         The more acute this an-.
    gle,  the more  intellect,  or the greater  the  powers of mind. This
     conclusion untenable,     and contradicted by facts: it would operate
     against two very intelligent Negroes now learning the British
     System of Education at the Borough-road School, in order to
     practise it in their own country (many of the weakest men in
    this country have this facial angle very acute). No proportion
    of parts can be established, not even between the brain, cere
    brum, and cerebellum ; some have a large, others a small cerebel
    lum, without any peculiar characteristic.            Women, generally
    reasoning less and feeling more than men, have less brain in
    front, and more behind. — Every one has a peculiar talent, a bia$
    for one thing or another ; can follow one pursuit till fatigued with
    it,  and then apply to another       one organ rests while another
                                           ;                             is
    occupied. This      owing to the plurality of the organs of the brain,
                        is
    which, when all are at rest, produce perfect sleep       ;   when only
                                                                         a
    part rests, dreaming      the consequence. — Somnambulism prevails
                                 is
    when many of the organs of sense are active, but when too many of
    them are still at rest to give willto the person somnambulists
                                      a                  :
    can often not only walk, but see and hear yet, the whole organs
                                                    ;
    and powers of the mind not being awakened from sleep, they have
    nowill. — Visions are occasioned           by
                                            transferring internal sensations
    to external objects     these, permanent, become actual diseases,
                             :        if
    real insanity.    This diseased state, the patient being perfectly
    well excepting in some one point, proves the plurality of the
    organs, and also the necessity of all to make            a  perfectly ra
    tional being.     Dr. S. related several cases of this kind of topical
    insanity.
       Led.      Means of determining the faculties
                 2.                                      by
                                                      the functions
    of the brain. Anatomy does not show these functions, and struc
    ture    no guide
           is          but anatomical structure
                       ;                          not contrary to the
                                                    is
    functions  or  physiology of the  bruin, —  No inferences to be
          ..                                                   drawa

   on Drs.  Gall and Spurzheim's     Physiognomonical System.      309
 drawn from partial sections of the living brain, as the animal is in
jured by either vertical or lateral sections, and consequently cannot
 evince its faculties. — No general organs of feeling or sensation can
 be indicated ; the functions of the brain and the signs of the dis
 position of the mind are the same.— Every thing in nature is
 more powerful in proportion to its mass : the larger the muscular
 fibre, the greater the force or energy : the more considerable
 the nerve, the more energetic the function. — Necessary distinc
 tion between functions and the conditions of those functions, as
 they may be active or passive. — Temperament adds to etiergy,
 exercise improves the faculties : consequently the whole grounds
 of judging are very compound and complex. — Size is sufficient
 to indicate the function, although mere dimension of muscle is
no index of strength : the same applies to the five senses, and to
 the organs of the brain.     Size contributes to energy ; and from
 the external configuration of the head, that of the brain may be
 ascertained. — Want of parallelism between the tables of the. skull
 (the two hard bones on the outer and inner sides of the cranium,
 between which is the cellular substance called diploe) no argument
 against the accuracy of our knowledge of the shape, parts, and
 functions of the brain : the contrast of different heads and skulls
 with and without the hair and integuments only proves the lat
 ter to be much less, but not of a different configuration. — Nerves
 are large in proportion to their expansions ; (olfactory nerves of
 a calf larger than those of a man) hence the functions             are
judged of by the external expansions, which determine the whole
 organization.
    Practical application of this system. — Skulls too large or too
 small indicate disease or idiotism. Size of the antique not found
in nature. The configuration only to be considered or relied on :
 bony excrescences or projections not to be confounded with or
 ganic developments.      All persons have all the organs ; but in
some they are more developed than in others, indicating a par
 ticular exertion or bias of the mind.      One exception, a child in
 Paris was found without the lateral convolutions.        Fibres of the
 brain long or short, thick or thin : the long and thick have
greater energy ; the long and small, or thin, disposition, acti
vity, but neither energy nor success.       A groove in the posterior
part of the skull indicates that the two hemispheres of the brain
are separated a little, and a greater development may be ex
pected on the sides. Anatomists often call every bony elevation
 above the eyes, a frontal sinus ; but the sinus is contiguous to
the eyes, and all elevations above it are organic developments of
 functions. Various depressions of the eyes outwards, downwards,
 (which swells the under eye-lids,) upwards, inwards, and project-
                                  US        v                       ing

    310     Dr. Spurzheim's demonstrative Course of Lectures
    ing prominency, all of which   are occasioned by the pressure of the
    brain and its functions, as highly developed organs, often push
    others out of their places.    The most elevated points in a skull,
    placed in different positions, always indicate the centre of the
    organ.     In examining a skull, notice first the most prominent
    parts :  if  there be only one peculiar prominence, it is easily dis
    covered ; if a great many, more acuteness and accuracy of ob-
-   servation are necessary.      According as the convolutions are
    transverse or lateral, so are the elevations of the skull.  Size in
    dicates the organs, but not the application ; the power, but not
    the mode of exercising it.      Here the want of parallelism in the
    tables of the skull is by far too trifling to attract attention or
    calculation ; the physiognomist must always have more conspi
    cuous characters or marks to direct him.        Great elevations on
    the skull always indicate a peculiar bias of the mind.
         Lect. 3. There are threestates in which the physiognomical
    system cannot be  rigorously employed ; in infancy, old age, and
    disease.  The brain grows like the rest of the body ; and as we
    cannot say what size and figure it may attain, neither can we
    determine how much it may have diminished by absorption in
    old age, nor how far the space between the tables is increased
    at any particular period.     As the brain diminishes, the interior-
    table adapts itself to    it,
                               and the space between the outer and
    inner table increases :  hence in old age and chronic insanity,
    as well as infancy, no physiognomical judgement can be formed
    from the external configuration. Madmen have generally thicker,
    heavier, or denser skulls than sane persons; of which examples
    were shown. Many suicides have skulls of the same description                  ;
    suicidism sometimes       adisease, occasionally an tpidemic, and
    often national.   In Austria last year there were only 33 suicides         ;
    in Paris there were as many every month.          At Hamburgh and
    in the North suicides are numerous. As to the causes of cranial
    configurations, they are foreign to this inquiry   :  we know little
     of original causes, it    quite sufficient to know facts
                              is                                 :   itim is
    material   to the  physiognomist,   whether    muscles, brain,  or  the
    fleshy integuments,  occasion   the configurations of the skull       :   it   is.
    enough that he knows,      by
                                innumerable observations deduced from
    experience, that such and such appearances are always accom
    panied    bysuch and such characters of mind.     It    however cer
                                                           is
    tain that the muscles do not, as some anatomists have supposed,
     change the form of the bones, as unborn infants, before the
    muscles come into action, have skulls of different forms. The brain
    is formed before the skull     as the former increases,
                                    :                            deposits
                                                                 it
    essedus matter, which radiates from     a   centre, and     by
                                                               successive
                                                               radiation*

 *on   Dn. Gall   and Spurttheim's Pkysiognomonkal System.         311
  radiations a complete skull is formed.     It was observed that the
  skulls of females are long,  and project backward    : now it is evi
  dent that this form cannot be owing to the muscles, which do
  not act horizontally. As the brain enlarges, so does it deposit
  osseous matter according to its own peculiar figure.       This pro
 cess is ascertained by observing the fact, that if an eye be extir
  pated, its orbit soon becomes contracted, in consequence of the
 deposition of bony matter. The ridge, or vertical elevation, often
 seen in the forehead of children, does not experience any dimi
 nution; but it becomes gradually less apparent by the increase
 of the adjoining parts.     Cranial elevations and depressions have
 forms totally different from those of the insertion of muscles, and
 exist where there are no muscular insertions.       The alleged me-
 ehanical pressure on the heads of the Caribs, as stated by travel
 lers, Dr. S. thinks can have no influence in giving their foreheads
 that flatness for which they are remarkable.      The skull is very
 strong, and well formed to resist injuries, consequently must re
 quire a very great force to change its natural form; and such a
force cannot be applied to the forehead without a counter-pres
 sure or opposite resistance, which would necessarily produce a
very different form of the skull. — He next considered the phy
 siognomical signs. Dr. Gall, while he followed the opinions of the
schools, long laboured in vain to discover the organs ; his great
est difficulty was to discover the faculties.      There is no organ
of instinct ; and the opinions and language of philosophers re
 specting it, memory, judgement, imagination,         affections, and
passions, are more erroneous than the common language, which
is consonant with nature.      In the agony of disappointment and
uncertanty, Gall said to himself,    "I   know nothing," and began
de novo to study men, as a Linnaean botanist does an unknown
plant. He observed men-s actions, and compared them with
.their cerebral organization ; examined individuals who excelled
in some one thing alone, and traced the co-existence of this
particular characcer with some specific appearance, or prominent
organ, on the skull.     He continued his observations, and ascer
tained, from an immense number of examples, that different ex
ternal characters always accompany different characters of mind,
and that the same configuration of the head is uniformly attend
ed by sameness of intellectual character : he also examined the
negative traits, and finally deduced from experience, that certain
elevations on the skull have certain mental characters.         If such
an energy or faculty of mind, he argued, be always attended, as
according to his experience it unqxiestionably     is,   bycertain or
gans   or configurations of the skull, then   must  the  same conclu-
                                 U 4                               siou

*Jl2    Dr. Spurzheim's        demonstrative    Course   of Lectures.
sion be drawn, as in every other department of natural and phy
sical science, that the characters of the mind are deducibles
from the organization of the head.              By multiplying his obser
vations on the developed organs and the corresponding intellec
tual faculties, Gall succeeded          in forming and correcting his
physiognomical svstem,          which  may   be learned and improved by
succeeding students of human nature, who should always begin
with the more simple, and proceed to the more complex ; from
a head which has only one highly developed organ, to that which
has man /; and finally to those whose organs are all equally de
veloped. Handel's organ of music, (a vertical and angular ridge
rising from the extremities of the eye-brows,) for instance, is
easily discovered.       Experience, exercise, and incessant observa
tions, aided by multiplied collections of skulls, are necessary to
make an expert craniognomist.             Observers are also assisted by
the anatomy and physiology of the brain, by comparative anato
my, (for there is the same difference in the faculties of animals
as of men,) by partial insanities, and by mimicry.            It is however
absmd to expect that physiognomy should                    be  accompanied
with the spirit of prophecy, or be required to tell whether a per
son should ever become insane.            This is impossible : yet, if one
faculty be indulged above all the others, >and the person be
come diseased so as to debilitate him, insanity may be antici
pated as a consequence.            Thus-, if the organ of self-love, or
pride, (an elevation        on   the top of the crown,) be extremely
developed, derangement may supervene.                   But there is no
difference in the configuration          of madmen's skulls : insanity
is merely a disease, which produces no greater changes oil
the figure of the brain, than diseases in general in other parts
of the body : if the eye, for instance, be inflamed, its external
form is not consequently changed : if the thorax or any other
part be diseased, a change of form does not necessarily follow. —
National physiognomy and cranioguomy. An aboriginal French
man, German, or Englishman, may change his pronunciation
 and language, but cannot the con figuration of his skull.               Mi
micry   or  expression     indicates  the  activity  and energy   of the  fa
culties.   As  the  organs   of  the brain  are   directed  upwards,  down
wards, backwards, or forward;., so is the body: thus, a proud
 man always walks very erect, — and so of others*.
   * The number of instances in which Dr. S. has pronounced rightly on
persons  has really astonished the medical men of the 'Metropolis.
                                                                   LI I. In7

                                [  313    ]
             LH. Intelligence    and Miscellaneous Articles.
                          BURNING    OF METALS.
M. Vauqueun            has communicated to the French Institute an
account of the results of some recent experiments, which are high
ly interesting to assayLsts, gold- and silver-smiths, and all work
ers in the precious metals. This chemist, placing four grains of sil
ver in a cavity of ignited charcoal, observed that, when he directed
a current of oxygen gas on the metal, it produced a conical
flame, the base of which had a yellow colour, the middle purple,
and the top blue ; and that, by collecting the disengaged vapour
in a bell glass, he found the receiver covered with a brownish
yellow crust, which was almost wholly dissolved in cold very dilute
nitric acid.     In this experiment the four grains of metal disap
 peared in less than a minute.         M. Vauquelin thinks that the
 silver burned at the same time with the charcoal, and that it is
to this cause the yellow-coloured flame of the latter must be
 ascribed.
      ON THE    PHOSPHORESCENCE       OF THE    COMPRESSED GASES.
     M. Dessaigne has addressed the following letter on this sub
ject to M. de la Metherie. — " Several years ago, M. Mollet of
 Lyons made known the curious fact of a light appearing at the
 mouth of an air gun, when it is discharged in the dark. In 1810,
 in a memoir on phosphorescence by collision, which I read to
 the Institute, after having made known several facts in which the
 luminous appearance is produced by the separation of bodies
 onlv, I had concluded that there were, with respect to the light
 concealed in bodies, two modes of excitation ; the one which i%
 the result of a pressure, and the other which is produced in the
 expansion.
      " Subsequently the French chemists have made us acquainted
  with two mixtures, in which the luminous excitation also takes
 place by an expansive movement at the instant of their decom
  position;
      "  I took a cylindrical glass vessel, and closed its upper orifice
 with a wet bladder, which I stretched and firmly tied down around
  it. I allowed this bladder to dry in the air until no appearance
  of humidity remained ; after which I placed the vessel on the
  stand* of an air pump, and made a vacuum in the dark.          At the
  moment when the air by its pressure burst the bladder, in order
  to precipitate itself into the vacuum, a very brisk flash of light
  illuminated the interior of the receiver.
      ie
         This experiment had a pleasing effect when made at night :
  the light emitted is white and intense, like that of the combus
                                                                    tion

                                                                   »
 314               Subscription proposed for Minerals.
 tion of oxygen     gas with hydrogen gas in Volta's eudiometer; but
 it  is circumscribed in its breadth, and extends to the bottom of
the    vessel.   We cannot compare it to any thing so well as to
 those flashes of fire which dart through the cloud - in a storm.
      " When the bladder bursts of itself before having made afi
 entire vacuum, the light which is then emitted is weak, reddish,
 and appears at the bottom of the vessel only.        In general it i»
 the stronger and more abundant as the vacuum is more perfect
 when the bladder is broken.        When the rupture of the bladder
 takes place simultaneously at two different points, we see two
 luminous points : in the contrary case we see one only.
      " May not the lightning which precedes the thunder be pro
  duced in the same way      V
               SUBSCRIPTION     PROPOSED FOR MINERALS.
      The Journal des Mines for May last contains the following
 notification : " The zeal with which the study of fossils and petri
factions has been prosecuted for several years, has suggested to the
members of the Bureau de Mineralogie established at Hanau
 in Wetteravia, the idea of forming systematic collections of petri
 factions, which they offer to furnish in successive portions' at
 stated periods; and they flatter themselves, in consequence, with
 obtaining the approbation         and support of amateurs and the
learned. These collections, it it said in the German Prospectus
published on the subject, will present not only in isolated in
dividuals all the fine remains of the organic world, the greater
part of which are lost to us, but they will exhibit as perfect a
view as possible, in pieces well characterized and carefully se
lected.      Scientific travellers will be sent into countries which
are richest in petrifactions, and will thus procure the means of
supplying gentlemen who form collections, with series as com
plete as possible.
    " But as an enterprise of this kind requires a considerable ad
vance of money; and as it is desirable, before procuring from far
distant countries, such as Italy, Switzerland, and France, the ar
ticles which have been already ordered, that a deposit should ba
made on which reliance can be placed, the plan of a subscription
has been preferred.
    "Every delivery will be composed of 50 specimens of the size of
two inches by four, for petrifactions still adhering to the matrix,
or a proportionate number of isolated specimens when the petri
faction itself is within or beyond this size : and the price of each
delivery will be six reichs thaler (about 1/. Is. English) to sub
scribers, and nine rix dollars (or 1/. lis. Gd.) to non-sub
scribers.
                                                               « The

                        New Volcanic Island.                      315
  **The undertakers pledge themselves to furnish specimens of an
•xcellent quality; and none shall be given twice, unless when the
 matrix happens to be different; which, on the contrary, will pre
sent a double interest to the amateur who makes the collection
 with a view to geognostic speculations.
   "A specification will accompany every delivery, and with ths
last will be given an explanatory and recapitulatory catalogue.
   "As to petrifactions of great price and rarity, one specimen
will serve for several deliveries, and it will be valued accordingly.
The deliveries will take place at intervals of frsm three to four
months; so that in a few years the collection will be complete. — .
The subscription   for the first delivery, which will take place in
November     1814, obliges the subscriber to take the two follow
ing: but payment in advance is expected for the first only; and
every subscriber is at liberty to decline taking more than the
three.    Any person procuring ten subscribers shall have a col
lection for himself gratis. It is proposed to exchange fossils with
naturalists who reside in countries which abound in petrifactions,
and who wish to procure this accommodation.               Letters and
money to be addressed (postage free)        to  Hanau    by Frankfort
on the Maine."
                      NEW VOLCANIC ISLAND.
   A very singular phaenomenon has occurred in the Russian pro
vince of Tscherne merit, in the vicinity of Alternzruk, immediately
opposite the salt-works.      On the 10th of May last, at two P.M.
the weather being    calm   and  serene, a noise was suddenly heard
from the sea, about 2Q0 toises from the shore.          Flames issued,
forth, accompanied with explosions resembling those of cannon;
thick clouds of vapour rose at the same time ; and enormous
masses of earth and huge stones were hurled with force into the
air. Ten very violent eruptions took place successively within
a quarter of an hour.      Those that followed were protracted till
after night.    Then an islet was seen to rise from the sea, pour
ing forth from several mouths a bituminous matter, which sub
sequently assumed a firmer consistency. While this phaenomenon
was evaporating, a particular smell spread about the distance of
ten wersts- around : this smell had not any resemblance to that
of sulphur. On the 20th, the examination of this islet was com-
mepced. It was thought to be inaccessible, being surrounded on
every side by hardened bitumen : at last they succeeded in pe
netrating to the interior.   Its elevation is a toise and a half above
the level of the sea, and its surface entirely covered with a stony
whitish mass.

$16         Fall of Meteoric   Stones. — Bees. — Chemistry.
               FALL  OF METEORIC    STONES IN FRANCE.
   On the 5th of September, a fall of stones took place at Agea
in France.      M. Lamoureux, an eminent French naturalist, hap
pened to be on the spot at the time, and was an eye witness of
the phaenomenon.        He lias transmitted a full account of it to-
the Institute, accompanied by several specimens of the stones
which fell.     It appears from his narrative, that at eleven a. m.
the sky was clear, calm, and transparent, as is the case in almost
all the southern provinces.       Suddenly there appeared in the
north-west of the department, at a great height, a sombre cloud
moving slowly, and apparently of circumscribed dimensions, for
at first its diameter did not seem to exceed a few feet. It speedily
began to move more rapidly ; the cloud revolved as if on its axis,
with a noise similar to that of continual thunder ; a terrible noise
was heard, and the cloud burst asunder. At this moment the in
habitants of several communes were struck with terror, on seeing
fall around them a shower of stones of considerable size, and which
made holes in the ground several inches in depth. The stones col
lected resemble those which fell at l'Aigle, des Landes, and other
places ; but they are of a clearer gray, and of a less consistent
texture.
                                 BEES.
    The French agriculturists, who attend to the management of
bees, have recently employed with success a new method of ob
taining the honey without killing these useful insects.           By
burning one of the mushroom species (the lycoperdon slcllatum)
at the aperture of the hive, the smoke produces a state of stupor,
which lasts for a quarter of an hour only ; and during this inter
val the bees may be safely put into another hive, and the con
tents of the old one removed.
    M. Bergman, of Berlin, recently examined with great minute
ness the bark    of the prurms padus, and found that it contained
a great quantity of prussic acid.         Water distilled from this
bark has an odour as strong as that of the leaves of the taunts
cerasus, and an cthereated oil is obtained similar to that of
 laurus cerasus and bitter almonds. This water has a peculiarly
energetic action on animals. Thus, a dog of middling size, which
was made to swallow half an ounce, died in ten minutes ; and
another dog died in half an hour, after taking an ounce and
 a half.
   The above distilled water, the infusion, and the- bark in pow
der, have been employed with success by Dr. Bremer of Berlin,

                   *
                        AW   Books.— Lectures.                     31?
in gouty    diseases and in some other cases.        M. Bergman pur
 poses  to  examine  the bark  of the primus    padus,  when taken off
 the tree at different seasons of the year.
           Mr. Tilloch.
    Sir, An unfortunate omission in the manuscript which I sent
 you last month on the existence of alcohol in fermented liquors^
has rendered the principal experiment in it unintelligible.       Per
 mit me to state, that the passage included between lines 34 and
39 in page 210 should have run thus: —"To make an experi
 ment   as unexceptionable   as possible,  I dissolved 36 troy ounces
 of sugar in 144 of water &c."
                                  I have  the honour to be, &c.
 Dublin, October 1814.                                 M. Donovan.
    Mr. Thomas Forster is publishing a second and enlarged
 edition of his " Researches about Atmospheric Phenomena," il
 lustrated with six copper-plate engravings of the clouds.
    We take this opportunity of announcing the appearance of
 Facts and Observations deduced from long and extensive Prac
tice on Liver Complaints and bilious Disorders in general, and
on sucli Derangements of these Organs as influence the biliary
Secretion : with some new and practical Observations on the va
rious Appearances of this important Secretion ; connected by an
appropriate and successful Mode of Treatment: and the whole
illustrated and confirmed by a numerous List of Cases, By
John Faithhorn, formerly Surgeon in the Honourable East India
Company's Service.
                               LECTURES.
    The following arrangements have been made for Lectures at
the Surry Institution in the ensuing season :
    Mr. Wheeler, on Chemistry, to commence on Tuesday, Nov.
 15th, and to be continued on each succeeding Tuesday.
   Mr. Rippingham, on Eloquence, to commence on Friday, Nov.
 18th, and to be continued on each succeeding Friday.
   Mr. J. Mason Good, on Classical and PoliteLiterature, to com
mence on Friday, Jan. 6th, IS 15, and to be continued on each
succeeding Friday ; and/
    Dr. Crotch, on Music, to commence early in February.
                                                            Meteora-

    $18         Meteorological Olservalions made at Parningharitj
                 *
       Meteorological Observations       made  from September 26 to
                               October 19, 1814.
       Sept. 26. — Showery weather.         Wind SW.
  \    Sept.  27.  — (At Farningham.)    — Cloudy; some gentle showers f
    cool air; in the evening orange haze at twilight in W. below
    a cloud.
       Sept. 28. — Rainy morning ; fair afternoon, but cool ; a sort
   of cirrostratus like windrows of hay by moonlight, at 1 1 P.M.
       Sept. 29. — (At Tonbridge Wells. )-^Low confused cumulus
   dragging over the hills, and involving me in a dense fog, early ;
   windy day, with showers afterwards and the different modifica
   tions.
       Sept. 30. — {At Clapton.) — Wind high from the east, with-
   clouds.     Thermometer 6 P.M. 54s-.           Barometer as high as-
   30" 12, notwithstanding the wind and showers — a circumstance
   which we must attribute to the easterly wind *.          By night flat-
   tish masses of cloud sail along rapidly in the wind,
       Oct. 1. — The east wind blew strong.           The clouds cleared
  off, and the day became quite clear and dry ;- a few clouds again
  at night.
      Oct. 2. — Clear dry windy day; cirrus appeared early, and
   through the day played about the sky ; about sunset there were.
  large masses, the remains of cumulus, which put on a sort of
  lumpy irregular cirrostrative form. The western sky by night
  was orange-coloured : while viewing it from the Leabridge road,
s about
           six o'clock, I noticed above the pale orange, which extended
  some degrees above the horizon, a very beautiful crimson blush
  fading towards the zenith into purple : it came on suddenly, and
  was of short continuance ; was very partial ; and there was *
  clear light-blue appearance of the sky to the south of it : in some
  places there was a greenish colour.           Barometer rising 30.25.
  The night very cool.        Wind E.
      Oct. 3. — Clear dry cold E. wind; cirrus played about
  throughout the day ; some cumuli observed by moonlight at
 night. Barometer 30-35.             Thermometer 1 1 P.M. 43°.
      Oct. 4. — A difference in the electric state of the atmosphere
 to-day, and denoted by different clouds.            To-day only cumuli
 prevailed, a few threads of cirrus in the afternoon.        The change
 took place last night.        To-day was rather warmer than yester
 day.      At night Barometer falling 30-29. Cumuli in the sky by
 moonlight.
      Oct. 5. — Clear and cumuli, warmer than yesterday ; and cleap
     * The Barometer is
                          generally high with easterly and northerly winds,
 even    under the tame circumstances which with southerly and westerly
 winds would depress the mercury, namely, wind aud rain.
                                                                    night,

            Tonbridge Wells, Bookkam,          Clapton,  &-c.           SH$
night, and a little mist near the ground.           Therm. Ik P.M. 38°.
Barom. fell to 30.00. Wind E. by N. then S. and SE. Calm.
    Oct. 6. — Stratus early, then misty with cumuli, . which
thickened, increased ; mixed features of many modifications ap
peared, and rain came in the evening. Wind gentle and variable;
fair night again.
    Oct. 7- — Fine clear morning with NW wind, and small fleecy
cumuli j the clouds increased, and nimbus formed towards three
in the afternoon with a shower.
    Oct. 8. — Clear cool morning, with N. wind ; afterwards cloud*
with ill-defined margins, both cumuli and a sort of clumsy cirro-
stratus ; by noon the weather altered for the better, with well-
defined cumuli with NW breeze, which blew gently all night.
At 1 1 P.M. Therm. 40. Barom. 30-05.
     Oct. 9. — Clear cold day with cumuli, &c. ; very cold clear
 night. Thermometer beiow 30°. N.NW.
     Oct. 10. — Clear morning; I discerned large white bars of
 cirrostratus ; the night became partially cloudy, and warmer.
     Oct. 11. — Warmer with southerly wind, and sky clouded with
 hazy atmosphere.          The ground dry.
     Oct. 12*.   —  Clouds, with a little small rain in drops ; with
southerly wind and hazy.             The wind at night became rather
high from SE. At 11 P.M. Therm. 55°f. Barom. 2971.
     Oct. 13. — Fair, and various clouds.
     Oct. 14. —Warm cloudy morning ; fair day with much cirrus,
 eirrocumulus,      and features of ckros trains variously mixed.
 Ground dry.
     Oct. 1 5 . — Warm, chiefly clouded and hazy, with gentle shower*
 from SW; but the ground soon dried.                Windy night. Ther
 mometer at 1 1 56°.
     Oct. 16. — Fair NW wind and diurnal cumuli.             Thermometer
  11 P.M. 44°.
     Oct. 17- — Warm, with gentle showers.
     Oct. 18. — (Observations made at Bookham.) — Rainy all day,
 except a few hours in the evening.           W.
     Oct. 19. — Rainy, and long showers with fair intervals all day.
       Clapton,                   i   r
    Oct.  19, 18U.                    ,              Thomas      Forster.
       I noticed a bat flying about to-day at 3 P.M. in Oxford-street; whicli
 is rather  an unusual occurrence, both as to place and time of year.
    f  By the Thermometer understand according to Fahrenheit's scale.
                                                                  METEORO^

320                          Meteorology.
            t       METEOROLOGICAL              TABLE,
               Br Mr. Cart, of the Strand,
                           For October 1814.
            I  Thhermometer.
                                  Height of      O <J
       of     o c                                       g
  Days                           the Barom,                   VV eat her
  Mouth.                            inches.
                                                 a  rk
         27    56    61     55     29-70           27     Showery-
         38   56     63     51         -87         34      Cloudy
         29   52     59     50         -98         30      Cloudy
         30   56     58     50     30-05           40      Fair
           1   50    55     49         -09         42      Fair
           2   51    57     50         -13         46      Fair
           3  48     59     50         -17         51      Fair
               50    58     49         -23         57      Fair
           i   50    59     48     29-98           56      Fair
           6 40      56     49         -79         41     |Cloudy
           7   43    52     40         -80         33      Showery
           8 40      55     42     30 05           40      Fair
           9 40      41     38         -08         42      Fair
          10 32      50     41          •09        40      Cloudy
          11 44      54     49      29-99          40      Cloudy
          12   49    56     54          -70        36     jCloudy
          13   55    58     55          -52        30      Cloudy
          14   56    65     52          -40        36      Fair
          15   51    59     50          -62        47      Fair
          16   47    57      50         -67        40      Fair
          17   48    56     49          >54        34      Cloudy
          18   47    52     47          -31           0    Rain
          19 48      51     45          -18           0    Rain
          20 45       52    41          -50         33     Fair          >
          21   39    54      50         >78         30     Fair
          22 54       57     50          -76        33      Fair
          23 50       50     39          •68        37      Fair
          24    38   48      46          -45        35      Fair
          25   47    47      40          •18          0     Rain
          26   41     49     45          •65        18      Cloudy
              N.B. The  Barometer-s   height is taken at one o-clock.

                                [  321        ]
LI II.  On the Production      of Aerolites, and other Sglids, by the
                       Union   of aeriform Fluids.
                             To Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, —  The      ingenious manner in which M. Marcel de Serrcs
endeavours to throw some light on the formation or production
of aerolites*, &c. induces me to make some remarks on the pro
duction of certain solids by the union of aeriform fluids or gases,
and which still further induces me to think that in this branch
of chemistry there are many discoveries yet to be made. We
know that most vegetable as well as animal substances contain
proportions of metals, as well as earths which are now known to
be of metallic basis.        M. Berthollet is said to have obtained
gold from the ashes of vegetables; and this will not appear impro
bable to us, when we consider that gold is almost as general a
metal as iron, though in such very minute quantities.      We know
also that iron enters into the composition of almost all of the
vegetable kingdom, and this undeniable experiments have proved
that it does from the atmosphere. Are we then to suppose that
they enter in the form of acidulous vapours containing the metal
or earth in solution, or by the union of certain gases, by which
means other solids of a meaner consistency are undoubtedly
formed ?     The ingenious botanist Mrs. Ibbetson has proved
that certain plants are so constructed by nature as to accom
modate themselves to an unnatural soil, by certain alterations in
their vessels, which enable them to inhale moisture, or more
likely the gases by which the aqueous portion is formed: and
indeed we know that all plants inhale and exhale, thereby
forming the whole of the aqueous, mucilaginous, as well as.
the more solid parts, by the destruction or decomposition and
recomposition of various gases ; and which has been proved by
trees being suffered to attain double the weight of the earth
in which they grew, while the latter was not in the least de
creased.    If it is argued to be from the water by which they were
fed, it may be again said, that water is merely a compound
of gases.
   It appears to me, that the principal solid constituent of    vege
tables may be thus formed.          Since we know that moisture is
necessary to all vegetables, we know that by some means or
other it enters its parts ; and as experiment teaches us that most
of the resinous, mucilaginous, and gelatinous substances, which
all plants possess, may be decomposed into carburetted hydro-
                     * Phil. Mag. vol. xliii.
                                              p. 253.
Vol. 44. No. 199. Nov. 1814.                      X              gen,

322         On the Production       of Aerolites   mid other Solids.
gen, we must suppose, that leaves of all vegetables inhale a
great proportion of carbonic acid gas, which coming in contact
with the water of the plant, unites with the hydrogen, forming
gums, resins, or other mucilaginous matter; which continuing to
imbibe a greaten proportion of carbon, becomes concrete, form
ing the wood ; while the oxygen from the carbonic acid gas and
water is exhaled by the plant, and greedily absorbed by the
atmosphere ; and hence may be the source of the oxygen which
is known to appear on the surface of leaves when put under
water.
    Since we know that our atmosphere is of too adhesive a com
position to admit of any foreign gases uniting with it in free
space, we must naturally suppose they are forcibly repelled,
and, whether compound or simple, either from their density re
main on the surface of the earth ; or the hydrogen not absorbed
by vegetables may unite with other bodies for which it has an
affinity, dissolving a portion of them, and then, by its levity,-
may ascend to the higher regions, carrying with              it,
                                                              in its ascent
other gases   also holding bodies  in  solution.    Thus   different   con
stituents of solid bodies may congregate in the higher regions,
where their particles uniting          by
                                      attraction,       by
                                                       electricity, or     by
powers unknown to us, may form precipitable matter of greater
density than the atmosphere.
    Considering these circumstances, and the ocular proof which
we daily have of solid substances being formed                by
                                                             the union of
gases, why should we question how such as honey dews, gela
tinous showers, &c. can be produced in the upper regions? And
as we have many instances of decomposed animal and vegetable
substances being converted into pyrites, undoubtedly from the
 absorption of sulphur and iron, in many instances, from the at
 mosphere, why can we not suppose this composition to take
 place above, from some substance of an inferior solidity, but per
 haps equally capable of attracting particles of matter for the
 formation of aerolites, which, until having attained                certain
                                                                       a
 degree  of  density greater  than  that  of the  surrounding      medium,
 cannot be precipitated to the earth         ?               \
    As have before observed, iron            one of the most general
                                            I is
      I
metallic substances in nature, and          think there        little doubt
                                                                  is
 but  it   this which gives the almost universal green colorification
           is
 to those parts of vegetables which are formed               by
                                                           nature to im
bibe the gases, from the atmosphere, necessary for the constitution
 of the plant, as have proved that in those leaves where the
                    I
 colour    greatest there     the largest proportion of iron.           This
                            by is
           is
 indeed, we may observe      the fallen leaves of trees, &c. that where
 the colour has been most predominant while living, when dead,

                          On the Affections    of Light.              223
 the leaves assume the deepest yellow ; and when very dry, a dirty
  light red, which is undoubtedly the iron in the state of an oxide.
  But I in vain endeavoured, bv watering different species of plants
 with a very dilute solution of iron in different acids, to obtain a
  greater degree of colour in the leaf ; and I further made this ex
  periment on flowers and such plants whose leaves were not of a
  direct green, and with different metals in solution ; but was not
  able without the destruction of the plant to alter the colour,
  nor did the plants when submitted to a rough analysis appear
  to be the least altered in respect to their composition.
      This was, perhaps, the delusive chain of the alchemists: but if
  followed up by some of your scientific readers in these more en
  lightened times, where actual experiment is unbiassed by super-
  ntition,it might throw much,light on what, from being familiar to
  us, is in a great measure overlooked as a common phaenomenon.
                       I am, sir, respectfully,
                                   Your constant reader,
     Stoke Newington.                                            P. N. J.
   LIV. On      the Affections of Light transmitted         through cry
      stallized Bodies.      By David Brewster, LL.D. F.R.S.
      Edin. and F.S.J. Edin.             In a Letter to Sir Humphrj
      Davy, LL.D. F.R.S.
                           [Concluded   from p. 270.]
   V. On    the  elliptical coloured Ringi produced by depolarizing
                                   Crystals.
  In    a former work, to which I have already had occasion to,
   refer, I have given some account of the colours which accom
   pany the depolarization of light, and Phave particularly noticed
   the remarkable fact, that when a beam of white depolarized
  light is transmitted through a doubly refracting crystal, the red
   rays go to the formation of one image, while the blueish-green
   rays go to the formation of the other image.          In repeating and
   extending these experiments, I have been led into a new field of
   inquiry, which has already afforded a series of instructive re
  sults deduced from a class of phaenomena unquestionably the
   most brilliant within the whole range of optics.
      The plate of topaz which was used in these experiments, is
   about -jffo of an inch thick, and has two natural faces which are
   parallel and highly polished.       Its refractive power is 1-63G j its
   dispersive power 0-024, and the angle at which it polarizes light
_ by reflection 58° 8'.      It is represented in section by ABai, in
   Plate IV., fig. 8, DE being one of its depolarizing axes. If a
   beam of common light RR' is now incident on the anterior sur-
   faee AB at an angle of about 60° 38', a part of the beam will
                                    •
                                      X   2                      penetrate

324                         On the Affections             of Light
 penetrate the topaz at R, and after reaching the posterior sur
 face ah, it will be partly transmitted at C in the direction CF,
 and partly reflected in the direction O, so as to depart from
 the point C almost wholly polarized by reflection ; but in its
 passage from C to r along the oblique depolarizing axis of the
 crystal, it is depolarized and emerges at r, in the direction rrr
 deprived of the polarity which it had acquired by reflection at C.
 If the observer now looks into the topaz in the direction r'r,
through a plate of agate having its laminae perpendicular to the
plane of the section ABal, he will perceive about ten brilliantly
 coloured elliptical rings, four of which, with the two central
spots, are shown in Plate VI. fig. 1.*
     The following measures will convey a correct idea of thei?
 form and magnitude.
     Breadth of the central spots including half the black
          space between them                                                            1° 51'
     Distance       of the   outsides    of  the    central      spots                  3  42
     Transverse length of each central spot                                          ;  5   7 -
     Extreme conjugate diameter of first red ring                                    .7    24
                     Ditto                        second                               11   6
                     Ditto                        third                                14  48
                     Ditto                        fourth                               IS 30
                     Ditto                        fifth                               22   12
                     Ditto                        sixth                               25   54
                     Ditto                        seventh                             29   36
                     Ditto                        eighth                              33   18
                     Ditto                        ninth                               37    0
                    Ditto                        tenth                                40 42
    Black space between the oval centres                                                   14^-
    In order to convey a correct notion of the different colours
which compose the elliptical rings, and which vary in different
parts of the same ring, I have given in Plate VII.                              f,  fig. 1, an
outline of the first six rings with references to the following
table, which contains the colours in five different parts of the
semi-circumference of each ring.
    fl.    Light blue with a purplish tinge      .    fo. Black    fading into light blue to-
            fading into white above, and        *>
                                                      |     wards 6.
            gradually deepening into black      >r<! 0-.   I.ighl tine fading into greeK.
            below.                                         Yellow shading into red.
2  j
t; 1
       2.  White fading into yellow above,
            anji»L<u...u.i
                                                 .   J  7.
                                                     (.8. Deep crimson
            and light blue below.
                                                         9   fl/         lit[Ie
           Yellow shadmg oft tnto       white
                                                        10. Green,    very little, the green
            below, and red above.              "g   ,
                                                             beginning a little below.
           Red, with     a  pink tinge,  and O       j 11 . Yellow shading     into red.
    I.      shading into yellow below.                  12. Crimson.
   * J    have counted fourteen of these rings when the light was polarizer! by
oblique transmission through a plate of mica 0127tb of an inch thick.
The colours are in this case much more distinct.
   t This Plate wiil appear iuour next Number.

                          transmitted       through     crystallized Bodies.                             325
                         blue, very little,
                                                                J
                                                                (82. Very faint blue.
                                                       %                                         Green   be
                           very broad.                 lt                  gins here.                    ,    .
                   Crimson famter than 1 2.             .       J33. Very faint pink.
           16. Green, very broad.
               Faint blue.                             "g                  Still fainter blue.
           17.                                                  }S4.
           18. Faint crimson.
                                                       O }35. Still fainter crimson.
                                                       >        c
       i 19.   Very faint blue.                          f 36. Black mixed with a little green.
                                                       £ | 87. Ditto.
           20. Very faint crimson.
       I                                               % I 38. Ditto.
                                                       q I 39. Dark green, a little yellow on
                                                       ^ I      its upper side.
                   Stil! fainter blue.                   1 40. Red, pinkish, not
                                                                                  very bright.
                   Still fainter crimson.
                                               }41. Darkish green.
       -
        23. Black shadingoffinto light blue.
                                             ~ }42. Faint crimson.
                                             %
       ) 21.Dark green.
       125. Yellow.                          ~
       ^26. Deep crimson.                    £       Green.
       C27. Blue.                            5      Blue, very little.
            Green.                                  Faint crimson.
       ^28.                                            **
       /29. Crimson.
                   Blueish-green.                                          Faint blue.
            !30.
            31. Crimson.                                                   Faint crimson.
  AH the other fringes, without this, consist of blue and pink,
which grow fainter as they recede from the centre.
       C    a Black.
                                                                      Black.
                                                       %&
                                                                    v
      I          Dark blue approaching to black.
      "S Sj                                                         w Dark blue shadinginto light blue.
                 Li^ht blue shading" to black.    q
O    { I                                                            x Brownish yellow.
                 Whitish.                         ^
Le d c
-"-
      I                                                             y Dark pink, with brown tinge. •
                                                                                            a
                 R-ddish brown of an orange cast.--
»a
           ff Light
           Sg
              Very dark blue.
                    blue.
                                                                          Pale blue shading into greenish
 '-•
O          }h    Yellowish.                            H        jSc Greenish         yellow.
                 Pink.                                 5        (o1Pink.
            :    Light blue.                            ,0 V&- Blue not much.
                 Yellowish green.                       Jr <c Green.
            1    Faint pink.                                .   )(!       Pink.
            t    Green, blue begins here         and
                   runs downward.                               \e-       Green.
            <    Pink.
                                                            I
                                                                if Light blue.
                                                                   Faint pink,
                                                                     g-
£          \p    Faint blue, green begins here
       <           and runs downward.
                                                                }
                                                                    K   Faint blue,
                                                                    vi' Faint pink.
 Cfr             Black.
 -o
           Js    Faint blue shading into whitish.
 O         V     Whitish shading into faint brown,
           (a    Faint reddish brown.                                             X3                          If

                                                                  '
                          On                    of Light
                                                                •
  326                         the  Affections                 :
       If the  plate of agate is now turned round 90°, so that its la
  minae are parallel to the plane of the section ABab, a second set
  of elliptical rings will be seen as represented in Plate VI., fig. 2,
  which is on the same scale as fig. 1. and which contains only
  the four first orders of colours, and the central spots.           This new
  set of rings is composed of colours which are complementary
  to those in the first set.       By measuring the diameters of the red
  rings    in the seco?id  set, it will  be found that they correspond with
  those     of the green rings      in  the first set; the blue rings corre
  spond with the yellow; the green with the red ; and the yellow
  with the blue; and in the outer rings the blue with the pink,
  and the pink with the blue.                The central spots in the se
  cond set exhibit the same opposition of colours to those in the
first set ; but they are smaller, and placed at a greater distance;
  and the space around them which was formerly black is now
  while.
       If instead of a plate of agate we employ a doubly refracting
  crystal, the first set of rings will, in one position of the crystal,
 be seen in the first image ; and upon turning the crystal about
 its axis, the first set will occupy the second image, and the
  second set the first image, an alternation taking place in every
  quadrant of the motion of the crystal.              This method of view
 ing the rings is in some respects superior to that in which the
  agate is used, as the nebulous image formed by this mineral in
 jures, in some degree, the distinctness of the image ; but on the
 other hand, the doubly refracting crystal requires to be cut into
 a prism with a large angle, in order to separate the two images
 which it forms ; and therefore it alters the shape of the rings,
 and produces a complete change upon their colours*.
      If the emergent rays rr' , instead of being transmitted through
 agate or Iceland spar, are reflected at the polarizing angle from
 any transparent body having its reflecting surface parallel to the
 plane of the section ABab, they will exhibit the first set of rings ;
 but if the reflecting surface is perpendicular to the plane of the
 section, the second set of rings will be visible.            When the first
 set, thus seen by reflection, is examined through a prism of
 Iceland spar, it suffers no change either in the first or second
image.
      In these experiments the first set of rings is extremely distinct,
 as the polarizing crystal extinguishes the light RS reflected
     * Since this paper was written,      I have discovered a new property of
light, in virtue of which it is polarized by oblique transmission through
transparent bodies. Hence, in all my experiments on the coloured rings,
I   find it of incalculable advantage to polarize the light by bundles of glass
                                                  I
plates, and to use them in every case where formerly employed agate or
calcareous spar,
                                                                         from

               transmitted through crystallized Bodies.           327
from the first surface of the topaz ; but the second set of rings
is very faint, as the light RS is not extinguished by the polarizing
body.
    When we examine the transmitted light CF, either with the
naked eye or with polarizing crystals, no coloured fringes are.
visible.
    Such are the modifications which common light undergoes in
its passage through topaz.        The affections of polarized light,
which now eome under consideration, are still more varied and
interesting.     In my first experiments on this subject, I po
larized the light by transmitting it through the agate ; but I
afterwards found it most convenient to communicate this pro
perty by reflection from the surface of a transparent body.
  . Let RR', Plate IV., fig. 9, be a beam of polarized      light ob
tained by reflection from any transparent body GH, the plane
of reflection from GH being perpendicular to the plane of re
flection from the topaz AB.        A part of this beam will be re
flected at C in the direction Cr, and part of it transmitted at
C in the direction CF, no light being reflected from the first
surface AB.       The rays transmitted at C having been polarized
before their incidence at R' are depolarized in passing from R'
to C along the oblique depolarizing axis, and the rays reflected
at C are polarized by reflection from the surface ah, and again
depolarized in their passage from C to r along the other oblique
depolarizing axis.
    If the observer now looks into the topaz in the direction rr',
he will perceive the first set of elliptical coloured rings, as re
presented in Plate VI., fig. 1.       These rings are now peculiarly
distinct and brilliant, and it was therefore from them that I drew
up the table of colours referred to from Plate VII., fig. 1.
    Let the ray rr- be now received upon a plate of agate having
its laminae perpendicular to the section ABab, and a third set
of rings will be seen like those in Plate VI., fig. 3. This third
set differs from the first set only in the central parts.     All the
rings have the same colours in both ; but the central spots are
much smaller in the third set than in the first, and the mass of
darkness with which they are surrounded encroaches considerably
upon the blue part of the first ring.
    In the third set of rings the distance of the outsides of
       the two central spots is                                5° 3'
    Conjugate diameter of each spot                            1   1
          Ditto           of  the  black  space  between  the
       spots                ,                                   1  0
    The third set, indeed, may be considered as the exact coun
terpart of the second set, all the colours of ths former being
                                   X 4                           com

328                      On    the   Affections     of Light
 complementary to those of the latter, and the central spots hav
 ing the same form and magnitude.
     If the plate of agate is now turned round, so that its laminae
 are parallel to the section ABah, a fourth set of rings will be
             This new set, which is represented in Plate VI., fig. 4,
                                                                                                  by is-
 seen.
 by    no  means    brilliant, but   it   isdistinguished from all the rest
 striking peculiarities.         In   its general structure           resembles the
                                                                        it
first set; but       in the  middle    of each    central  spot  there       a darker
                                                                              is
 spot composed of blue and red, with a little green above the
 blue, and every ring       is  divided into two rings, each of which has
 the same colours as the original ring.                This division of the rings
 occupies only     a    part  of  the   semi-circumference        of each, and                    is
 not seen beyond the third ring.
     When the agate begins to move from the position which gives
 the third set of rings, into that which gives the fourth set, two
 blue spots and the divisions of the rings begin to appear at
 a, a, a, a, a', a', a', a', Plate VII. fig.   c,
                                               c,          and move along the
 lines abc, a'b'c' till they arrive at
                                               c, 2,
                                               c,            c',   ',
                                                                   c'
                                                                   ,c'       c',
                                                                            when the
 rings     assume     the   appearance      of   the fourth    set.     If  the agate
 performs another revolution of 90° from the position                     which  gives
 the fourth set into that which gives the third set, the blue spots
 and the divisions of the rings move off                in   the direction              c,   d,   e,
 c',  d',   ,e'till the rings assume the appearance of the third set.
     The phaenomena which have now been described may also be
 perceived, when the polarization of the rays rr'                     effected either
                                                                        is
  by   a  doubly refracting crystal        or  by   reflection.     In one position
 of the doubly refracting crvstal the third set of rings                       seen in
                                                                                   is
 the first image, and the fourth set in the second image, and they
 alternate in every quadrant of the motion of the crystal.                      When
 the ray rr'      is   reflected from      a   transparent body,          so  that  the
 plane of reflection      is   parallel to the plane of reflection from the
  topaz, the fourth set of rings will be visible.
       Hitherto we have attended only to the light reflected from ah,
  the posterior surface of the topaz           ;    but the light transmitted at
 C      exhibits also interesting phaenomena.                 When the observer
  looks through the topaz in the direction FC, so as to see the
  polarizing surface GH, the second set of rings                       faintly visible.
                                                                        is
   They     become     extremely distinct, however, when viewed through
  a plate of agate having its laminae at right angles to the plane
   ABai. If the laminae are parallel to the plane ABai, the second
   set is   converted into the first set with colours               little paler than
                                                                    a
   when     itwas produced in the former experiments.
       In the preceding experiments the plane of reflection from GH
   has been perpendicular to the plane of reflection from the topaz.
   We shall now describe the phamomena which take place when
                                                                                             these

                transmitted through crystallized Bodies.                    329
 these planes are parallel to each other, an arrangement which is
 represented in Plate IV., tig. 10.
     When the observer looks into the topaz in the direction rr't
 he will perceive the second set of fringes.             If the rays     r/  are
 transmitted through a plate of agate having its laminae perpen
 dicular to the plane of reflection, the fourth set of fringes will
 be seen, but they are very much fainter than they appeared in
 the former experiments.          When the laminae of the agate are
 parallel to the plane of reflection, the second set is faintly visi
 ble.    The central spots are, however, rather larger than before,
 so that this set has the appearance of being the reverse of the
jirst rather than of the third set.
     When the light transmitted in the direction CF is seen by the
 naked eye, it exhibits the first set of rings.              If it is examined
 through a plate of, agate havhig its veins perpendicular to the
 plane of reflection, the first set is still visible ; but when the
 agate is turned round 903 the second set is perceived.
     All the preceding observations were made with a plate of topaz.
 TTnro of an mcn thick.          When the plate has a greater thick
 ness the rings are much smaller, and when it has a less thickness
 the rings are extremely large, so that in very thin plates onlv
 a small portion of a ring can be perceived at once.                   We have
 already   seen   that with   a plate -Wo    of an   'ncn    thick,  the  fourth
 red ring subtends angle of 18° 30'.            With another plate tVctb-
 of an inch thick, the angle subtended by the same ring is 8°
  24'. But since
                   -AW tVVo         =  13° 30' : 80- 24    ;
 it follows that    the conjugate diameters     of the rings      are inversely
  as the thickness    of the ptates.
     According to the Abbe Haiiy, the angle formed by two of the
 primitive faces of the topaz is 124 22'; and therefore the axes
                                           '
 or longest diagonals of the primitive rectangular prism will form
 angles of (50° 31' 15"* with a line perpendicular to the laminae,
 a result which agt;ees so nearly with o'O^ 38', the inclination of
 the axes of the coloured rings, that we can have no hesitation in
  concluding that the axes of the coloured rings are coincident
 with the longest diagonals of the primitive rectangular prism..
     The rings which have now been described, as produced by
  topaz, I have discovered in rock crystal, mica, the agate, the
 oriental ruby, the emerald, native hydrate of magnesia, amber*
  ice, sulphate of potash, tartrate of potash and soda, nitrate of
 potash, acetate of lead, acetate of lead melted and cooled, prus-
 siate of potash, mother of pearl, bones of a cod, quill, the hu-
     * According to my own measurements, the           is 123° 38', which gives
                                                 angle
 £0° 28' 20" for the inclination of the diagonals.
                                                                            man

  339                     On the Affections  of Li g fit
  man nail, horn, tortoise shell, cornea of a fish, cornea of a cow,
  cornea of a man, spermaceti, Rupert's drops, gum Arabic, and
  caoutchouc.
      1 . Rock crystal.     The only specimen of this mineral which I
  could obtain when I made the preceding experiments, was in the
  form of a double convex lens about to-Stf of an mcn thick. It ex
  hibited only segments of the coloured rings ; but theywere very
  large and brilliant, and afforded me the means of making a very
  interesting experiment with a plate of agate.
      If a beam of common light is incident upon the neutral axis
  of this crystal, at such an angle that after reflection from its
'
  posterior surface it shall emerge in the direction of its oblique
  depolarizing axis, the light thus polarized by reflection and de
  polarized by transmision through the depolarizing axis will reach
  the eye in the state of white light.           If this light is viewed
  through      agate,  one of  the coloured  segments, suppose green,
  will be distinctly visible; but if the agate is turned 90° round,
  the green colour will be converted into red, and in general the
  colour seen in one position of the agate will be complementary
   to that which is seen in the other position.          When the light,
  however, is brilliant, another very singular phaenomenon presents
  itself.    If the bright image seen through the agate is green, the
  nebulous image, in which it is inclosed, will be red ; and when
   the bright image is red, the nebulous image will be green, and
  in general the colour of the nebulous image will be always com
  plementary to that of the bright image.          If we employ a prism
  of Iceland spar to examine the depolarized light, the colour of
  the ordinary image is always complementary to that of the ex
  traordinary image.       We may therefore consider the preceding
  result as an experimentum crucis, which establishes the opinion
  respecting the structure of the agate, that has been given in
   another part of this paper.
      2. Mica.      The coloured rings are distinctly visible in mica,
  both when the light is transmitted perpendicularly through the
  plate, and when it is incident in the direction wf its oblique de
  polarizing axis. The irregular structure of this mineral, how
  ever, and the impossibility of procuring laminae with parallel
   and even surfaces, prevented me from investigating the phaeno
  mena of its coloured rings.
     3. Agate.        The only plate of agate in which I have observed
  the coloured rings, is cut in such a direction that it does not
  polarize the bright image.       It possesses, however, the faculty of
  depolarization, and therefore must form two bright images, one
  of which lies immediately above the other.           This plate is about
  To o o- of  an  incn thick, contains no veins,      and  exhibits broad
  segments of coloured rings.
                                                              4. Oriental

                 transmitted through crystallized Bodies,          331
 «  A. Oriental ruly.       1\ai doubly refracting crystal afford*
beautiful rings, in which, owing to the colour of the mineral, the
predominant colours are crimson, light blue, and blueish-green.
The central spots were distinctly- visible ; and though the crystal
was T'^(T of an inch thick, the rings appeared to be larger than
those given by topaz -rVVtr of an nlcn thick.
    5. Emerald. The coloured rings formed by this stone are
principally blue and greenish yellow, the least refrangible ray*
being extinguished by the green colour of the mineral.
    6. Native hydrate of magnesia.          This mineral affords very
distinct segments of coloured rings when the light is transmitted
in a direction nearly perpendicular to the surface of the laminae.
Owing to the imperfect structure of the plates, I could not ob
tain a measure of the diameter of the rings.
    7. Amber. As this substance possesses no crystalline form,
 and does not split into laminae, I found it impossible to make
any satisfactory experiments with it.        The enormous breadth of
its coloured rings was conspicuous in every specimen ; but though
 I ground and polished more than twenty plates of           it,
                                                              I   could
not obtain one which exhibited any thing more than broad-co
loured segments.       With    parallelopiped of amber 0566 of an
                                a
inch long, 0-300 broad, and 0-367 deep, the coloured segment*
were visible in every direction in which the light was trans
mitted.      They appeared most distinct through the thickness
0-367    ;  and through the thickness 0-566 they were still so
broad, that no more than one colour of each ring could be
•seen.    In piece of amber -fa of an inch thick, the rings were
             a
 broader than in a plate of topaz ^ of an inch thick.
    8. Ice. The difficulty of making experiments upon ice with
 out melting       the want of a crystalline form, and the imprac
                 it,
 ticability  of  shaping into parallel plates, prevented me from
 obtaining any accurate results.        The following experiments,
however, will throw some light upon this subject.
     A piece of ice TV of an inch thick gave rings much broader
than those exhibited       by  plate of topaz TV of an inch thick.
                                a
 The rings were also seen       by
                                 the reflection of common light from
the posterior surface of the ice, the light reflected from the an
 terior surface being extinguished        by prism of calcareous spar.
                                               a
     A piece of ice ^ of an inch thick exhibited rings larger than
 those given      bya plate of topaz ^ of an inch thick.            The
breadth of one of the fringes shown            byplate
                                                    a  of ice      of an
 inch thick was nearly 5° 26', which compared with the results
 already mentioned, gives          for the thickness of plate of to
                                                        a
 paz that would produce fringe of the same magnitude.
                            a                                    Hence
 the thicknesses of ice and topaz that give rings of equal size are
 a* -j'/g to J,-§^, or as S-95 to    which
                                     1,         nearly the inverse ratio
                                                   is
                                                                     of

 332                    On the Affections      of Light            t
 of (in— 1)J in ice to ('-»'— 1) 5 in topaz, m and m' being the
 indices of refraction*        If we take m= 1-307 and *»'=1'636,
 this ratio will be nearly as 8-9 to 1.            In these experiments the
 two oval central spots were distinctly seen.
  • Light transmitted      at an angle of 46° through a plate of ice
 1-25 inches thick gives rings of the same size as when it is
 transmitted at an angle of 60' 38' through a plate of topaz
 tVtto of an mcn thick.            By calculating the real thicknesses in
 the direction of the transmitted light, it will be found that the;
 thicknesses at which ice and topaz produce rings of the same
 magnitude are as 8-4 to 1, a ratio not very remote from that of
                            —
 (<m— l)3 in ice to (m          l)3 in topaz.
    Light transmitted at an incidence of 36° through a plate of
 ice        of an inch thick gave rings twice as large as those
 shown by a plate of topaz tWo of an m thick.                    These thick
nesses  will  be found,    after   reduction,  to   be   as  8-2 to   1, a ratio
 more remote than any of the former from that of (ra— l)3 to
 (m'-l)'.
    A plate of ice taken from the surface of a pool of water did
not appear to depolarize light, when it was incident perpendi
cularly: but when the angle of incidence was considerable, the
light was depolarized in every direction, and the coloured rings
 appeared even at great obliquities.
    9. Sulphate of potash. A plate of sulphate of potash -^W of
an inch thick gave fringes of colour, each of which was 4° in
breadth, while another plate 113<\jV of an inch thick gave fringes
3° 12' in breadth.        Now
                    135 : 168 = 3° 12': 4° nearly,
so that the diameters of the rings are inversely as the thick
nesses of the plates, as in the case of topaz.               The light was in
cident on the sulphate of potash at an angle of 41°, which gives
-fViro f°r the oblique thickness of the plate               tVW      of an incn
thick.     Now
                      1 7 P   . 10
                     I t; 0 0 - 1   °t I/_
                                       1 — til         *
                                                     . OO
                                           1 0 0 ~o' -     *
                                                           £>'
                                                             9
the size of the ring that would have been produced by a plate
of topaz t'o%t of an mcn thick, so that the thicknesses of sul
phate of potash and topaz that produce equal rings are as TS5
to 1, which is not very far from the ratio of (m— 1) 3 to (m? — 1)'.
If we take ?«= 1 -509 and wi'= 1-636, this ratio will be as 1-D5
to 1.
    10. Tartrate ofpotash and soda.              The neutral axes of this
salt are parallel and perpendicular to the axis of the prism, and
it possesses an oblique depolarizing axis along which the co
loured rings are visible.         The thicknesses of this substance and
of topaz, at which equal rings are produced, are as 31 : J6?
                                                                          which

                    transmitted   through crystallized Bodies.                              333
which          is almost exactly the ratio    of (m— 1)' to (?«'— I)5.                      The
value of m' in the tartrate being 1-515.
    11. Nitrate of potash.       This salt, which is remarkable for
its optical properties*, exhibits along the axis of the hexaedral
prism a series of beautiful miniature rings, twelve of which are
distinctly visible.    In a plate of the nitrate of potash — of an
inch thick, the fourth ring subtended an angle of 5° 45',
whereas, in a plate of topaz -i*o50'0 or an 'llcn thick, it subtended
an angle of 8° 25'.       But
                    Co AZ' . Oo or;'    «_!_ -* * T »
                   t7  tu . (J>               1 0 0 0     1 0 0 0
the thickness of topaz that would give the fourth ring a diame
ter of 5* 45'.   Hence the thicknesses at which the nitrate of
potash and topaz produce rings of equal magnitude are as                                        ?-0-
to igoVo- or as         to 3-97 nearly.
                            1             But assuming the rings to
                                                  by by
vary as (m— 1)', those formed               the nitrate should have
been larger than those exhibited           the topaz in the ratio of
6365:515i, or nearly 1-88 to             Hence the rings formed by
                                             1.
 nitrate of potash are 1-8S x3-97, or 7'5 times smaller than they
should be      their conjugate diameters had varied as
                 if
     12. Acetate      lead.of This doubly refracting crystal melts at
a temperature not much greater than that which bees' wax re
quires, and      takes a long time to cool and crystallize.
                      it                                       When
it   isformed      by
                  heat into a thin film between two plates, the
crystals shoot from different centres, and exhibit          polarized         by
light the most beautiful alternations of the prismatic colours.
When the eye         kept at
                       is      distance from the plate, the colours
                                  a
radiate like the spicula of the salt, and vary at every inclination
of the plate.
    13. Mother        pearl. The coloured rings are extremely bril
                           of
liant in this substance when the polarized light         transmitted     is
almost perpendicularly;      but they do not appear when        pene               it
trates     by
            an oblique path.
    The other substances, which have already been mentioned as
affording coloured rings          by
                                polarized light, exhibit only imper
fect segments of the fringes but in all of them these segments
                                       ;
are distinctly visible, excepting in caoutchouc, where the colours
are extremely faint.
     It   highly probable that the coloured rings will be found in;
          is
 •   I have endeavoured to give    full account of these
                                      a                   the Transactions
                                                                    iu
of the Royr.l Society of Edinburgh, vol. vii. part ii.
 t   The thickness of the plates of ice, sulphate of potash, and nitrate ef
potash, and the inclination of the incident pencil, were measured in the
rudest manner, as my obiect was merely to ascertain in general        there         if
was any connection between the magnitude of the coloured lings and the
refractive power of the body which produced them.
                                                                                        a   still

334 Reflections on the Inadequacy            of the principal Hypotheses
a still greater number        of crystallized bodies.    I have sought for
them in vain in the diamond, native orpiment, Iceland spar,
fluor spar, muriate of soda, carbonate of lead, carbonate of ba-
rytes, the sclerotic coat of the eye, the crystalline lens, and a
great variety of other bodies, and in some of these with so much
care, that they could scarcely have escaped my notice, if they
did exist.       It therefore still remains to be determined, what
kind of crystallization is necessary to their production, and what
relation exists between the magnitude of the rings and the re
fractive power of the body which produces them.                In some of
 the experiments already described, the diameters of the ring?
 seem to vary as (m —             but the anomalies exhibited by amber
 and nitrate of potash completely prove that this is not the law
 by which their magnitude is regulated.
                      I have the honour to be, dear sir,
                                 Your most obedient humble servant,
                                                      David Brewster.
 To Sir Humphry Davy,            LL.D., &c. &c.
 LV.     Reflections on the Inadequacy of the principal Hypotheses
           to account for the Phcenomena of Electricity.
    [Abridged    from a Memoir read to the Kirwanian Society April 1st,
                     15th ; -May 13th, and June 17th,
                                                      1812.]
                       By M. Donovan, Esq. Sec*
 The discoveries of late years, made in chemistry by the agency
 of electricity have given increased interest to electrical investi
gations.       It has been supposed that Galvanic phaenomena are
 produced by electricity ; and in order to explain them, recourse
has been had to the hypotheses ef Franklin and others.               Since
 then this agent is considered to have so great a share in the-
operations of nature, it is of some importance that the explana
 tions given of its effects should stand the test of reasoning and
 tif experiment.         It were indeed to be lamented, that the in
 teresting    series-   of  phaenomena     called electro-chemical should
 depend    for  explanation     on principles not founded in fact.     Yet
such I apprehend is the case.           I have occasionally indulged my
self in reflections on the theories of electricity, and I conceived;
that there is not qne of them capable of sustaining even a super
ficial examination.          As my objections are for the most part dif
 ferent from those which have hitherto been stated by various in
 quirers, I thought that to make them known might, perhaps,
 have some useful tendency.
             •*
                Communicated in its present form by the Author.
                                                                   Amidst

                to account  for  the Vhcenomena       of Electricity.      335
         Amidst the great variety of hypotheses that have been pro-
    posed to explain the phaenomena of electricity, two only ar«
 ''
    deserving of particular attention.           In that which bears the
    name of Franklin, it is conceived that the supposition of one
    fluid-only is necessary : in the other, two are presumed to ope
    rate.
       -
         Previously to the consideration of Franklin's hypothesis, it will
    be necessary to state the main facts, upon which its principles
     are founded.
                                    Phcenomena.
          1. Some bodies after certain processes, as friction, heating,
     &c. are found to be possessed of peculiar properties.            By cer
     tain management the power which occasions these properties
     may be transferred to distant matter.              In its passage it often
     becomes sensible to all the external senses.
          2. This power when acting upon bodies at liberty of motion
     will cause them to approach or recede from each other accord
     ing to circumstances.
          3. Bodies differ from each other in their habitudes with regard
     to this power ; some possessing as a primary property the power
     of producing the peculiar effects above mentioned.                 Others
      possess it as a secondary property, derived by some action ex
     erted on them by the former class.
          These two classes of bodies differently affect the motions of
     the power.      The former class offers considerable resistance : the
      latter, none that can be appreciated.
          4. This peculiar power is capable of producing its effects in
      different degrees of intensity.       In a low degree it produces the
     effects (as 2) : in a high degree, it is attended with heat and
      light, and occasions violent effects on the animal oeconomy.
          The principles brought forward by Dr. Franklin in explana
      tion of these phaenomena are partly hypothetical and partly
-     theoretical.    For the sake of distinction, I will in the following
       statement apply the term assumed to the principles of the for
       mer kind, and inferred to those of the latter : and those which
       are of a mixed nature, theoretical in their character, but ulti
       mately referring to an hypothesis, shall be designated by the
       term deduced.
           1. From phaenomenon       1st, it is inferred that the power pro
       ducing  the  preceding   effects  is a material substance sui generis.
           2. As bodies acted upon in the same manner will always re
       cede from each other (pheenom. 2), and as bodies not so acted
       upon remain stationary, it appears that it is the electrical mat
       ter which causes the recedence ; and that the ultimate particles
       of this electrical matter have separately and collectively a mu
                                                                                 1
                                                                          tually

      336 Reflections on the Inadequacy           of the principal    Hypotheses
     Jually repulsive power. Hence it is inferred that electricity is
                                                                 - •
     .an elastic fluid.                                        .
          3. Concerning the place of this fluid in creation, it is as
      sumed that every kind of matter contains electricity, and that
      a mutual attraction exists between the containing and contained
      matter.
             -
          4. Since it is inferred that the particles of the fluid are re
    pulsive of each other, it appears that there must exist such a
      state as an equilibrium : for, as each particle repels all others
      surrounding with equal force, it follows that all the particles
      will find a state of rest when the forces are balanced.
          5. In the preceding principle it is inferred that an equilibrium
      does exist.        From this and principle 3d it is deduced, that the
    , equilibrium        once found will be diffused throughout all bodies,
    . and that        all bodies must contain as much of the fluid as its
      particles    will   admit.
   i
        -
          6.   It is  assumed    that this equilibrium may be disturbed, the
   .absolute quantity remaining the same; an excess above the
      common standard being found in one part, and a corresponding
      diminution in the other.           Or it may be disturbed in different
     bodies.        Hence it is deduced that
          7. a. In bodies containing an excess, the fluid being not
     equally resisted possesses great elasticity.          A body already con
     taining its        natural  quantity will admit no more ; consequently
     the excess remains on the outside, and forms an atmosphere.
     Such bodies, as they move with their atmosphere, must repel
     each other.          Bodies in the state of diminution must have some
   tparticles        of   their substance vacant; these particles will be
  . attracted by the fluid          surrounding them in the air: and such
  i.bodics will seem to repel each other by virtue of divellent at
     tractions.          A body with an excess must attract one in the
  .natural state, to restore the equilibrium ; and when this happens,
  • both
              having still an excess, they will repel each other.          Lastly,
    a body with a diminished quantity will attract one in the na
  tural state to restore the equilibrium; and when this happens,
  :both having now a diminished quantity, will seem to repel each
  .other as before.            Thus does the hypothesis account for all the
 tphrenomena of attraction and repulsion.
        8. From phaenomenon            8, it appears that glass and other
 .electrics afford         a resistance  to the passage of electricity*>-- Hence
 .it is assumed that electrics are absolutely impermeable to the
 .electric fluid.          From this and from hypothesis 6, it is deduced,
 -
   that if the equilibrium of an electric be disturbed, one part will
.contain, an excess, and another part a corresponding diminution;
i  Yet the eagerness of the excess to give, and that of the vacant
   particles of matter to receive, are forces operating to restore the
                                                                     equilibrium.

               to account for the Phenomena     of Electricity.                337
Equilibrium.     This cannot take place through the glass: but
when the connection is made between the different states, by a
proper substance, both are brought into equilibrium, with the
production of light, heat, and violent effects on the animal ceco-
nomy, as in phaenomenon 4.
    9. Since the equilibrium between two bodies my be disturbed,
and since friction is one of the causes that disturbs the equili
brium, it is assumed that electrics, when rubbed, suffer an en
largement of their pores '. that the excess enters the increased
capacity, and that when the attrition ceases, it is expelled by
                                                          '
the closing of the pores to their ordinary dimensions.
    The whole of the foregoing doctrines may be reduced to the
five following propositions,    and in this order it           is,
                                                             for con
venience, proposed to examine them.
     I.The power producing electrical appearances           an elastic
                                                               is
matter, sui generis.
  '
    2.    attracts all matter, and
          It                           found equally distributed in
                                      is
all matter of the same kind.      To these two propositions are to
be referred the phaenomena     of attraction, repulsion, and equili
bria.
   3. Certain substances called electrics      are impermeable   to the
 electric fluid.
    4. The disturbance of the equilibrium may be effected                      by   a
 separation of the natural quantity into excess and diminution.
 This may happen in different parts of the same body, or in dif
 ferent bodies.
    5. When this separation     iseffected     attrition between dif
                                               by
ferent bodies, one of which must be an electric, the pores of the
latter being opened, will receive the plus quantity, and will give
it  out again when the pores close.       To the latter three proposi
tions are to be referred condensation and excitation.
     1. With regard to the first proposition that electricity                   is
matter,    it    conclusion which any one who judges from facts
                is
                a
would be induced to draw.        It passes from one body to another
in   a visible form.       produces such a concussion on the solid
                           It
matter of the air as to cause    a loud explosion.       Itwell known
                                                              is
to perforate bodies which even offer considerable resistance          so   :
a quire of paper will be pierced with as much ease as            would
                                                                     it
by pistol ball.
     a               If passed through tube of oil or water, will
                                           a                              it
split the tube into minute fragments       :and    the fluid had been
                                                    if
ink,  it would have been dispersed with such force as not to sully
a sheet of paper placed underneath.          That any material agent
affects these appearances has been called in question                Sir  by
 H. Davy. When folds of paper are perforated             by
                                                          an electrical
discharge, there      is   burr raised on both sides, and this Sir
                           a
 H. Davy considers as an evidence that nothing passed .through,
    Vol. 44. No. 199. Nov. 1814.                Y                    as,

338 Reflections on the Inadequacy            of the principal   Hypotheses
as,   if it did, it
                  could only, he observes, penetrate in one direc
tion.     To conclude:   because the passage is effected in two dif
ferent directions, that nothing passed, appears to me an in
ference of a very questionable nature.       Sir H. Davy attributes
the phaenomenon to attractions acting in opposite directions.
But were this so, a battery discharged through a quantity of
light powder should collect it round the wires when the circuit
was interrupted ; whereas it is dispersed in all directions.     On
the whole it is not likely that the opinion of Sir H. Davy will
become general ; it therefore need not be more minutely dis
cussed.
   That the electric matter is an elastic fluid is a position that
does not appear to be sufficiently supported.      The experiments
which are supposed to countenance this principle are two, along
with some others which do not deserve much consideration.
First, bodies which beside their natural quantity contain an ex
cess of electricity, in a free state, are found to repel each other ;
the repulsion being attributed to the particles of the fluid
acting on each other.         Secondly, the electric matter when
issuing from   a  pointed body in open air, appears like a diverging
cone of rays,  which    Dr. Franklin thinks must be caused by self
repulsion.
   The evidence in favour of both these opinions is very insuffi
cient.     In the former case, there is no certainty that there is an
excess, and in the latter, proof is wanted that electric matter is
then issuing from the point.         With regard to the repulsion of
bodies in similar states, it certainly takes place in many experi
ments'.     I have, however, observed an instance in which no re
pulsion, but an attraction takes place.
   Let a pith ball be suspended from a glass rod, and let an ex
cited tube be brought under        it, but so as not to touch. If the
tube be now moved        alittle to one side from under the ball, the
latter follows the tube for a short distance, but as the suspended
ball in moving describes a curve, its gravity at length overcomes
the attraction of the tube,       itseparates a little, and having now
received the state of the tube,          it   immediately repelled to a
                                                 is
        distance.    When    the  tube          approached, the ball
                                         is is
                                          again
                                                                             is is
great
still repelled but when the tube
                :                         forced still nearer, the ball
attracted, and continues to be so until the tube being removed
as at first,  itseparates    byits weight and     imnJediately repelled
                                                      is
as before.      The same effects may be produced               any other
                                                                by
electric.     The results may at first be doubtful, but by repetition
they will clearly show that in this instance the electric matter
causes either attraction or repulsion as the distance           small or
                                                                 is
great.
   As to the diverging rays proceeding from a point, their evi
                                                                   dence

            to account for the Vhcenomena        of Electricity.         339
 tlence entirely depends on the supposition that electricity is then
 issuing out.      But this itself is no more than an assumption,
 therefore, the fact proves nothing : and even were the direction
 of the fluid admitted, it would still afford no evidence.             For if
  the divergence be occasioned by the repulsion of the particles
 as an essential property, it is evident that the same effects
 must be produced in all cases where the fluid is at liberty.
 Where a property of matter acts on similar matter only, the
 effects cannot be dependant on any other body.                 Now what
 ever the divergence may be in air, which resists the electric
 matter, it must be much greater in a medium which offers little
 or no resistance, if the divergence depend on an essential pro
 perty of the particles themselves.        But quite contrary is the fact,
 for it is well known that electricity, during its passage through a
 long exhausted receiver, passes with scarcely any appearance of
 divergence : parallel rays traverse from one end to the other.
  The moment that air is let in, the divergence appears ; evidently
 proving that it is the medium and not a property of the electric
 matter which produces the effect.
      Thus it appears that these two facts do not bear out the sup
 position of elasticity which has been founded on them.              I do not
 pretend    to say that the  electric   matter  is not elastic ;  it  may, or
 it may not: I see no more evidence in favour of one opinion
 than the other.      Yet on this principle rest the doctrines con
 cerning the repulsion of similarly electrified bodies, the charging
 of jars, and equilibria.
      2. The second principle is that electricity attracts all matter.
 All matter must then attract electricity, and therefore the latter
 is dispersed throughout all bodies.           Franklin adds     " we know
  the electrical fluid is in common matter, because we can pump
  it out by the globe or tube.          We know that common matter.
  has near as much as it can contain, because, when we add a
  little more to any portion of it the additional quantity does not
 enter, but forms an electric atmosphere.              And we know that
  common matter has not (generally) more than it can contain ;
  otherwise all loose portions of it would repel each other, as they
  constantly do when they have electric atmospheres*."                 This is
  proving one assertion by another which is no more than an hy
  pothesis, and which does not even seem to be well founded as
  will presently appear.      Had it been established that we do ac
  cumulate the fluid it might then be allowed that it is pumped
. out.    That common matter has as much electricity as it can
   contain, he proves by the formation of atmospheres : but we may
  as well suppose with .Sipinus and others, that electrical atmo
  spheres do not exist.
                            * Franklin-s Letters, 56.
                                  Y   2                          Concerning

340 Reflections on the Inadequacy                        of the principal Hypotheses
    Concerning the equal distribution of electricity which follows
from the first and second principle, Dr. Franklin observes " that
when a quantity of electrical matter is applied to a mass of any
bigness or length within -our observation (which hath not al
ready got its quantity) it is immediately and equally diffused
throughout the whole *."           It is supposed that insensible elec
tricity  exists naturally    in the  pores of all-bodies, that it can be
abstracted and forced to exist in an insulated form, while the
body remains Vacant.          Let us conceive a body either totally or
in part deprived of its share of natural electricity, " when a.
quantity of electrical matter is applied, it is immediately and
equally diffused through the whole."           Now if the body in ques
tion be of glass thus negatively electrified, and if so much sen
sible electricity be imparted as was abstracted ; it must be equally
diffused as before.       But it must be remembered, that the hypo
thesis supposes glass to be impermeable to electricity ; " let it
first be considered that we cannot by any means we are ac
 quainted with force the electric fluid through glass f," nor into
 any part of        for Dr. Franklin after grinding away 5-6ths of
                 it it,                                                                   a
phial   found      no  more pervious than before, demonstrating that
it  was not the middle stratum alone of the glass, as he first sup--
posed, which refused a passage to the fluid.              am aware thatI
he does not allow         similar electricity to exist simultaneously in
                            a
 all parts of the glass         : enough
                                    it   is  he allow that any paYt may
                                                         if
be negatively electrified       for in this case the fluid must have left
                                     :
that part, which         could not do were glass impermeable
                           it                                           and          :
if  one part allow a passage, so must every other.               Thus the
doctrine of equal distribution          on all sides surrounded
                                              is                       diffi     by
culties;   it     incompatible with the doctrine of impermeability
                 is                                                                       :
if  one be admitted the other must be rejected.
    The attraction and repulsion of light bodies comes under ex.-
 amination in this place.        Dr. Franklin conceives that all matter
is  full of the electric fluid, and that a mutual attraction subsists
 between both.        Now       matter can contain no more
                                    if                                   be     it   is
 cause it   has no further attraction        for from the nature of an
                                                         :
 equilibrium all attractions must be saturated.          This conclusion
is  confirmed         his statement that "
                      by                         more be added,
                                                              if         lies        it
Without upon the surface, and forms- what we call an electric at
 mosphere," which could not happen unless the attraction of the
 body to more were destroyed.           From all this     follows that at
                                                                       it
 traction   is exerted between matter and its natural quantity only
 of electricity, but in the ordinary state of things this attraction
is  insensible.     Facts, however, convince us that           sensible at  a
 traction exists between free electricity and matter which already
                      * Franklin's Letters,        55.             Ibid. 73.
                                                               f
                                                                                 contains

            to account for the Phenomena                of Electricity.                      341
contains its natural proportion.      And as this natural proportion
is really an affirmative and abstractible quantity, why does not
another affirmative quantity produce repulsion and not attrac
tion ?     For an experiment to prove that, according to the hypo
thesis, a repulsion between natural and affirmative quantities,
does exist, we need only refer to Dr. Franklin himself.           " Hang
a silk tassel on the prime conductor, and bring an excited tube
under the tassel, and the threads will diverge. Because part of
their natural quantity is thereby driven out of them, and they
become negatively electrified, and therefore repel each other*."
From this he deduces the following principle ; " an electric
atmosphere not only repels another electric atmosphere, but will
also repel the electric matter contained in the substance of a
body approaching it; and, without joining or mixing with                                      it,
force it   to other parts of the body that contained itf."            How
these conclusions can be reconciled to the fact, that            body in
                                                                                is a
 the natural state     attracted
                         is                by
                                      an excited electric,        difficult
 tp determine.
    This experiment of the tassel leads the Franklinians into an
other difficulty.    They have applied the attraction of electricity
for matter to account for why bodies when repelled move with
 their atmospheres.     " If two bodies be both of them overcharged,
the electric atmospheres repel each other, and both the bodies
recede from one another to places where the fluid             less dense.  is
 For   as there  issupposed   to be a mutual   attraction    between     all
bodies and the electric fluid, electrified bodies go along with their
 atmospheres    J  ." There may be an attraction between matter
 and its natural quantity, but Dr. Franklin's experiment with the
 tassel professes to show that there         a repulsion between an
                                                   is
 affirmative atmosphere and the natural quantity.             Hence the
 surrounding media containing their natural portion should not
 permit the recedence of the balls.
     In the present state of knowledge we suppose that an elastic
 fluidis   an assemblage of material particles surrounded           atmo           by
spheres of repulsion.       The co-existence of such particles must
 produce    a  state of uniform density which         called an equili
                                                               is
 brium.      In the idea of an equilibrium repulsion alone             sup             is
 posed to operate, attraction must entirely be excluded.            Hence
if   by  any means     number of particles how great soever of the
                        a
 fluid can be accumulated in any body, that body must repel an
 other which may contain a number however few. This exactly
 agrees with Franklin-s conception of the case             he maintains
                                                                    :
 that quantities of fluid with any difference whatever of density
 repel each other        This principle
                        §.                  productive of a train of
                                                   is
     *     Franklin,   160.        f   H«d, 153.         X   Prieitley's    Hist.      56.
                        §     Franklin, 407.
                                         Y     3                                       contra

342 Reflections on the Inadequacy           of the principal Hypotheses
 contradictions ; and nothing can be so effectually subversive of
 his whole system as the consequences which flow from it.                  It
 will be necessary to trace but a few of those instances in which
 facts are at variance with this principle.          A body slightly posi
 tive, and one strongly so repel each other ; the powers differing
 in density.       A body slightly negative repels one strongly so, the
 powers also differing in density.          A body positive differs from
 one negative only in density, and yet they attract each other
 violently.      Suppose the interval between the minimum and
 maximum of density to be divided into seven terms, and the
 medium term 4 to be the natural density of all bodies : 1 and 2
 repel, 2 and 3 repel, but 3 and 4 attract ; 4 and 5 attract, but
 5 and 6, or 6 and 7 repel.           Again, 7 violently repels 5 with the
 difference 2, but when the difference increased by 1 more
  (total difference 3), a violent attraction takes place.          From all
 this it is plain that the phaenomena of attraction and repulsion
  are completely at variance with the theory : and from what fol
  lows this will appear still more strikingly.
      To explain why a body positively electrified attracts one in
  the negative state, recourse is had to that principle which sup
  poses the attraction of electricity to all matter.           For the por
  tions of matter which are deprived of their natural quantity
  must be attracted by any body which contains an excess : we
  shall see how far the explanation is applicable.
      From the nature of an equilibrium it must be supposed, as
  has already been observed, that every particle of electricity is
   attracted by a certain number of particles of matter in a given
  body: let us say one to one. Franklin conceives that a strong
  power will repel the natural quantity in any body.                If then a
  body     A   contain   10   particles  of   matter   attracted  by 10 of
   electricity,   that body  is in  the  natural  state.   If a body B con
   taining 10 particles of matter, and 20 of electricity be brought
  near A, it ought to happen, from the principle in question, that
   a repulsion would take place.          If one particle of electricity be
   taken from A, one particle of matter is left vacant, which must
   be attracted by B.        But the latter attraction is exerted towards
  one particle only      of matter; the repulsion is exerted towards 9 ;
  the bodies consequently still repel : and no attraction can take
  place until the vacant particles exceed in number those which
  possess their natural quantity of electricity.          Such are the con
   sequences     which   ought    to  happen,   were   the  hypotheses well
   founded :    it  is plain  how    much  they disagree with facts.      Ex
   periment shows that a body however slightly negative, will be
   attracted by one that is positive.        In the foregoing example, if
   the body A in its natural state be presented to B with its in
   creased power, no attraction ought to take place, as there is no
                                                                       vacant

          to account for the Phenomena            of Electricity.            343
 vacant particle : or if a negative body be presented to a body in
 the natural state, there should be no attraction, yet in both cases
 the contrary is the fact in an eminent degree.
    On this principle also of the attraction of electricity to matter
 has the repulsion of a negative body by another been explained.
 It is laid down by Franklin, that in this case when the bodies
 are partly deprived of their quantity, the vacant particles of
 matter are attracted by the denser fluid of the atmosphere, thus
 causing a divergence.       But the surrounding air, like other mat
 ter, strongly attracts its quantity of electricity and the reacting
 attraction of the latter is exactly equal.     From this it becomes
 probable, and it is allowed by Franklin in many parts of his
 works, that when electricity is present in the natural proportion
 only, it exerts no properties.     How then can his other principle
 be reconciled, namely, that it is the natural portion of the sur
 rounding media that causes the divellent attraction, or in other
words the apparent repulsion.
    But the divergence of the bodies shows that the natural
 quantity of the surrounding air has been abstracted, as other
 wise these bodies in order to receive electricity need not diverge.
 This diminution of the natural proportion of the air constitutes
 a negatively electrified atmosphere.      A ball surrounded by such
 an atmosphere may be conceived to lie in the central point of a
circle. The attraction of the denser fluid in the air, beyond the
negative atmosphere,         exerted on the ball : but as the attrac
tion is equal on all sides, the ball remains stationary.        Consi
dering   the extreme   difficulty with which  air* and  other  electrics
part with their portion, it follows that if any sudden impulse be
given to the ball which can impart the smallest eccentricity, the
ball being no longer equally attracted, ought to         fly
                                                         to the nearest
peripheral part of the negative atmosphere where the boundary
of the denser fluid begins. For the motion of the ball               in
                                                                     is is
stantaneous, and the alteration of electricity in the air          very
slow.   It   isalmost unnecessary to remark, that this inferred re
 sult does not correspond with experiment.
  If  two pith balls suspended by       aconducting thread hang in
opposition, and   if an excited stick of wax be brought over them
they instantly separate by receiving the state of the wax.         The
first effect of the wax was to rarify the fluid natural to the balls          ;
an attraction then commenced, between the balls and the conti
guous stratum of air, and some time should elapse before this
stratum would be deprived of its share.        The succeeding strata
should slowly part with their quantities, and the balls          diver
                                                                    in
ging should occupy times proportional to the slowness of the
                          * Franklin,   passim.
                              Y  4                              alteration

344 Reflections on the Inadequacy      of the principal  Hypotheses
alteration produced on the air.      But the fact is far otherwise ;
the divergence, amounting to several inches, being instantaneous
when the wax touches the conductor from which the balls are
suspended.
     The imperfections of this part of the theory were not long
 concealed from the penetration of its ingenious inventor.          He
always mentioned his opinions with that hesitation and modesty
 which so eminently characterize the operations of superior minds.
 Cavallo, however, with a self-security which is ever apt to excite
 distrust, maintains*, that " by this hypothesis which is analogous
 to the other phaenomena of nature, the electrical appearances
 are easily explained, and that there is not a single experiment
 that seems to contradict it." He nevertheless was necessitated
 to give a different view of negative repulsion from Franklin's^ and
 whoever examines it will probably consider it far less probable s
 he will find facts attempted to be proved by assumed principles
 which may either be denied or allowed, which rest for proof on
 the thing to be proved.
     With regard to this long controverted speculative qfiestion,
 whether the recedence of negatively electrified bodies be occa
 sioned by a mutual repulsion, or by the divellent attraction of
 the electricity naturally contained in the surrounding media, I
  I have made an experiment which, notwithstanding its simpli
 city, seems strongly to countenance the former of these pro
 positions.
     A filament stript from a downy feather was suffered to float
 in the air, and an excited stick of wax was approached.
 The filament was immediately attracted but soon after flew off
 to a great distance.      By current of air the filament was carried
 off several yards from its former situation.      The wax being sud
  denly approached     within  about   15  inches,  the filament again
 flew off ; and by following it with the electric it might be driven
  to any part. Upon this experiment we may reason as follows :
     After the contact of the filament and wax, both must have
  been in the same state : the former flew off to where the fluid is
 'supposed to have existed in a denser state. When it was carried
 to a distance of several yards, it must have entered a completely
 neutral atmosphere.       When the wax was suddenly approached,
  it also must have passed into a neutral atmosphere ; yet the fila
  ment instantly flew off. Must not this be a direct repulsion ?
  It cannot reasonably be supposed, during the passage of the
  wax to the filament, that the former had absorbed all the na
  tural fluid of the air : so quick an absorption from an electrio,
  and by an electric could not take place ; and even were this
                         * Complete Treatise, 107.
                                                               possible,

           to account   for       the Phenomena         of Electricity.           345
possible, the filament should have absorbed as much fluid as
had been deficient in       and so would be brought to the natural
                              it,
state.
  If   the foregoing reasonings be just,       would appear that the
                                                    it
second principle of the theory does not accord with the phae
nomena which       it  intended to explain, and that all arguments
                        ie
founded on    it are contradictory to facts and amongst themselves.
The third principle       next to be considered.
                             is
   3. The impermeability of glass           position which seems in
                                              is
                                               a
compatible with the doctrine of plus and minus.            a plane of
glass be made negative        should remain so for ever
                                   it                      electricityif If
cannot return into it.      But the previous question occurs, How
did the natural portion get out,        glass refuse a passage to
                                          if                                       it?
This perhaps cannot be answered without multiplicity of hy-  a
potheses
    As to the fact, whether or not glass    actually impermeable,
                                                        is
many experiments have been made, but they all appear to be of
doubtful force, and may be explained in some manner without
supposing that electricity passed through.        am not aware that
                                                             I
this objection can apply to the following.
    Having procured     sphere of very thin glass about
                             a                                 inches         2
                                                                              \
diameter, furnished with     neck    inches long, coated its lower
                                      a   9                      I
hemisphere outside with tin-foil, and poured into        mercury     it             al
most as high as the coating.       moveable wire proceeding from
                                          A
the conductor of an electric machine dipped down into the mer
cury.    The flask was charged through this wire, the latter was
withdrawn, and the neck was sealed, by a blow-pipe, so far as
barely to admit the passage of the wire.         now found that the
                                                             I
flask was as capable of giving a shock as before, proving that
the heat used in sealing did not draw out the charge.             The
flask was again strongly charged, and its neck totally sealed.
After an immersion of 14 days in water, the neck was cut off,
the glass was completely dried, and         wire was pushed down
                                                    a
into the mercury.        shock not exceeding
                             A                    -20th of the force
                                                             1
of the original charge was the result which shows that 19-20ths
                                               :
must have left the glass.     The experiment was repeated with
 numerous precautions      the sphere was exposed to the air for
                                  :
six months and at the end of this time not
              :                                   trace of electricity
                                                             a
could be detected when the neck was cut.
    Dr. Franklin had made some trials with similar object        a                   in
 view  : but he was led to a conclusion directly the reverse of
 mine.    Perhaps the greater thickness of the glass in his ex
periment, may reconcile the results.
    Although       appears that glass
                  it                      in the strict sense of the
                                                   is
word, permeable to electricity, yet the fluid passes through                         it
with so much difficulty and so slowly that Franklin's position
                                                                                  might

 346. Reflections on the Inadequacy      of the principal       Hypotheses
   might be admitted.       But by admitting        it,
                                                      as much injury         is
   done to the hypothesis as by denying it.           In either case nu
  merous incompatibilities with the other principles' and with facts
   occur, as has been and will further be seen.
      4. Under the examination of the fourth principle we have to
   consider the doctrine of plus and minus electricity. Franklin
  states that in the charging of a Leyden phial the following
   changes take place.      Suppose that on each surface of the glass
   are 20 particles, constituting the natural portion of electricity,
  and that one surface will receive as much as the other loses and
  no more.    If    1 be added to the inside   it will have 21, and the
  outside only 19: and when the outside has lost all, the inside
  will have 40.      Thus the phial when charged contains no more
  than when not charged, except that the quantity in the latter
  case contained on both surfaces,       is  in the former case, con
  densed upon one.        The equilibrium cannot be obtained through
  the glass but when a conducting communication
          :                                                     established
                                                               is
  between both surfaces,     the  excess of the one       eagerly received
                                                          is
  by the other, and the equilibrium           isrestored with violence.
  Each surface now contains its natural 20 particles and every
 thing remains in the same state as before charging.
      The whole may be comprised in the three following positions.
  -1    . Electrics part with or receive no more electricity         at one
  surface than they can receive or part with at the other.
 -    2. When an electric     is   charged, one surface contains the
 quantity of fluid which in the natural state         isdiffused on both ;
 the other side     isconsequently   vacant.
      8. After the discharge the equilibrium          restored, and both
                                                     is
 surfaces cease to show electrical appearances, being precisely in
 the same state as before charging. With regard to the first posi
 tion, experiments do not seem to afford much support.                  Mr.
 Wilson, having rubbed one surface of a large plane of glass in
 the middle with his finger, found both surfaces electrified posi
 tively.     If the rubbed side had been previously roughed, both
 surfaces became negative.        To these cases may be added the fol
 lowing. Let solid rod of rough glass be excited with a cat's-skin
                a
 rubber; the rod will be negatively electrified all round.          Never
 theless it.
           is    probablya   truth  that one state  of electricity cannot
be called into action without the other's existence, at least, in
some other body: but we must distinguish facts from hypotheses.
     Relating to the second position, namely, that of accumulation
and deficiency,     I  have made experiments which seem to oppose
this doctrine.      According to Franklin      a  complete charge in     a
jar is    obtained   when  its inside surface (if charged through the
ball) contains its own natural quantity with that of the outside.
 In this case the outside    is in an absolute state of deficiency, and
                                                                         as

               to account  for  the Pktznomena     of Electricity.        347
  as eager to receive as the inside is to give out.         During the pro
  gress    of charging,    both   surfaces  ought   to  manifest   their cha
  racteristic properties in proportion as the charging increases.
  Whether or not this is the case will be seen by the following ex
  periments.       The apparatus employed was an insulated jar from
  the stem of which projected a wire at right angles, and from
  the outside coating another, two pith-balls being attached to
  each by means of gilt thread.
\     The jar, perfectly dry, is to be placed on the insulating stand,
  and a chain is to be connected with the outside, so as to form
  a communication with the ground. The electric machine being
  in strong action, is made to pour in a stream of sparks until the
  jar be fully charged. The chain being removed, the balls con
  nected with the inner surface will be repelled by excited sulphur,
   and those with the outer surface will be attracted.           If the inside
  be now positive, why are the balls repelled by sulphur ? and if
  the outer surface be negative, why are its balls attracted ?
       If the jar be weakly charged, the results are as described by
  Franklin, and it was no doubt on such that this philosopher
  made his observations.         But were the doctrine of accumulation
   and deficiency well founded, the results should be the more de
  cided as the jar is more strongly charged.            Yet when the hypo
   thesis supposes the jar to contain the greatest quantity of elec
  tricity, it is then that it evinces symptoms of containing the
   least.
       The error does not relate merely to the surface occupied by
   the accumulation.        Let the jar with its wires, balls, &c. be set
   on the stand as before, but not connected with the ground.
   Let the jar be charged*, and while the cylinder is still turning
   let the surfaces be examined : it will be found that excited sul
   phur repels the balls of both the inside and outside.                  This
  cannot be explained while it is supposed that the outside is
  then giving out electricity, urged by the repulsion of the fluid
   thrown in : for in this case if any body with a diminished quan
   tity, as sulphur, be presented, an attraction ought to follow.
  When the charging is discontinued, another militating phaeno
   menon occurs: the balls collapse, and after touching, again se
   parate, but with a different power, for they are now attracted
   by excited sulphur.
       Here then are strong instances which oppose the Franklinian
  hypothesis ; it appears that the supposed excess may evince the
  symptoms of a state of diminution without any abstraction having
  taken place ; and the diminution may appear to be an excess
  without any addition. Perhaps there are on the whole no grounds
      *  The wire on the outside acting as a point or as a communication   with
   the ground, suffers the charge to take place.
                    ,                                                       for

348 Reflections        on the Inadequacy        of the principal Hypotheses
for supposing such states           as plus and minus : they are scarcely
applicable     to  any facts,      and    they perplex some ; the following
which I accidentally observed, affords an instance.                 A pair of
gilt pith-balls are suspended by gilt strings from a brass insu
lated socket.          When a stick of excited sulphur is brought in
contact with the socket, the balls diverge negatively.                  If the
contact of the sulphur          and   socket    be  continued without stirring
the sulphur, the balls will nevertheless in some time come to
gether, if now the sulphur be suddenly withdrawn, the balls
will separate to perhaps a greater distance than before ; but they
have diverged with a contrary state of electricity, they are now
positive*.       The first effect of the sulphur was, according to the
Franklinians, to deprive the balls and surrounding air of their
natural electricity, the balls then separated being negatively
 electrified.     At length still retaining the negative state, they
come together, the sulphur is then removed, and at the time
when the halls and air have lost even their natural portion of
electricity, they manifest the appearance of an excess !
    With regard to the position that the Leyden phial is under
the same circumstances after the discharge as before charging,
the following facts afford some doubts.                 Beccaria charged two
 glass plates, each coated on one side only, and applied them
 closely together with the uncoated sides facing : the whole re
 sembling one coated charged plate.                   When a communication
 was formed between both surfaces, an explosion took place, but
 the plates cohered with great force.
    I coated a glass plate on one side, within an inch of the edge,
 thus leaving an uncoated margin all round.                 The uncoated side
 opposite   the  foil  was  rubbed    with   an amalgamated leather. . When
 the glass was      well   excited,     1   placed a corresponding metallic
 coatings by its glass handle, on the surface of the plate, and,
 by making mv finger and thumb the circuit between the sur
 faces, I received a slight shock.             By touching the metallic coat
 ing  and  raising    it by its  glass handle, a large spark was obtained :
 and by continuing this process, a considerable number of
 sparks were drawn, which for a long time seemed to increase in
 strength.      The same appearance but in a less degree may be
 produced     bv  charging the plate from an electric machine, and
 afterwards using it as an electrophorus.                 Do not these experi
 ments indicate that after the discharge, the natural state was
 not resumed ?
     From all the preceding            considerations    it would appear, that
     * This experiment requires attention, and will not succeed in all states
  eFthe weather. The same may be said of some of the foregoing experi
  ments.   If two balls do not succeed one will in a less striking manner an
  swer. Its change of state may be ascertained in the usual manner.
                                                                       positive

          to account   for    the Phcenomena        of Electricity.                 349
positive electricity is not an accumulation, nor negative a defi
ciency of this peculiar matter : that jars in order to become
charged, need not assume the characters of the two states : and
that when discharged the electrical appearances do not cease.
    5. The fifth and last position relates to the excitation of
electrics.    Franklin's supposition         is,   that " glass,      abody ex
tremely elastic, must when rubbed have its rubbed surface some
what stretched, or its solid parts drawn a little further asunder,
so that the vacancies in which the electric fluid resides, become
larger, affording room for more of that fluid, which                      imme
                                                                          is
diately  attracted    into it  from   the    cushion   or  hand  rubbing, they
being supplied from the common stock.                     But the instant the
parts so opened and filled, have passed the friction, they close
again, and force the additional quantity out on the surface*."
    This statement appears very objectionable.                  Granting that
glass  when    rubbed    may   have   the   interstices   between   its particles
enlarged, why      should   electricity   rush   into  them      ?   any do en
                                                                     If
ter  it must be at the expense         of  the rubber.      But the rubber          it
self has"a strong attraction to its natural quantity;                itshould be
left negative, and the glass would be positive therefore, as there
                                                             ;
is  so strong an attraction between such states, the equilibrium
would be instantly restored. There            is    not even any reason why
the equilibrium should have been disturbed               : the repulsion       on
                                                                                is
every side equal, and Franklin allows that under such circum
stances, there can be no disturbance.               If  the pores of the glass
be opened,      itdoes not follow that they should have a tendency
to take in more electricity.             There are much more efficient
 modes of increasing the distance of the particles, for instance by
heating, and yet this         is  an operation seldom connected with
electrical appearances.
    Franklin supposes that no electricity can be received upon
one surface of glass unless the other can part with an equal
quantity.      In the case of the excitation of the common cylinder,
 the inner surface having no connection with conductors can part
with none how then can its outer surface receive the great
            :
 quantities that we find on         it
                                     ?
    In the excitation of an electrophorus, the vacancies                       by
                                                                             rub
 bing may be enlarged but when the rubbing ceases, they should
                          :
 close and expel all electricity.       So contrary      isthis to fact, that         by
 one excitation seven or eight hundred sparks may be obtained.
.But what     is  still more irreconcilable        is  that while the sulphur
 cake and metallic plate are in contact,                ifthe latter be gently
 passed   off  along    the  surface    of   the   sulphur,. scarcely another
*park   can   be  obtained.
                                * Franklin, 78.
                                                                                     It

350              New Outlines      of Chemical Philosophy.
    It is unnecessary to enter more fully into the discussion of s
position so discordant with phaenomena and so limited in its ap
plication.
    Such is a statement and short examination of the system laid
down by Franklin to explain the phaenomena of electricity: a
system which from its novelty, ingenuity, and from the modesty
of its illustrious inventor, was received with admiration by most
philosophers of that day.           The charms of novelty are now no
more, the catalogue        of facts is increased, neither prepossession
nor prejudice are likely at this distance of time to influence
judgement : the imperfections of the hypothesis may therefore
 be fairly appreciated.       And yet this hypothesis is always referred
to as the basis of the doctrines of Galvanism.                In the present
 dignified   and    improved state       of  natural  science      every thing
should be rejected without reserve, without respect to authority,
that deviates from the standard of reason and experiment.
                               [To be continued.]
LVI.    New Outlines      of Chemical Philosophy. By Ez. Walker,
                           Esq. of Lynn, Norfolk.
                           [Continued   from p. 274.]
           On Evaporation, Hail, Rain, Snow,              and Deiv.
It   has been ascertained by observation that the mean annual
 quantity of rain is greatest at the equator, and decreases gra
dually as we approach the poles.            Thus at
    Granada*, Antilles, 12° N. lat. it is 126 inches.
    Cape FranQois *, St. Domingo            ....  193 46'      120 inches.
    Calcutta   f                                  22 23         -81
    RomeJ                                         41    54       39
    England §                                     33 00          32
    Petersburg ||                                 59 16           16
    Hence it appears that the quantity of rain is influenced by
 the heat of the climate.        But as the sun's rays have no heat in
 themselves, what is the reason that they generate heat upon the
 surface of our earth.
    To solve this important question it is necessary to premise,
 that no combustion nor increase of temperature can be produced,
 unless thermogen and photogen be united to ponderable matter.
              * Cottc, Jour, de Phys. Oct. 1791,
                                                   p. 964.
              t Asiatic Researches, 1 and 9 Appendix.
              I Cotte, Jour, de Phys. Oct. 1791, p. 264.
              § Phil. Trans.          || Edin.
                                               Trans, ii. p. 244.
                                                                          No\y

                New Outlines      of Chemical Philosophy.                 351
Now it    is evident from common observation, that the sun's rays
have the power of increasing the temperature of bodies ; hence
it was supposed that the sun was the fountain of heat- But
this hypothesis is now found to be erroneous, for the sun's rays
have no heat in themselves *, but they possess the power of
acting upon the elements of heat and light, thermogen and
photogen, contained in bodies so as to increase their tempera
ture.
   When the thermogen and photogen which lie dormant in
matter upon the earth's surface, are acted upon by the sun's
rays, those elements attract each other, and as they have a strong
attraction for moisture f, a chemical union takes place between
them and the water upon the surface of the earth, and two
new gases are formed.          Photogen and water form hydrogen gas,
which ascends to the upper regions of the atmosphere^far above
the altitude to which any balloon can ascend.             Hence the rea
son that no hydrogen gas has been found in the atmosphere
near the earth's surface.
   The new oxygen gas, formed at the same time by the che
mical union of thermogen and moisture, being much heavier
than the other gas, because it contains more moisture, rises to
a much less altitude.          Hence it follows that all the moisture
which is carried off from the earth's surface is converted into
oxygen and hydrogen gases, consequently the atmosphere con
tains a much larger portion of those gases at one time than at
another, and therefore its weight is variable, as shown by the
barometer.
   When a Leyden jar is highly charged, the two elements which
it contains attract each other, and a spark is produced with a
loud report.      In like manner, when the thermogen in the lower
regions of the atmosphere attracts the photogen from the up
per, the same phaenomena take place, called thunder and light
ning.    The only difference between the operations of nature to
restore the lost equilibrium, and the effects observed in our ex
periments, consists in magnitude          not in principle.
Thunder, Lightning, and other Meteors arising from the Com
              position and Decomposition of the Air,
   When oxygen and hydrogen           gases are mixed together, and a
single   electric   spark introduced, combustion instantly takes
place ; and as the portion of the gases thus mixed together in
the atmosphere may extend over a circle of some miles in dia
meter, the lightning may be the aggregate of the elements of
combustion contained in that space.
       Phil. Mag. vol. xlii. p. 370.     f Phil. Mag. vol. xliii. p. 252.
                                                                       Water

  352             New Outlines     of Chemical Philosophy.
      Water being &14 times heavier than an equal bulk of atmo
  spheric air, it will be easily conceived, that when the oxygen audi
  hydrogen gases, contained within a circle of many miles in dia
  meter, are reduced into water, an immense vacuum must be in-
  stantaneously formed ; and, consequently, the air rushing into it
  must produce a violent concussion, accompanied with a tremen
  dous report.
      Hence the reason that the wind blows towards a thunder
  cloud ; and a fresh portion of oxygen gas being thus mixed with
  the hydrogen gas which remains unconsumed, a second report
  succeeds the first ; and thus thunder will be continued as long as
  any hydrogen gas remains uneonsumed.
      The extent of the influence of the two elements upon each
  other to decompose the air, may be estimated, in some degree,
  by the breadth of the shower : not by its length, for that may
  be influenced by the wind.
      The quicksilver falls in the barometer during a thunder storm,
  because the atmosphere is lighter, part of it having been con
  verted into a heavy shower of rain ; but when the shower is
  over and evaporation recommencing, the water being again con
  verted into air, the atmosphere becomes heavier and the quick
  silver rises.   When the chemical union between water and the
  two elements of combustion is dissolved, those elements descend
  to the earth with the falling rain ; hence the reason that the aip
-
  becomes colder after a shower ; and the reason that we have no
  thunder in a rainy season is this ; the elements of combustion
  are conducted back again to the earth, as. fast as they ascend
  into the atmosphere.
      If the mean annual quantity of water which rises by evapora
  tion be equal to the mean annual quantity of rain, there must
  be ten feet sis inches of water converted into atmospheric air
  annually, in the lat. of 12° N. and therefore it might be sup
  posed that the barometer would rise higher and its range be
  greater at the equator than in higher latitudes : but it is now
  known from experience, that the range of the barometer is least
  at the equator and increases as we approach the poles.               This
  seeming contradiction, however,        will  vanish  after the  following
  extracts have been duly considered.
      " The mean height of the barometer at the level of the sea,
  all over the globe, is 30 inches, the weight of the atmosphere,
   therefore, is the same all over the globe.          The weight of the
   atmosphere depends     on  its density  and  height  : where the den
   sity of  the atmosphere   is  greatest, its height  must   be the least j
   and on the contrary, where its density is least, its height must
   be the greatest.    The height of the atmosphere, therefore, must
   be greatest at the equator and least at the poles ; and it must
                                                                   decrease

               New Outlines of Chemical Philosophy.               353
 decrease gradually between the equator and the poles, so that
 its surface will resemble two inclined planes meeting above the
 equator, their highest part.
     " A current of air is constantly ascending at the equator, and
 part of it at least reaches and continues in the higher parts of
 the atmosphere.     From the fluidity, of air, it is evident that it
 cannot accumulate above the equator, but must roll down the
 inclined plane, which the upper surface of the atmosphere as
 sumes, towards the pole.
    "  As the heat in the torrid zone never differs much, the den
 sity, and consequently the height of the atmosphere will not
 vary much.      Hence the range of the barometer within the tro
pics   is comparatively small ; and it increases gradually as we
 approach the poles, because the difference of the temperature,
 and consequently of the density of the atmosphere, increases with
 the latitude." — Thomson's Chemistry, vol. iv. p. 46.
    It is abundantly confirmed by experience, that when the che
 mical union between those elements and moisture is dissolved, a
portion of the air is reduced into its component parts, thermo-
gen, photogen, and water, which return again to the earth,
either in flashes of lightning, or in showers of rain, hail, or
snow.
    Metallic rods reaching above the tops of buildings are known
to conduct electricity from the air to the earth ; and indeed, almost
every elevated object is a conductor when the air is highly
charged with those elements ; whence we may infer, that in a
thunder-storm, a person is much safer in a town, than upon aij
open plain.     I am the more inclined to believe the truth of this
remark from some phaenomena which came under my own ob
servation.
    I was, some years ago, riding along the sea-shore in a very
dark night, when it lightneel very much at sea, with distant
thunder.     A very heavy shower came on where I was, which
produced illuminations far more brilliant than can be well de
scribed.                   -
    The small end of my whip, and the tips of the ears of my
horse, were ornamented with small lamps or globes of fire :
every other little projecting point about his head was orna
mented in the same manner ; and his mane was almost one
entire blaze of light,    I attempted several times to extinguish
these lights by striking them with my whip, but without pro
ducing any permanent effect ; for no sooner was the water struck
off from the parts which were illuminated, than these lights
were regenerated by the succeeding drops of rain.         These illu
minations continued as long as the shower lasted, which might
be about a quarter of an hour.
    Vol. 44. No. 199. Nov. 1814.               Z                 This

$54            New Outlines of Chemical Philosophy.
    This shower came from the sea ; it was about low water, and
1  was riding near the water's edge, consequently there were no
high objects to attract this element of combustion before it
reached me.
    It will be easily understood how these lights- were produced
from the well known properties of electricity.        The drops of
rain, being highly charged with one of the elements of com
bustion, falling upon objects connected with the earth, the other
element was attracted through those objects, and uniting upon
the most elevated points, a slow combustion took place, pro
ducing the illuminations above described.
    Heat always increases the attraction between the two elements
of combustion ; but a contrary temperature produces a contrary
effect.
    In the north polar regions, where the sun never shines during
some months, the attraction between the thermogen of the air
and the photogen in the earth being suspended, no heat is ge
nerated ; hence the most intense cold prevails, till the rays of
the sun revisit those latitudes.
    And in our winter, the cold air from the north carries off the -
heat from the surface of the earth, and as the sun's rays seldom
reach us at that season of the year, the weather becomes ex-         •
tremely cold, for the reasons mentioned above.
    But when the wind blows from the torrid zone, being of a
higher temperature than that from the north, attraction takes
place between the thermogen, which it contains, and the pho
togen of the earth, the temperature of the air is soon increased ;
and if the earth be covered with snow, it is either reduced into
water, or converted into atmospheric air.        And vegetation un
der the snow is always found in a forward state, for the ther
mogen and photogen having attracted each other through the
snow, the temperature of the earth is increased above freezing,
although the snow still remains at that point.
    This hypothesis will receive some support from the following
extract taken from my journal.
    "  March 17, 1814. The snow which began to fall about the
6th    instant  has been wasting away for some days, mostly by
evaporation.      I have observed for the last two or three days,
little holes in the snow in the garden, round the plants and
sticks which appear above it. These holes are wide at the top
and narrow at the bottom, reaching to the ground.          Query —
May     not these  sticks and  plants conduct  the photogen of the
earth into the atmosphere, by which means so much heat is ge
nerated as to convert the snow into atmospheric air; or, to speak
in more familiar terms, to cause evaporation ?
    " To solve this auery by experiment, 1 took three rods ; one
                                                                 of

        Further Experiments and Observations            on Iodine.       355
of wood, another of metal, and a third of glass. These were
stuck through the snow in the garden into the ground, at pro
per distances from each other.     Two days afterwards, I ex
amined these rods, and found holes in the snow round the two
first similar to those mentioned above ; but there was not the
least alteration in the snow round the glass rod, glass being a
nonconductor of those elements."
   But if this experiment be not sufficient to solve the above
query, there are other well known phaenomena, from which the
same conclusion may be drawn.
  Lynn, Nov.      9, 1814.                                Ez. WALKER.
                             [To   be continued.]
LVII.      Further Experiments and Observations on Iodine.               By
               Sir H. Davy, LL.D. F.R.S. F.P.R.I.*
 1.    On   the   triple Compounds containing       Iodine and Oxygen.
 1.   In this communication I shall have the honour of presenting
to the Royal Society a continuation of the inquiries I have made
respecting the chemical agencies of iodine, and the properties of
certain of its compounds.
    2. I described in my last paper the action of iodine on fixed >
alkaline lixivia, and the deflagrating salts it forms.      In the first
experiment which I made on these compounds, I employed the
first crystals which fall down from moderately strong solutions
of potassa and soda saturated with iodine, which had been puri
fied by being repeatedly acted upon- by distilled water: I now
find that this process is not sufficient to free the triple compound
from the double compound ; and that to obtain them in a state
of absolute purity, it is necessary to boil them repeatedly in small
quantities of alcohol of specific gravity of from 8-6 to 9-2, which
dissolves the double compound, but has little power of action on
the triple compound.
    The triple compounds, when purified, present some curious
chemical phaenomena,       which a minute quantity of the double
compound adhering to the crystals that I operated upon, pre
vented me from observing in the experiments I have already
communicated to the Society.          I shall describe these phaeno
mena as they are produced by the triple compound of potassium,
 as this substance is most easily procured in considerable quan
tities, but as far as I have been able to observe, the phaenomena
presented by the compound of sodium are precisely analogous.
            * From the
                       Philosophical Transactions for 1814, part   ii.
                                     Z   2                               The

356      Further Experiments and Olservalions on Iodine.
     The triple compound of potassium purified by alcohol is al
most tasteless, has no action on vegetable colours, is very little
soluble in eold water, but more soluble in hot water ; when it
is thrown into concentrated nitric, or sulphuric, or phosphoric
acids, it has no violent action on them.           By heat it may be dis
solved in them,     and   the  solutions,  when    saturated, congeal and
form crystalline substances intensely acid.           When the substance
formed by the triple compound and the nitric acid is strongly
 heated, the nitric acid flies off, and at the temperature at which
 it is entirely expelled, the substance itself begins to decompose
 and affords a little iodine and much oxygen.
     If the solution of the triple compounds in sulphuric or phos
 phoric acids be heated strongly at the temperature at which the
 acids sublime, the triple compound itself is decomposed, and it
 affords oxygen and iodine, and leaves acid sulphate and phos
 phate of potassa.       If when the mixture is rendered fluid by heat,
 a little sugar or other combustible matter is added, there is a
 violent action, and iodine is disengaged with great rapidity.
     The triple compound dissolves without decomposition in so
 lution of phosphorous acid ; but on heating the solution, oxygen
 is attracted by    it, iodine appears, and phosphate of potassa                 is
 formed.
     When the triple compound             thrown into concentrated mu
                                         is
 riatic acid, there       isan effervescence,     the smell of chlorine          is
 perceived,    the fluid  becomes    yellow,   and  when evaporated yields
 the chlorionic acid.
     When the solution of the hydroionic acid in water                poured
                                                                        is
 upon the triple salt, iodine       isinstantly produced in great quan
 tities.
     Acetic and oxalic acids dissolve the triple compound without
 decomposing it. On heating the solution in oxalic acid, the
 acid becomes brown from the deposition of charcoal, and iodine
 immediately appears.
     When the triple compound             is thrown into solution of sul
  phurous acid, iodine          instantly produced, and sulphuric acid
                               i3
 formed, and   if  the sulphurous acid          not in too large a propor
  tion, the solution becomes yellow            by is
                                                 dissolving        by
                                                                  iodine     ;   if
  more sulphurous acid         isadded,   water      decomposed, and sul
                                                       is
 phuric acid,    and  hydroionic acid formed.
     The double compound of potassium and iodine has no action
  on oxalic, acetic, sulphurous, or phosphorous acids, but when                  it
     mixed with the triple compound             it   instantly decomposed
by is
                                                       is
      them, and iodine set free.
     The same double compound in its pure state                 decomposed
                                                                  is
  very slowly by muriatic acid       ;  and to convert the greater por
  tion into muriate of potassa (potassane)               necessary that the
                                                        it   is
                                                                         acid

         Further Experiments and Observations       on Iodine.    357
acid should be very frequently distilled from   it,  and    part
                                                            a         al
ways remains unaltered  ;   when mixtures of the triple and double
compounds are exposed to the action of muriatic acid, potas-
sane (muriate of potassa)   is  instantly formed;   and     the pro
                                                           if
per proportions are adopted, none of the double or triple com
pounds remain, and the results are potassane only and the oxy-
chloric acid.
    Mixtures of the triple and double compounds produce abun
dance of iodine when acted on        byglacial hydrophosphoric acid
gas ;  but the pure double compound affords 0:ily hydroionic acid
gas, and this decomposition offers the best method which has
yet occurred to me of procuring pure hydroionic acid.          When
the two substances are gently heated together, the hydroionic
acid gas, which comes over in considerable quantities, forms a
colourless solution when absorbed     by water.
 I    have endeavoured to ascertain the composition of the triple
 compound of potassium.        Seven grains that had been dried
at the temperature of boiling water heated to redness in a small
crucible of platinum lost 2-2 grains.        Seven grains heated to
dull redness in   a  small tube of glass lost 1-7 grain; a minute
portion of iodine condensed in the middle part of the tube, but
no violet vapour was observed in the upper part of          and there
                                                           it,
 was a   very slight appearance only of moisture, so that the loss
 of weight in this last experiment must be principally ascribed
 to the expulsion of oxygen.
     On a comparison of the results of these two analyses,       it
                                                                  ap
pears very probable that this triple compound         is composed of
 one proportion of iodine about 165, one of potassium 75, and
 six of oxygen 90 which
                  ;         is a composition exactly analogous to
that of the hyper-oxymuriate of potassa. The quantities that           I
 used in my experiments were too small to render these results
 more than approximations, yet the similarity of them to those
 presented   by   the hyper-oxymuriates ought perhaps to tender
 them more worthy of confidence.
 I     have attempted to obtain pure triple compounds from solu
 tions of baryta and lime, and from magnesia diffused through
 water, by dissolving iodine in them       by
                                            heat, and  by evaporating
 the clear liquor untilit  began to deposit crystals.     In this way
I   have procured substances which, when well washed- in distilled
 water, afforded no iodine to nitric acid, which yielded chlorine
 and chlorionic acid when acted upon       by
                                            muriatic acid, and which
 when distilled afforded much oxygen and some iodine, and left
 substances which appeared to be mixtures of the earths with
 compounds that afforded iodine to sulphuric acid, producing               a
 smell of sulphurous acid gas, and which probably consisted of the
 metals of the earths united to iodine.
                                 Z3                                   The

358      Further Experiments and Observations      on Iodine.
   The triple compounds from lime and magnesia were soluble
without affording iodine in sulphuric acid ; but on evaporating-   „
the acid, at the time that the vessel of platinum in which the
experiment was made became dry and almost red hot, the violet
vapour was perceived.       Even the triple compound from baryta
did not afford iodine or oxygen by treatment with sulphuric acid,
except under the same circumstances.
   3. When I first discovered that the triple compounds dissolved
in acids without effervescence,    I thought it probable that the
effect depended upon the formation of a compound of oxygen
and iodine, similar to euchlorine, or the oxy-chloric acid, and
which remained dissolved in the fluid; and on this idea I made
a number of experiments with the hope of obtaining such a com
bination in a detached form.
   i distilled the solution of the triple compound of potassium in
sulphuric acid, but the only gaseous product I obtained was oxy
gen.    Sulphuric acid and iodine condensed in the cool part of
the apparatus, and the residuum was acid sulphate of potassa.
   Conceiving that a compound of oxygen and iodine might ne
vertheless exist in the fluid, and be decomposable at a high tem
perature, I attempted to obtain it by acting on the triple com
pound of barium by sulphuric acid, and by evaporating the fluid
obtained at a gentle heat, and suffering it to cool at different
periods of the process ; but in this manner of operating I gained
no better results.
   The triple compound of barium is scarcely soluble in water.
Wa'er that had been boiled upon it gave only a slight cloudiness
to sulphuric acid, which possibly might be owing to some double
compound mixed with it : the fluid when evaporated nearly to
dryness afforded fumes which had the characters of those of sul
phuric acid, and by a red heat yielded iodine, and left sulphate
of baryta.
    When the solid triple compound of baryta was heated in very
small quantities of diluted sulphuric acid, the fluid separated ex
hibited acid properties, and when gradually evaporated left a
substance which congealed by cooling, and formed a solid of 9
veilow colour deliquescent in the air, strongly acid, and which
reddened vegetable blues, and did not afterwards destroy them.
When strongly heated, the substance afforded the same results
as the substance procured from the fluid just mentioned.
    The residual solid matter obtained by the action of sulphuric
acid on the triple compound of barium was treated a second
time with sulphuric acid, yet notwithstanding,      when heated to
redness, it yielded iodine in abundance.
    I have repeated these experiments very often, because M.-Guy
 Lussac has stated that an acid compound of oxygen and iodine
                                                               may

             Further Experiments and Observations                 on Iodine.     359
 may be procured by dropping sulphuric acid into a solution of
 the triple compound of barium ; but the conclusions of this in
 genious chemist seem to have been founded upon the want of
 effervescence   in the process ; and his experiments were made
at a very early period of the investigation, and probably before
this time he has found reason to alter his opinion.
    It is probable that a binary compound of iodine and oxygen
may be formed, but the facts presented by the action of acids
on the triple compounds are not sufficient to prove its existence.
    When small quantities of very diluted sulphuric acid are di
gested on the triple compounds of potassium and barium, the
fluid obtained is always acid, and always precipitates muriate of
baryta.     I thought it possible that the compound of iodine and
oxygen might possess this property ; but on collecting the pre
                                   it,
cipitate and examining             appeared to be
                                   it               mixture of the
                                                              a
triple compound and sulphate of baryta, and from all the facts
it  appears that in the action of acids on the triple compounds
new combinations only are formed *.
 I    take the liberty of proposing for the triple compounds the
names of oxy-iodes, because, when decomposed            heat, they   by
afford oxygen and iodine.        Individually they may be named
from their bases.     Thus oxy-potassame, or oxy-iode of potas
sium, will signify the triple compound of potassium, oxygen, and
iodine, and oxy-barame, or oxy-iode of barium, will denote th«
triple compound of barium.
    2.   Some Observations on Hydroionic Acid, and on the Com
                   pounds procured   means   byit.       of
     .
     1  have generally procured the hydroionic acid which
         I                                                  have            I
used in my experiments by the process referred to in the last
section, the action of hydrophosphoric acid on potassame, but
I have sometimes employed the gas procured from moistened
iodine       by
          phosphorus.
   The hydroionic acid gas rapidly decomposed by being heated
                                   is
in contact with oxygen, and    solution of iodine and hydroionic
                                        a
  * When                       made to dissolve as much of the triple com
           sulphuric acid     is
pound of potassium       by
                        heat  as possible, the mixture conceals by cooling
into a yellow transparent substance, extremely deliquescent, and very acid.
On decomposing     itby heat, neutral sulphate of potassa remains.  Now as
oxygen and iodine arc the only substances driven oft-         by
                                                             heat,  may beit
asserted that the acid property of the mixture depends upon these two
principles; yet this conclusion does not follow according to sound che
mical logic iodine alone destroys the alkaline properties of potassa, and
              :
oxygen and iodine   in combination with potassium form difficultly soluble
                                                              a
and almost tasteless substance.    This substance, the triple compound, has
only    weak attraction for sulphuric acid, and
         a                                        might be expected that in
                                                    it
combining with     sulphuric acid   it   would not deprive   it   of its acid proper--
ties.
                                    Z    4                                       ga«

360        Further Experiments and Observations        on Iodine.
 gas in water is formed, and it is slowly decomposed by heat alone,
 affording a deep red-brown easily fusible substance, which seems
 to be a compound of hydroioisic gas and iodine.
      When condensed in water, it is instantly decomposed by so
 lution of nitric acid and iodine precipitated.
      The solution of hydroionic acid rapidly absorbs oxygen from
  the air, and becomes yellow, and at last deep tawny orange ;
  and this absorption is assisted by light and heat, the hydrogen
 is attracted by the oxygen to form water, and the iodine formed
  is dissolved in the remaining acid.
      The concentrated hydroionic acid will probably form a good
  eudiometrical substance ; it does not render the vessels in which
  it is used cloudy like the hydrosulphurets by the deposition of
  solid matter, and it does not enlarge the volume of the residual
   air like some other substances.
      The solution of the hydroionic acid is decomposed by being
  heated with the hyperoxymuriate of potassa, and iodine is pro
   duced.
       Hydroionic acid gas, as I have mentioned in my last paper,
  is decomposed by all the metals I have exposed it to, except
  gold and platinum ; and the same metals that decompose it in
   its gaseous state, likewise decompose it when it is in solution,
  requiring, however, in some cases, the assistance of heat.         The
  fluid hydroionic acid tarnishes silver at common temperatures,
  and dissolves mercury slowly when boiled in contact with it.
       2. It dissolves the alkaline and common earths, and forms
  with them compounds very analogous in their properties to the
   compounds they produce when acted on by muriatic acid.
      I heated dry quick-lime in a small tube filled with hydroionic
   acid gas, a yellow fluid immediately formed, which was coloured
  by dissolving hydroionic gas and iodine, and a fusible compound
   soluble in water, and which had a bitter taste similar to muriate
   of lime, was produced.
       I made the same compound by dissolving marble in the hy
   droionic acid ; the compound when heated to redness became
   fluid, and when kept in fusion in contact with air emitted iodine,
   gradually ioit it fusibility, and from being neutral became alka
   line, so that at a high temperature iodine is partly expelled
   from calcium by oxygen.        I proved this still more distinctly by
   fusing the compound in a close vessel, in which it was confmed
   by mercury.      There was no change.      I admitted a little oxy-
   potassame, and caused it to give off oxygen by heating it : as
   soon as the calcareous compound was fused in contact with oxy
    gen, it instantly emitted iodine, and lime was formed on the sur-
.  .face.
       The compound formed from hydroionic acid and baryta          is an
                                                                    acrid

          Further Experiments andOlservatigns on Iodine.         361
acrid bitter substance, very similar in its taste to larytane,
(fused muriate of baryta,) not decomposable when heated to
whiteness unless oxygen is present, but when it is heated in con
tact with oxygen, oxygen is absorbed, and a part of its iodine
expelled.
    Magnesia dissolved in hydroionic acid without effervescence,
and the solution evaporated gave a solid substance, having a
taste very similar to muriate of magnesia.          Like that salt, it
partly   lost its acid by a red  heat ; but  a  portion remained not
decomposable out of the .contact of air, but which instantly af
forded iodine when heated in contact with oxygen.
    I dissolved glucina, ittria, and zircona in the hydroionic acid ;
they formed neutral saline compounds.          The compound of hy
droionic acid and glucina was less soluble and more astringent
in taste than the muriate of glucina, and was entirely decom
posed when heated in the open air, affording hydroionic acid
and iodine.
   The compound formed from ittria was more soluble, and
highly astringent ; that formed from zircona astringent, with
more of bitterness.       Both these salts were decomposed when
heated in the atmosphere, at a low red heat ; a smell of hydro
ionic gas was perceived, iodine was produced, and the earth*
remained.
   3. I mentioned, in a note dated Montpellier, Jan. 10, (con
taining a correction for my last communication to the Society,)
that the alkaline property which I at first supposed to belong to
the compounds of potassium and sodium with iodine, depended
upon some undecomposed subcarbonate of potassa mixed with
the hydrate of potassa I employed, as the subcarbonate of po
tassa is decomposed by iodine and carbonic acid set free, I had
not thought it probable that the subcarbonate of potassa could
interfere with this result.     But I find that if the subcarbonate
exist at all in the lixivium, a portion of it always remains unde
composed.       I find likewise, that when a solution of iodine in
lixivium of potassa is rendered perfectly neutral, or even slightly
acid by hydroionic acid, a strong red heat renders the solid sub
stance obtained slightly alkaline, provided it be in contact with
air.   Whether the separation of iodine by oxygen, in this in
stance, depends upon some effect of the moisture contained in
the atmosphere, or upon the continued action of fresh portions
of oxygen on the same surface of the compound, it is not easy
to say ; but a similar effect I find is produced upon potassile,
(fiuate of potassa ;) this substance gains the power of reddening
paper tinged with turmeric, by being strongly heated in contact
with the air.
    The power of neutralizing acids does not belong to the true
                                                           compound

362       Further Experiments and Observations        on Iodine.
compound of iodine and potassium, but depends either upon th*
subcarbonate not decomposed, or upon the alkali formed during
the ignition of the compound ; the pure double compound seems
to have no pewer of action on the acids it does not decompose j
I fused it in contact with sulphurous acid gas confined by mercury
in a glass tube, the salt gained a slight tint of yellow, but did
not absorb its own volume of gas : after this, it slightly reddened
litmus, so that the acid must have had little more than a me
chanical adhesion to the salt.
    When potassame, or iode of potassium, is fused with boracio
acid, there is a perfect mixture of the two bodies.          In my first
researches    on   this mixture,  I conceived that  they   entered into
chemical union, and formed a violet-coloured glass,            and that
the acid property of the boracic acid was neutralized by the new
 compound ; but I since find that the violet colour of the glass is
 owing to the development of iodine, and when the application of
 heat is long continued, much iodine is disengaged, and the co
 lour of the glass changes to olive, and borate of potassa is
 formed.     When the glass is dissolved in warm water, an olive-
 coloured power separates, soluble when boiled in the caustic aU
 kalies, so that there is great reason to suppose that it is boron,
 and that the boracic acid is decomposed by the attraction of the
potassium combined with the iodine for oxygen, assisted by the
 tendency of iodine to assume the elastic state.
     I fused the neutral compound of iodine with silica; no change
 was effected when the experiment was made in close vessels, but
 when the mixture was exposed to air, and intensely heated, a lit
 tle iodine was evolved, some potassa formed, and some silica dis
 solved by   it.
                 S. On other acid Compounds     of Iodine.
     1. I have made several experiments on the combination of
 iodine and chlorine, obtained by admitting chlorine in excess to
 known quantities of iodine in vessels exhausted of air, and re
 peatedly heating the sublimate.
    Operating in this way, I find that iodine absorbs less than
 one-third of its weight of chlorine.
    The compound of iodine and chlorine is a very volatile sub
 stance, and in consequence of its action upon mercury, I have
not been able to determine the elastic force of its vapour.
 Hence the estimations of its composition from experiments on
 the quantity of chlorine absorbed in close vessels must neces
 sarily be liable to error.     Jn  one experiment, in which I dis
solved the sublimate, by admitting a small quantity of water into
 the retort, I found that eight grains of iodine had caused the
disappearance of five and a quarter cubical inches of chlorine.
                                                                      Ia

         Further Experiments and Observations      on   Iodine.       363
  In another experiment,    in which the sublimate was not dis
solved by water,  and  in which  the absorption was judged of by
the admission of fresh quantities of the gas, twenty grains caused
the disappearance of 9' 6 cubical inches of chlorine, the baro
meter being at 30-1, and the thermometer at 57a Fahrenheit.
   It seems probable, from these experiments, that the chlorionic.
acid consists of one proportion of iodine and one of chlorine.
   The chlorionic acid formed by the sublimation of iodine in
chlorine in great excess is of a bright yellow colour, when fused
it becomes of a deep orange, and when rendered elastic it forms
a deep   orange-coloured gas.      It is capable of combining with
much iodine when they are heated together, its colour become*
in consequence deeper, and the chlorionic acid and the iodine
•rise together in the elastic state.
    The solution of the chlorionic acid in water likewise dissolve!
large quantities of iodine, so that it is possible to obtain a fluid
containing very different proportions of iodine and chlorine.
     The pure solution of the chlorionic acid, when it is very di
luted, loses its colour by being agitated for some time in con
tact with chlorine, and then, when poured into fixed alkalina
lixivia or solutions of the alkaline earths, it causes the precipi
tation of substances having the characters of triple compounds
or the oxyiodes.     If it is coloured, or in its ordinary state, at
the same time that the oxyiode is precipitated, much iodin*
appears, and it is impossible to render a concentrated solution
colourless by agitation with chlorine, or to deprive it of its
power of yielding iodine by acting on alkaline solutions.         The
chlorionic acid, when poured into a solution of muriate of baryta,
causes a copious precipitate in     it,  which has all the characters
of oxyiode of barium, and the liquor becomes very acid.
     When the colourless solution of chlorionic acid      added to
                                                         is                a
strong    solution  of ammonia,      a white  powder    is
                                                         precipitated
which detonates feebly     by
                           a     gentle heat and which, when de
                                          ;
composed in glass vessels, affords iodine and elastic matter which
does not support combustion.
     When highly coloured chlorionic acid     is employed, the pow
der that falls down   is   black, and detonates with much greater
force, and       the slightest touch or motion, and
                by                                       itappears to
be the same substance as that procured directly            the action
                                                             by
of iodine on ammonia, and which      I     have shown to be      com
                                                                  a
pound of azote and iodine. Whether the white powder                   is   a
similar substance containing a larger proportion of azote, or
whether    it   is
                a  compound of ammonia with oxygen and iodine,
or with iodine and chlorine,    I    have not yet been able to deter
mine.
                                                                           It

364       Further Experiments and Observations       on  Iodine.
    It is soluble in excess of chlorionic acid, and in this way may
be separated from the black powder ; it affords a little moisture
during its detonation, but it is not possible to say whether this
is formed in the process, or whether it is water adhering to the
compound, for the temperature of its decomposition is so low,
that a proper degree of heat cannot be applied to render it dry.
    When two bodies so similar in their characters and in the
compounds they form, as iodine and chlorine, act upon sub
stances at the same time, it is difficult to form a judgement of
the different parts that they play in the new chemical arrange
ments produced.       When I found that the chlorionic compound
formed a strong acid by solution in water, I at first suspected
that water was decomposed and hydroionic acid and euchlorine
formed ; there was no effervescence in the process, and the pro
portions agree the supposition ; but I fmd that solution of
euchlorine instantly decomposes hydroionic acid and precipitates
iodine, which is afterwards redissolved by the chlorine set free ;
 and nitric acid, which decomposes hydroionic acid, has no ac
 tion on chlorionic acid.
    It was possible likewise that if water was decomposed, mu
riatic acid and a compound of iodine and oxygen might exist in
 the solution ; I endeavoured to ascertain if this was the case by
distilling the solution at different temperatures and collecting
 the products, but I obtained always the same fluid.
    When coloured solution of chlorionic acid is boiled with hyper -
oxymuriate of potassa, it loses its colour, and chlorine is given
 off from it ; but in this case it likewise gradually loses its acidity,
and a substance which yields iodine by heat with much efferve
scence, and which is probably oxypotassame, is precipitated.
    It appears to me most probable that the acid property of the
ehlorionic compound depends upon the combination of the two
bodies ; and its action upon solutions of the alkalies and the
 earths may be easily explained, when it is considered that chlo
rine has a greater tendency than iodine to form double com
pounds with the metals, and that iodine has a greater tendency
than chlorine to form triple compounds with oxygen and the
 metals.
    When in the case of the action of the chlorionic compound
on fixed alkaline lixivia the chlorine is not in great excess, much
iodine is always set free, because as it is easy to perceive from
the proportions in which they combine, there is not sufficient
oxygen detached from the alkali by chlorine to form the triple
 compound ; and if the estimation of the composition of oxy
potassame given in the first section be accurate, supposing that
none of the double compound of iodine is formed, a solution
                                                                   must

        Further Experiments and Olservations on Iodine,          S63
must contain five proportions of chlorine to one of iodine, to
produce a triple compound without the precipitation of iodine.
It is however most probable that some double compound of
iodine is always formed, as a solution must be extremely diluted
indeed to contain five proportions of chlorine to one of iodine.
   When the solution of chlorionic acid is poured into solution
of muriate of baryta, water must be decomposed to furnish hy
drogen to the muriatic acid, and oxygen to the triple compound,
and in this case some double compound of iodine and barium
must be formed and remain dissolved in the solution.
    From the action of chlorionic acid on metallic solutions, I am
inclined to believe that triple compounds of the common metals,
oxygen and iodine may be formed by means of it.          It occasions
a copious precipitate without effervescence in the solution of
sulphate of iron, and in the solution of nitro-muriate of lead,
and tin, and of nitrate of copper, and from analogy it is pro
bable that these precipitates consist of the metal, oxygen, and
iodine.
    2. I thought it probable from the rapid action of tin on iodine,
that tin-foil would burn in the vapour of iodine, but on intro
ducing it into the violet-coloured gas in a small retort made very
hot, though the combination was instantaneous, yet no light was
apparent.
    I thought it possible that the acid properties of the com
pound of tin and iodine, which I have described in my last com
munication to the Society, might depend upon the decomposi
tion of water and upon the formation of hydroionic acid.           On
this idea I distilled the solution of it in water, hoping if hydro-
ionic acid were formed, that I should obtain some in this pro
cess ; but the fluid that came over was merely water coloured
by a minute quantity of iodine, and the orange-coloured sub
stance which remained when dissolved in water, exhibited the
same acid properties as before, and combined with ammonia
without affording any oxide.
    The compound of iodine and iron when dissolved in water
exhibited acid properties, but when the solution was distilled it
yielded hydroionic acid and deposited oxide of iron, and the en
tire solution acted on by ammonia, afforded an olive-coloured
precipitate in great abundance.
       4. On the miction  of some  compound Gases on Iodine.
    1.  I heated  some  iodine in a dry glass globe filled with sul
phuretted hydrogen ; there was a considerable absorption of gas,
no sulphur was deposited, and a reddish-brown fluid was formed,
 which when thrown into water rendered it strongly acid and
                                                            deposited

366       Further Experiments and Observations      on Iodine.
deposited much sulphur ; the water passed through a filter ex
hibited the properties of hydroionic acid.
    It is evident from this experiment, that sulphur, iodine, and
hydrogen, are capable of forming a triple compound.
    2. I sublimed some iodine in dry defiant gas ; a little of a
reddish-brown fluid was formed, but the greatest part of the
iodine crystallized on the sides of the vessel in which the ex
periment was made.         By repeating the process several times,
more of the fluid was formed.        It was volatile at a moderate-
heat, and gave a yellow tint to water, but did not render it acid,
there was a very slight absorption of the gas.
    3. Iodine sublimed in nitrous gas effected no change in it.
    4. When iodine was exposed to carbonic oxide it underwent
no change, it was repeatedly sublimed in it in common day-light
without undergoing the slightest alteration.
    When the violet gas was formed by heating iodine in carbonic
oxide, and the vessel exposed for some time to the direct solar
rays, a small quantity of a limpid fluid which had an acrid taste
formed in the vessel.      An accident prevented me from ascer
taining    if any gas had been absorbed, but it seems probable from
this result that, like chlorine, iodine may be combined with car
bonic oxide by the agency of light.
  5. On     the Mode of detecting Iodine in Combinations, and on
          certain Properties of its Compound with Sodium.
    1 . I have examined    many of the marine productions of the
Mediterranean, with the view of determining whether they con
tained iodine.      The ashes of the fuci and ulvee of this sea afford
it in much smaller quantities than the sel de varec, and in a
very few cases only have I been able to obtain evidences of its
existence in them.
    2. M. Berard was so good as to order a considerable quan
tity of the species of ulva, which abounds on the coast of Lan-
guedoc, to be burnt for me at his laboratory at Montpellier.
The ashes consisted for the most part of common salt, but a
small quantity of alkaline lixivium which was obtained from
them, afforded a red fluid when acted upon by sulphuric acid,
and a similar colour I found was produced, when a solution of
subcarbonate of soda and common salt, containing a minute
quantity of the compound of sodium and iodine, was treated in
the same manner by the acid.
    3. One of the best tests of the presence of a very minute
quantity of iodine in compounds, is their action upon silver.
Water when it contains less than ToW Part of its weight of the
double or triple alkaline compounds of iodine tarnishes polished
silver.                                                           The

         further Experiments and Qlservations on Iodine.          367
    The    effect   produced by compounds of iodine, may be di
stinguished from that produced by sulphurets or sulphuretted
hydrogen by this circumstance, that solutions containing sul
phurets or sulphuretted hydrogen, by being boiled with a little
muriatic acid, no longer tarnish the metal, whereas solutionis
containing iodine still retain the power.
    4. Amongst a number of sea weeds that were obligingly given
me for examination, by Professor Viviani, of Genoa, the ashes
of the following afforded slight indications of the presence of
iodine,
          Fucus cartilagineus.           Fucus filamentosus.
                    membranaceus.         Ulva pavonia.
                  - rubens.                     linza.
     In the ashes of the corallines and sponges, 1 could discover no
evidences of the presence of the substance.
    5. I have examined three specimens of alkali formed by the
combustion of vegetables that grow on the sea shore, one from
Sicily, one from Spain, and the third from the Roman states,
but not one of them afforded any indications of the; presence of
iodine.
    6. I evaporated a considerable quantity of sea water procured
at Sestri of Levanto in Liguria, in a part of the bay remote from
any source of fresh water ; but I could gain no unequivocal evi
dences of the presence of the compounds of iodine in it.           The
residual liquor after the      common  salt had   been separated, did
not act upon silver nor colour sulphuric acid.       The first crystals
of salt which fell down when fused upon silver, appeared to me
to tarnish it more than the last ; from which it appeared pro
bable that they may have contained some triple compound
of iodine, yet after being ignited, they did not colour sulphuric
acid.     When a large quantity of this water was electrized by
a Voltaic apparatus, and the products separated at the posi
tive pole collected in a small cup of gold, which was covered
with cement, except in the interior and lower part forming the
 circuit, a yellow solution was obtained, which when it was ex
posed to the negative pole of a Voltaic apparatus, yielded a
black powder fixed in the fire, and not unlike the compound
 formed by heating gold and iodine together ; but the quantity
 was too minute to admit of analysis, and a dark-coloured sub
 stance is likewise obtained by negatively electrifying oxymuriate
 of gold, and there can be no doubt but that this substance
 formed a principal part of the solution*.
    * Iodine, like chlorine, find combines both with pAd and platinum,
                             I
 when heated with them, or when they are exposed to them in its nascent
 state.
                                                                      If

                                On Gas     Light.
       If iodine exists in sea water, which there is every reason to
   believe must be the case, though in extremely minute quantities,
   it is probably in triple union with oxygen and sodium, and
   in this case it must separate with the first crystals of common
   salt.
      Whether the superiority which the curers of fish and meat are
  in the habit of attributing to bay-salt over rock-salt, is at all
   connected with the presence of the compounds of iodine, is an
  inquiry perhaps worth making, and the results of Dr. Henry's
  elaborate investigation of the composition of different kinds of
  salts, do not preclude the possibility of the circumstance, though
  they certainly diminish the probability.
      I rubbed pieces of beef that had been. killed some days, with
  the double and triple compounds of sodium.                  They did not
  putrify ; the one rubbed with the double compound became very
  tender and soft, and of a red-brown colour ; that exposed to the
  triple compound hardened considerably, and became of a paler
  colour.
      The triple compound, as I have mentioned before, has very
 little taste, and neither of the compounds seems to have any
 pernicious quality when received into the stomach.                    I fed a
 goldfinch with bread soaked in water, holding in solution the
 double compound for two days, and he drank water holding in
 solution the triple compound for three days, without apparently
 suffering any inconvenience.
     Florence, March 23, 1814.
 LVIII.     On Gas   Light, as far as it regards the Products obtain
     able from Pit-coal ly this veur Method of Illumination,
     and its ceconomical Application.           By Americo Cabral dr
     Meulo.
 JL he remarkable encouragement which has been afforded for
some years past, both by the legislature* and the public, to the
scheme of substituting the inflammable gas obtained during the
 distillation of pit-coal, instead of tallow and oil to illuminate
houses, streets, and manufactories ; and the whole parish of
Shoreditch, Westminster-hall, the avenues to the House of Lords,
and the House of Commons, together with several streets in West
minster, being now regularly illuminated with gas light, have
induced various enterprising individuals to render their assistance
    * An act has been
                       pa9sed by the legislature to incorporate a company
by royal charter, under the name of The Gas Light and Coak Company,
te apply the gas light Uiumiiiatiou to the lighting of the metropolis!

                             On Oas Light.
 in aiding this scheme, in procuring and distributing light, and to
 apply  it to the purposes of domestic ceconomy on         a large scale,
for lighting houses, streets, and factories.
    The following remarks on the products of pit-coal,           as far as
they   relate to this new  mode   of procuring  and  distributing light,
it is therefore presumed, may be interesting to the public. The
statement is copied literally from the printed evidence* given
by Mr. Accum, on the 10th of May 1810, in the House of Lords,
 when examined on that subject.
    "  Question.
                  — Can you state in what proportion these results
 are produced from a chaldron of coals ?
    " Answer. — From reiterated experiments that I have lately
made I am enabled to say, that a hundred weight of Newcastle
coals produces from two hundred and fifty, to three hundred
cubic feet of gas ; and with regard to the light that is obtained
from the combustion of this quantity of gas I am enabled to state
that nineteen cubic feet of the gas, if applied to the purpose of
illumination, is equal to a pound of tallow candles ; that is to
say, if a tallow candle, six to the pound, be set up and lit, and
if it be suffered to burn for an hour and weighed after that time,
it will be found to have lost 180 grains; therefore 180 grains
of tallow are necessarily consumed in the combustion of a candle
during the time of one hour. — If I make a gas light of equal
intensity to that of the tallow candle, I find that half a cubic
foot of gas is requisite for the same period of time, and to give
the intensity of light ; therefore, from this statement it will be
come obvious that nineteen cubic feet of gas are equal to one
pound of tallow candles, provided they were set up and burnt
out one after another, that is to say, nineteen cubic feet of gas
are demanded to give a quantity of light equal in duration of
time and in illuminating power to one pound of tallow candles,
six to the pound. — I have stated already that a hundred weight
of coal produces from 250 to 300 cubic feet of gas ; therefore
from this statement the value of gas light with. regard to inten
sity and duration of tints may be learned when compared to that
of the light of candles.
    " A hundred pounds of coal produces from four to five pounds
of tar upon an average ; this tar is worth from 33s. to 36s.
a barrel at present f. — A chaldron of coals produces sixty
pounds of pitch, which is worth about three-pence halfpenny a
   * Minutes of Evidence taken before the Lords' Committees, to whom
was referred the Bill entituled, " An Act for enabling His Majesty to in
corporate by Charter, a Company to be called The Gas Light and Coak
Company, for making inflammable Air for Lighting of the Streets of the
Metropolis," &c. Ordered to be printed May 22, 1810.
   t  May 10, 1810.
Vol.44. No. 199. Nov. 1814.                    A  a               pound;

,   370       Dr.      Spurzheim'     '$   demonstrative     Course    of Lectures
    pound ;— and a chaldron of coals has produced to me thirty-
    two pounds of essential oil ; this I could sell at sixteen guineas
    a hundred weight.— With regard to the quantity of asphaltum,
    from one chaldron of coals I obtained from twenty-eight to
    thirty-two pounds ; this I could sell at 1 80s. the hundred weight.
    — The quantity of ammoniacal liquor amounts to one hundred
    and eighty pounds, that                is,
                                about eighteen gallons     and fourteen   ;
    hundred weight of ammoniacal liquor produced half hundred                  a
    weight of carbonate of ammoniac, this sells at about sixteen
    guineas the hundred weight       and fourteen hundred weight of
                                                      ;
    ammoniacal liquor,       be converted
                                if   it     into muriate of ammoniac,
    will produce    hundred weight of muriate of ammoniac, which
                        a
    is worth fourteen guineas.
       " Question. —What do you reckon the price of hundred                    a
    weight of coals
       " Answer. — reckon chaldron of coals at retail price
                            ?
                           I               a                                                :
     and  I take  chaldron of coals to be about twenty-eight hundred
                       a                                                                 65s.<U+FFFC>
    weight.
         "
        Question.
                            — Describe           how pitch   and asphaltum         are    pro*
    duced
         " Answer. — The
              ?
                          oil spoken of before       obtained    sub
                                                                  is                 by
    mitting the tar to   simple distillation
                                a             by continuing the same
                                                             ;
    process, an additional quantity of essential oil of an inferior
    quality     produced, whilst the consistence of the tar becomes
                  is
    diminished, and then approaches to         state of pitch.
                                                             a  By                           a
    further application of heat, and consequent subtraction of an
    additional quantity of oil, the pitch becomes converted into an
    asphaltum, which     to be purified in the usual manner."
                                is
        Anxious as we are to avoid the charge of encouraging vision
    ary speculation, we cannot help anticipating the extensive in
    troduction of the gas lights into private houses as at no great
    distance.    Mr. Ackerman in the Strand has set the example                              ;
    the whole of his house, from the kitchen to the drawing-room,
    his extensive warehouses, shop, printing-office, and manufactory,
    is  now and has for some years been lighted solely with carbu-
     retted hydrogen or coal gas.
     LIX. Dr.          Spurzhejm's               demonstrative   Course   of   Lectures on
        Lecture 4*.   he brain an aggregation of organs from bir|S
                            X                    is                            ;
     to the period of declension in age, its figure may be ascertained
                                *    Delhrered Friday, October 28.
                                                                                            by

     on Drs. Gall and Spurxketm's Pkysiognomonical System. 371
 by that of the skull.      Gall denominated the organs after the
 characters of men, and found in mathematicians a peculiar organ,
 which he termed that of mathematics : in mechanicans,               in
 thieves, murderers,    each had  his  characteristic  organ ; hence  a
 bad nomenclature of organs as being derived from abuse as well
 as from legitimate exercise of the faculties : difficulty of as
 certaining the sphere of the activity of the faculties : organ of
 cunning, intrigue, and hypocrisy : by constantly reflecting on
 himself selfishly, organ of thieving is developed in man. Gall
 admits of no division of the faculties : no organ of understanding
 or volition, but admits a difference in the different faculties of
  mind, and proceeded in the study of man as naturalists do in
  the material world.     He called mind a class which he divided
  into two orders or faculties : 1 . Intellect ; 2. Moral feelings.
  The latter he subdivided into four genera ; viz. propensities, sen
  timents, knowing and reflecting faculties.       Every faculty has a
 peculiar propensity, but every sentiment has not a propensity.      In
. every faculty its aim, abuses, and the effects of its inactivity, are
  to be considered. — Few actions are the result of one faculty
  alone.    The laws of induction as well as actual observation,
  confirm the fact of the correspondence between the faculty and
  the organ: every faculty is necessary to the perfect being ; and
  where one is exercised more than another the organ becomes
 conspicuous.      The cerebellum not fully developed until puberty
  and manhood : hence the organ of sexual love or amativeness
  found to reside in it. Dr. Gall was led to this inference, from
  attending a widow lady of Vienna, who was subject to severe
  attacks of epilepsy ; she uniformly fell backwards, and in sup
  porting her he perceived an unusual enlargement of the back of
  the neck, and a decided peculiarity in that part; it was alsa
  hotter than the rest of the body.
      In children and in females the cerebellum much smaller in
  proportion to the rest of the brain ; and this organ is much
  larger in males than in females, as appeared by comparing the
  »kulls of animals (birds as well as quadrupeds) from the mouse
   to the elephant.    Throughout the whole, the larger this organ
   the greater the propensity ; this propensity is manifested by the
  thickness or elevation of the back of the neck.       Wounds of this
   part of the  neck found to produce impotency     in many instances:
  bleeding frequently behind the ears does the same.        Sawing off
   the horns of stags produces temporary sterility ; well known
  to breeders of cattle that the thickness of the neck of the stallion
   and the bull the criterion of the generative faculty being vi-»
   gprous.    The ancients also made this obsefvation.      Dr. Spurz-
   heim, among other cases, mentioned that of a French soldier
   who was wounded in the back of the neck in Egypt., at the
                                   A  a 2                         early

872      Dr.   Spurzheimxs demonstrative Course         of Lecture*
early age of seventeen : the beard was never developed, and im-
potency has been the consequence.             Idiots and Cretins some
times   with  and  sometimes      without   this  propensity ; and when
they indulge in it,     it  is' from   the absence   of reason to govern
their passions, and not always in consequence of an enlargement
of cerebellum or neck. This propensity not always accompanied
by power of execution, as instanced in the case of eunuchs.
 Dr. S. concluded by remarking, that although this organ was
Considerably smaller in females than in males, he would show in
a subsequent lecture that they possessed an amiable superiority
over man, not only in this respect, but also that the organ by
which the love of offspring (or philoprogenitiveness) was cha
racterised, was conspicuously larger.             Dr. S. concluded by
stating, that if a single fact could be produced contrary to what
he had advanced in this lecture, it would overturn the whole
system which he was striving to inculcate.
   Lect. 5. The professor began with observing, that the di
stance between the ears gave the horizontal dimensions of the
Cerebellum, and that the skulls of males and females are much
more different in Germany than in England, and still more so
than in France ; in the latter, the heads of males and females
are very nearly similar.        The second propensity is that desigi
nated by the organ of philoprogenitiveness, or love of offspring,
which English moralists call storge; it is an elevated point at
the centre of the occiput, and very conspicuous in the female
skull, and even apparent in that of little girls.        The function of
this organ was discovered by observing monkies, which are very
fond of their offspring.        In some species the females are more
careful of their young, in others less, and some totally neglect
them, as birds lay their eggs in the sand, and leave them to be
hatched by the solar heat, and cuckoos lay them in the nests of
other birds.      Dr. S. exhibited the corresponding character by
the presence or absence of this organ in a great variety of skulls.
The female skull and neck are generally longer and narrower
in all animals ; but at this central extremity of the occiput, the
female cerebrum is generally better developed and more con
spicuous ; in the fox it appears more than in the dog, as the
latter is less affectionate to its young.         The contrast between
the skull   of  a cuckoo   and    that of a dove was very striking, as
exhibiting nearly the extremes of affection and indifference to
offspring.     There is a great difference between human being*
respecting young ; some women are delighted with all children,
Others cannot be troubled with their noise and bustle ; some
men also love children, others are annoyed by them.            This can
not be explained by habit, and must be referred to a peculjat

     on   Drs. Gall and Spurzheim's Pkysiogmmonical System. 373
 and innate propensity.        A few women, indeed, have been found
 almost destitute of this organ, and wherever it is wanting, it ii»
a certain indication of a predisposition to infanticide, should ex
ternal circumstances encourage the propensity.            In twenty-fives
 cases observed by Dr. S. in France, where this organ was de
fective,, infanticide occurred.      Some nations have this propensity
 stronger than others ; in negroes it is particularly conspicuous.
 It     however, peculiarly characteristic of females, and were men
      is,
to be nurses infanticide would be much more common.                  Boys
prefer whips, dogs, &c. girls babies, dresses, &c.
    III. The organ          inhabitiveness, Gall confounded with that
                                  of
of self-love, and alleged that physical propensities in animals might
 become moral ones in men. This          opposed                 by
                                                      Professor S. Cer
                                                      is
tain animals prefer elevated situations, as the chamois, eagle, lark,
&c. delight in places far remote from the sphere of their wants*
in procuring food        the lark might sing on the ground, and eat
                              ;
Its food    ;the eagle cannot get its prey in the air, and the cha
mois roams where every tiling              sterile.   No external want,
                                                       is
however, can ever produce, although                may excite,
                                                            it    faculty. a
Migration        not occasioned
                 is                              by
                                      want of food, as birds generally
depart before any scarcity even appears.             There are two va
rieties of rats, one inhabits cellars, the other garrets             their     ;
skulls indicate their peculiar localities,    as  the  garreteer  has this
organ an elevated ridge, on the back of the skull, which the
cellarer wants.      Different faculties have different organs        and       ;
it   isvery improbable that any physical propensity            changed in
                                                                      is
man from what                 in animals, or that anything physical
                              it   is
even in brutes can ever become moral in man.                The faculties
never change        even Platonic love in man terminates in physical
love. There           is, ;
                   then, a peculiar propensity for certain situations,
which       indicated
            is                    by
                           this organ.   All space was destined        the          by
Creator to be inhabited with some beings.            This organ      more      is
conspicuous        aquatic animals
                      in                but the inquiry relates to com
                                                  ;
parative anatomy.
    IV. Organ of adhesiveness or attachment.         Some animals
live in society, others not some live in society and are not mar
                                             ;
ried, others are married, as canary birds, &c.     Daws live in so
ciety, jays and magpies isolated.     These habits are not owing
to the activity of any faculty, but to a peculiar sentiment,
which      indicated
            is                     by
                         this organ of adhesiveness.   Dr. S. gives
it this name, because its import       more extensive than that of
                                                      is
attachment or friendship       the latter    only a modification of
                                             ;              is
this faculty, which includes patriotism, national and local attach
ment, &c. Nostalgia          an abuse of this propensity, a carica
                                        is
ture of patriotism.
                                                 A    a3                   Vi Organ

374        Dr. Spurzheim's demonstrative Course of Lectures
   V. Organ of comlaliveness.      Some children are quarrelsome,
others peaceful; even delicate women sometimes fight with great
obstinacy.   Rabbits fight and beat hares which are generally
larger animals, and little dogs often chace large ones.   Gall ad
mits of negative qualities, which Professor S. opposes ; a positive
sentiment or feeling cannot be the result of the want or absence
of another; fear is not the want of courage, but a real senti
ment.    This organ of combativeness or courage is situated in
the posterior angle of the parietal bone, nearly parallel with the
ear ;       generally great in proportion to the space between
          (it   is
the ears measured behind, and in thick necks and broad heads
very distinctly marked).
   VI. Organ              of
                  desiructiveness         ;   horizontal ridge in the
                                              it   is
                                                   a
skull passing immediately             the ear. Carnivorous animals
                                    above
have more brain behind than the herbivorous, instanced in the
 tyger, polecat, weasel, &c. which have great brain .backward!",
And hares, rabbits, &c. which have very little.         Claws, teeth,
&c. are merely the instruments which carnivorous animals use,
but they are not the caXise of their destructive habits      ;   it the
                                                                      is
internal propensity to devour.        Man devours every thing; he
is omnivorous,      The " tyger preys not on the tyger brood         ;"
                                                                    but
men in all conditions and degrees of life have this propensity, this
jdesire to kill.    Instances of an apothecary who turned execu
tioner merely to gratify his love of destroying animal life, of
merchants who became butchers, and others who paid butchers
 for permission to kill cattle. JSome robbers always murder as
well as rob others only rob some soldiers in the field put all
                     ;                ;
 to death, men, women, and children indiscriminately            others
                                                                 ;
 spare  all they can.    Idiots  and  madmen    often  evince this  de
structive propensity, and have occasional fits of destructiveness.
It   itnot owing to the food, as man eat both flesh and vegetables,
wht reas tygers, &c. eat flesh qnly,; animals know where to kill
others quickly, as they invariably attack them on the neck.
 Hence     it  unquestionably an internal propensity and peculiar
                 is
to man, who manifests         in the pleasure which some individuals
                               it
derive (both    children   and   grown persons) from torturing ani
mals, breaking things, as tables, chairs, glasses, &c. and         very
                                                                     is
properly denominated destructiveness.         Dr. S. exhibited busts
of Mitchell, Hollings and Sharpe the murderers, of Bellingham
 the assassin, and of the Frenchwoman         M. Ampere, who killed
 her mother and two sisters, in all of whom this organ was very
 conspicuous       demonstrative proof of the truth of this system
                      :   a                                                ;
 for, considering the infinite diversity of skulls,     would be im
                                                        it
 possible to account for this similarity on any other supposition
 than that of congeniality of character.

 •n Drs. Gall and Spurzheim's Pkysiognonionical System. 375
   Led, 6. After enforcing the necessity of studying the primitive
 faculties of the mind, Dr. S. proceeded to the Vllth propensity :
     Organ of comtrwtineness, or of mechanic arts. The faculty
 of construction is not derived from the form of the hands, feet,
 or any external instruments; monkies have four hands and
 do not build, other animals have only two, and yet build ; the
 same structure of feet is found in birds that build nests, and those
 which do not build : hares and rabbits have similar feet, yet the
 latter burrow, and the former do not.        Hands, indeed, are mere-
instruments ; the faculty or disposition is internal : it is a pri
 mitive faculty.      One man has this constructive faculty more de
 veloped, more active than an other, as one excells more or less
 in the arts. By this faculty birds build nests, men houses, ships,
 and construct every kind of instrument from the spade and
 plough to the chronometer, draw figures, design, grave, hew
 stone, cut cloth, make dresses, &c. and all the arts of civil life ;
 no other faculty is so active and so useful to society.          If this
 faculty be united to that of mathematics or music, it produces
 a mathematic or musical instrument maker ; to that of form
and colour, a sculptor, draughtsman, and painter; instances of
this organ being developed in a female, a dress-maker ; in the
 reputed skull of Raphael at Rome, and in a boy discovered by
 Dr. S. in the National school, Baldwin's-gardens.             'Kabbits
have it- and not hares; rats are without            it,
                                                     and do not build:
 hamsters  (a    kind of German rat, mm cricetus, Linn.) have         it
 very conspicuous, as they build ingenious houses in the sand in
the north of Europe.         Such comparisons of similarities are not
to be considered as extravagant or irrational, as the organs of
these little animals are as perfect for their purpose as man's are for
his.    The organ of constructiveness     is
                                          a    small elevation situated
above the temple, generally parallel with the cheek and jaw
bones.
    VIII. Organ    of    covetiveness ;  there are thieves among all
classes of society; even priests have this propensity;          Saurin,
pastor of Geneva, was remarkable for       it;   physicians often steal
things from the houses of their patients and afterwards send
them back   ;     a dying man put out his hand to steal the snuff
box of his confessor    ;  and idiots often have this propensity in-
the extreme, the diseased state excites     it  ; men covet and steal
every thing, even that which     is   more troublesome than useful to
them.     Jurisconsults deny the existence of this propensity as      a
faculty in nature, alleging that all our ideas of property are
things of convention, and that the law which defines an art of
theft is   artificial
                  ;     consequently there can be no innate faculty
in man for what    is   wholly artificial and the result of social re
gulations.     To this Dr. S. answers, although actual property       is
                                A   a 4                             ths

376      Dr. Spurzkeim's        demonstrative Course     of Lectures
the result of society and of conventional laws, yet the feeling of
property, the love of possession, is innate, it is connate with
selfishness.      Society creates no faculty; animals and men
whether social or unsocial equally evince this feeling of property
Qr possession, this propensity to self-appropriation.        It is apparent
throughout all nature ;' birds do not allow others to come into
their haunts ; hares, game, &c. have a certain country ; we
never see two robins on one tree ; there is never more than a
certain number of nightingales in one wood or forest.                    The
necessity   of food   may    have   some effect in this case, but the dis
position to prevent or flee intrusion is no less unequivocal ; %
dog defends his bone with more obstinacy in his master's house
than abroad ; men also having this feeling of menm resist with
more courage.          Hence this covetive propensity is natural, it
existed before any social conventions ; they came afterwards ; its
abuse rendered them and laws necessary to check its excesses.
This, like all other propensities, if duly exereised, is laudable ;
it is its abuse only which is criminal ; as drunkenness is not a
faculty but an abuse of thirst, so theft, plagiarism, fraud, usury,
self-appropriation,      &c. are abuses of this natural propensity, the
organ    of which   is  situated   immediately behind that of construe*
tiveness.
     IXyOrgan of secretiveness.          This is found in liars, hypo
 crites, dramatists, intriguers, &c. and runs a lateral direction
 behind the organs of constructiveness and eovetiveness (exhibiting
 an almost continuous ridge from the temples to the occiput, if
 the preceding organs be much developed) . All expressions are
 conformable to the primitive faculty ; he who conceals his de-r
 signs is cunning, and therefore has this organ.            Keeping a se
 cret belongs    to  this  faculty, and is meritorious (there is perhaps
 « o man of integrity who cannot keep a secret).           The above nine
 faculties are denominated propensities in man, in animals iiir
 Stinct, because innate or internal impulses.
     The next division of the mind is into that of sentiments, of
 which four are common to man and four to animals. Sentir
 ments have something more than mere inclination, are more ge
 nerally active in the individual ; some of them are common to
 men and animals, others only common to men, and others to
 animals.
     The Xth configuration is the organ of self-love or pride,
 which is situated on the central summit of the head j in mad
 men it is very commonly developed and conspicuous.                Profile of
 a beggar who was too proud to learn any business by which he
 might earn a subsistence.                             . »
     XI. Organ of approbation or vanity. This sentiment is in
 dicated by two oblong elevations or organs on each side of the
                                                                       orgaa

 otiDrs. Gall and Spurzheim's Physiognomonical               System. 377
organ of pride. Vanity has two organs, pride only one ; the im
pulses of the former are double, the latter single ; the one con
siders himself with relation to mankind, the other regards him
self alone.   Insanity arises much oftener from pride than vanity.
A vain man looks around and asks himself will such or such a
thing please ? shall I be applauded or censured ? a proud man
satisfies himself and cares for no more.       Women who are often
vain have this organ of approbation strongly developed ; it ap
pears in all characters ; a coachman is pleased with being told
that he manages his horses well ; a general, his army.            Emu
lation  is founded   in this  sentiment ;  it is called  a man's  weak
ness, but is in reality his strength.
    XII. Organ of cautiousness. This sentiment leads to doubt
ing, scepticism, irresolution, anxiety, fear ; excessive cautious
ness accompanied with bodily debility, disposes to melancholy,
and thence to suicide.       One man advances without any consi
deration of difficulties, while another says on every occasion,
** take care," and has cautiousness.       This organ appears in the
breadth approaching squareness of the posterior part of the
head; in women it is generally very distinctly marked.              This
sentiment explains how a man may have courage, and yet be at
the same time fearful.
    XIII. Organ of benevolence. Gall discovered this organ by
taking a cast of gentleman's servant, wno was remarkable for
meekness of character ; he observed a peculiarly high elevation
on the centre of the forehead, just at the commencement of the
hair j extending his observations, he found the same feature in
all persons distinguished for benevolence and meekness of cha
racter.    The skull of a carib is flat and without benevolence.
Seneca remarkable for this central ridge and for his benevolence.
Animals as well as men have this sentiment ; skulls of the cha
mois and roe, the former less elevated in front and with less
good nature.      There is a great difference in this respect be
tween animals of the same species ; instances in the skulls of
two monkies ; horses having a vertical ridge between the eyes
 are always meek and good natured ; without           it,
                                                        they kick dogs
                                                                  ;
with this feature are mild; without       it, and being wide between
the ears they bite.     Thus, observed the lecturer with much na
 tural eloquence and felicity of expression, we have seen that
6* a good heart   is  actually situated in the head." Benevolence
is  passive in animals and active in men in him
                                             ;          it   often called
                                                             is
pity, compassion, clemency, hospitality, christian charity, &c.         Is
 crueltya   want of benevolence   ?    No;   ithas been already proved
 that no. negative produces   a  positive faculty ;  but     checks and
                                                            it
 modulates cruelty.
                                                                      Led.

   3"S     Dr.  Spurzheim's    demonstrative Course   of Lectures
      Lect.  /. Of the faculties proper to     Man. — No philosophical
   system   hitherto proposed has adequately indicated the line of de
   marcation between men and brutes: the latter have all the primi
   tive faculties mentioned by philosophers, — perception, memory,
  judgement, and imagination. Some have denied them the latter ;
   but animals dream, and therefore imagine. Sentiments proper to
   man:-.-the first is religion, which prevails every where in all states
   of human existence. It has been vulgarly observed that men with
   bald heads are religious ; but women have rarely bald heads, and
   yet are more religious than men. Artists have delineated the chiefs
   of almost all religious sects with elevated heads ; the saints are
   all so represented.       Here the lecturer exhibited seven profile
   impressions    of  Christ-s  head, many of fiiem he considered as
   that of coxcombs, having the organ of approbation highly de
   veloped.     He then shewed a small figure of the Saviour, having
   a high head with the hair falling down on each side. The head
   of Christ (he observed, for the information of artists, who often
   exhibit a savage tyrant for a representation of the divine author
   of our religion,) should have all the faculties proper to man
-  greatly elevated, and those proper to animals depressed.         Lava-
   ter had this configuration very conspicuous. Religion is too vague
   a term for this sentiment, which does not include benevolence
   and the moral virtues, many men being pious without benevo
   lence, justice, or moral honesty y they will lie, cheat, and de
   ceive; theosophy is no better a term, as we know nothing of
   God-s knowledge.         Veneration is the best appellation, and I de
   nominate    it  the  organ of veneration, as it venerates and re
   spects, and is especially directed towards the Great Creator of
   all things.    But, although men are endowed with this sentiment,
   yet revelation is not superfluous ; religion existed among all men       ,
   long prior to revelation, and many nations are without revelation
   to the present day ; yet the sentiment of veneration even to the
   works of their own hands, to cats, dogs, and other animals, ex
   ists among the most savage people.         Man must be prepared for
   receiving revelation ; it is not given to animals, which are inca
   pable of receiving such gifts. This faculty is to be exercised, and
   it proves that religion is both natural and necessary to man. He
   who is destitute of this organ can never conceive how men vene
   rate the Creator of whom they know so little. You may reason,
   describe, and remonstrate with such a person about religion, but
   he can never either feel or comprehend your meaning.          If he not
   only rejects the practice of veneration, but cavils and rails at all
   religion, he only condemns himself, he merely proves himself to be
   destitute of this primary sentiment.       His conduct is like that of
   a blind man who should conclude that there is no such thing a*
                                                                      light

      on Drs.     Gall and Spurzheim'          s   Physiognomonical           System. 379
    light in existance ; as the erne can never perfectly understand the
    nature of vision, so neither can the other religion or veneration.
    No sentiment indeed can be taught. As men cannot be taught
    the sentiment of hunger without feeling                       it,
                                                             so neither can the
    feeling   of  veneration   be learned.     The   organ  of  veneration                   is   si
    tuated on the front-top of the head.
        XV. Organ      of   Hope :    This belongs to religion.       There     in           is
    man  a   sentiment of faith       :the faculties are given for the use                         of
    man in this life, and the indulgence of hope becomes. faith. Gall
    supposed that hope arises from every active facility, but Dr. S.
    considers     itas having something more than mere desire               many       ;
    persons    evince,  by  their  lives  and  actions,  that they  are all hope,
    and neglect every thing in this world in hopes of the great en
    joyments of the next they are enthusiasts and very credulous.
                             ;
    The organ of hope and faith               situated longitudinally on each
                                               is
    side of the organ of veneration.            Some persons have faith and
    not benevolence, others benevolence and not faith                  some are   :
    pious in saying their prayers and yet have no faith, justice, &a
    Examples      : Mitchell, the murderer, had no veneration or faith,
-    and only a little benevolence; but the animal propensities pre
    dominated 'in the great mass of head behind.              Hollings, another
     murderer, had faith, some veneration and benevolence, he re
     pented and was pious; Mitchell died callous.
         XVI. Organ     of   ideality or of poetry           :   situated above,
                                                                  it    is
     that of covetiveness, and        isthat expanded projection rising over
     the temples, as in the heads of Dryden, Milton, Shakespeare,
     &c. contrasted with the head of Locke, in which                    wanting;
                                                                             it   is
     Homer and Horace contrasted with Demosthenes who also
     wanted this organ.        Some persons are pleased with poetry al
     though they     do  not  write   it  others are pleased and write
                                          ;                                   and          it,
     some make verses and not poetry.             But, the question          what      is,
    is   the primitive faculty of poets          Versification
                                                   ?                 not p'oetrv,
                                                                             is
     neither    is  rhyme, because poetry existed long before rhyme;
     there are versifiers who are no poets, and prose writers whose
     diction is    entirely poetical.     Poets have       peculiar manner of
                                                                 a
     action;   always exalted, elevated, they consider man as he should
     he and never as he really        is  ;they contemplate the whole moral
     world in an exalted and purified state                  ; by this continued
                                                                 it   is
      exaltation they become, as           were, inspired.
                                          it                   Artists may have
     this faculty with great advantage to their art.           He who writes in
     a calm reasoning way        is certainly no poet.      Poets who contem
      plate all objects in an ideal view, have probably this faculty,
      which  is  denominated ideality.             often very injurious to men,
                                                   It   is
     as all their other feelings are exalted in like manner,              this in     by
      cessant exaltation of the imagination, to the neglect of reasoning,
     judgement, and experienced observation.
                                                                                             XVII.

   380     Dr. Spurzheim's demonstrative     Course  of Lectures
       XVII. Organ of Righteousness : Another sentiment which
   Gall has not noticed : it is the sentiment of right and wrongs
  This organ is situated behind that of faith.      Gall denies the ex
  istence of any positive conscience, and alleges that if a woman
  kills her child she only repents ; if a usurer omits an opportunity
  of taking advantage of his neighbour, he also regrets it ; and
  therefore there must be a good and a bad conscience or none at
   all. He would thus have as many consciences as organs ; but
  Dr. S. is of a different opinion, he reasons more correctly. Gall
  here seems to commit the error which he censures in the philo
  sophers, and confounds will with inclination, regret with repent
  ance or contrition. No inferior faculty has any conscience; and,
  however repugnant the fact may be to our feelings, there are
  persons who have really no conscience.          Examples : a mur
  derer in Holland threw people into the canals merely to have the
  pleasure of seeing them drown, and quite unconscious of its being
  any crime : many are pleased with criminal actions and wonder
  how others do not enjoy the same delight in them : criminals
  often go the gallows satisfied with the propriety of their own
  conduct : the Dutch drowner was astonished that he should be
  thought guilty of any crime, he had injured no one, he said, nor
 ever robbed any one. Bigots are of this description ; they are
  pleased with their own conceits, and cannot conceive why all
 others are not of their mind.      Hence, therefor*, we must admit
 that there are persons without any conscience, which belongs to
 the sentiment of righteousness.        In Sparta stealing was per
 mitted, provided    it was  done cunningly ; justice is therefore not
 a determinate faculty resulting from social laws : yet all men
 have a feeling of justice in proportion to their faculties.      Con
 science has been divided into absolute, individual, and positive :
 absolute conscience is the faculty of justice combined with the
 higher faculties ; individual conscience is not universal, and po
 sitive conscience is the same as absolute.        Christ is the only
 lawgiver   who   founds   all laws  on   the sentiment of absolute
justice.
      The XVIIlth configuration is the last sentiment and organ of
 determinateness, or firmness. This sentiment fixes all the others.
 He who has this organ resolves and persists in his resolution ; he
is a decided man, and may be depended on in moments of ne
cessity.    Instances of benevolent and of pious persons who have
firmness    and  who want it ; the former are tenacious and the
latter yielding.    Observe persons who argue and who will not be
convinced, and you may discover this organ of determinateness
near that of pride.      When this organ is disproportionately de
veloped, as often happens, it indicates stubbornness.        The pro
fessor exhibited a cast of the murderer Sharpe's head, whicli
    n                                                         perfectly

   on Drs.  Gall and   Spurzheim' sPkysiognomonical System. 381,
perfectly corresponded with his character, having the organ of
destructiveness, and all the animal faculties large behind and tlw
human ones very small before.
    Led. 8. Of the intellectual faculties. These are divided into
two genera, the knowing or perceiving and reflecting acuities.
The knowing or perceiving faculties make men acquainted with
                                                              f
the external world, with the qualities of things ; they begin with
the five senses.     Almost every opinion on this subject, which
has been taught by philosophers, is erroneous.             It has unfor
tunately been received as an unquestionable truth from Aristotle
to the present day, that there is nothing in the mind but what
has been received through the medium of the senses.              Yet all
propensities are internal, the external senses are only the means
by which the internal mind acts on the body.          There is no pro
portion between voluntary motion and the five senses; the mus
cles may be diseased, yet the senses remain perfect, as they do-
not feel, they only convey the external impressions to the mind,
they act mediately ; their object is two-fold, the external world
Is discovered by them only ; and every sense is brought in com
munication with the brain.         Voluntary motion is necessary to
all action-; the nerves of motion are in communication with all
the senses and the mind. All the senses are double ; there are
ten organs to the five senses, yet conscioasness is single.         This
generally received explanation      is not satisfactory to Dr. S., he
considers consciousness to be single only in the healthy state ;
in disease it is often double ; one thinks himself occasionally a
king ; another hears a voice on his one side and not on the other ;
 these are instances of double consciousness, for the supposed
voice is internal and not external ; it is his internal sensation.
 But, if consciousness be single, what is the effect ? Touch, say
 philosophers, rectifies all the senses after birth ; vision, smell, &c.
 they pretend, are rectified by the touch ; but one sense cannot
rectify another.     Every sense is subject to its own laws.       Some.   ,
animals see at birth and avoid external objects before touch has
 rectified their vision ; partridges, quails, &c. run from the nest
 immediately after breaking their shells.     Men never believe that
 they see internally ; they are always disposed to transfer their
 internal sensations to external things.        Madmen hear angels
 sing, but never suspect that the sensation is in themselves. No
sense can give power to another, but one may be corrected by
 another to a certain degree. A stick looked at with one end in
 water appears crooked ; by the touch we discover it is straight,
 but this is a contradiction, and not a rectification of the one
 sense by the other.     Yet the senses do rectify themselves. There
                                                                        is

382        Dr. Spurzheini    s  demonstrative    Course  of Lectures.
is no point, no seat of the soul ; the pineal gland, meninges,
are all visionary notions.        To see with two eyes, and hear with
two ears better than with one. Sometimes the senses are pas
sive ; but whenever the mind is active only one sense is engaged ;
shadows always fall on one eye, we see with two eyes but look
with only one ; we hear with both ears, but listen with one.
Animals as well as men prove this by the inclination of their
heads when listening.         The greater number of persons use the
right eve, which is generally stronger,' and often larger than the
left.    Hands are stronger by exercise ; and most children use
the right without any instruction.          Disease is more frequent in
the left than right side ; hump-backs are on the left side. ~The
same reason must exist for the action of the passive as the active
senses.     The functions of the five •senses are mediate or imme
diate ; the greater number is mediate and result from the exer
cise of the internal senses.         The exercise of an external sense
indicates the activity of internal power.          No sense or faculty has
two kinds of functions.         It is the internal faculties which exer
cise the external senses; for seeing only refers to colours, hear
ing to sounds.       The five senses are insufficient to explain th6
source of all our knowledge ; they only receive impressions but
do not produce perceptions.             Examples ; some persons have
great brilliancy, have in some degree universal knowledge, and
yet are not profound thinkers.           The French are distinguished
for   this brilliancy.    Some   animals   are naturally tameable, others
are not, and if an individual be domesticated its offspring is
wild ; hence we learn thai one species has not proceeded from
another.      Dogs are debarred the houses in Egypt as unclean,
 and yet they are tame.          The brain of the tyger inclines down
wards behind, that of the polecat is nearly horizontal, that of
the otter is more elevated behind, and it is tamed ; the fox has
the brain still more elevated ; the dogs from the greyhound to
 the tarrier and pug, gradually rise ; monkies still more so, and
 the orang outang has a forehead approaching that of some mid
 dling men ; in like manner the brain of caribs, some negroes,
 and idiots, is flat.      Lord Bacon had the highest and greatest
 forehead   ever   seen ; the  Jupiter of the ancients only equal to it.
 The primitive faculty however is not yet known.             A ridge over
 the nose and eyebrows at the base of the forehead indicates bril
liant men or persons of knowledge, men of fact. This deviation
 is found in children who look at every thing till nine or ten
 years of age, when it disappears in consequence of the develop
 ment of the other organs t This faculty, the first of the knowing
 or perceiving ones ; and XlXth configuration, gives a knowledge
 •f the external world ; it is the organ        if individuality, as it re
                                                                 members

                       Notices respecting New Books.
members       facts and objects, learns and knows things, but forgets
dates, same as children speak in substantives and infinitive verb*.
    XX. Organ of form; some animals are attentive to learn, as
some people easily recollect faces ; they have wide eyes, depressed
downwards outwards, and look somewhat as if squinting ; animals
have the same faculty ; bees distinguish         those of their own hive ;
dogs and elephants recollect and know their friends and enemies ;
this is the faculty or organ of form, which is essential to artists.
    It   is different from   XXI,   the organ   of size,   as the one con
cerns the figure or form, the other the dimensions or size,         which
are different conceptions of the mind. •
    XXII. Organ of weight. It is not feeling, not muscle; he
who examines the weight or density of any thing has an internal
power, and he may weigh any thing in case of physical injury or
disease without the feeling sense.
    XXIII. Organ of colours; the eyes are not sufficient for
painters.       Animals want the sense of colour, and some men ar»
 devoid of the sense of harmony of colours ; hence an internal
*ense.      Instances of persons attempting to become painters, and
failing from inability to discriminate colours, yet having perfect.
 vision.      This organ is manifested by an elevated circle over th«
 eyebrows, which gives the -countenance a gay jovial aspect.
 Women excel in colouring, as their taste in dress evinces, and
 bave this organ generally very conspicuous.
                                [To be continued.]
                     LX.    Notices respecting New Books.
  Dictionnaire Chinois, Frangnis et Latin, &?e. — Chinese, French
     and Latin Dictionary.           By M. De Guignes, late French
     Resident in China, at present attached to the Ministry for
     Foreign Relations, Corresponding Member of the First and
      Third Class of the Institute. Paris : Printed at the Govern
     ment Press      in 1813, but not published until July 1814       ; one
     large folio volume.        London   : imported by Deboffe.
  A      few copies only of this valuable and most laborious work
 liave reached this country.           As the small number of the im-
  presssion,     and  necessary high price, of such a splendid book will
  render it inaccessible even to a great majority of the learned on
  this side of the Channel, we take the earliest opportunity of
  giving some account of it to our readers. We confess indeed
  that we are unacquainted with the Chinese language ; a defi
  ciency for which we claim the indulgence of our readers, without
  fear of being accused of an unpardonable disqualification; for w«
  j    .
         '
            j                                                          mean

Jfe4                     Notices respecting New Books.
mean to confine our present article to a mere announcement of
the work. The task of examining it as critics must devolve
upon philologists more skilled than we are in the languages of
the East.
    The work is ushered into the world with a succinct detail of
the origin and progress of the enterprise, and a sketch of the
objects which its learned and indefatigable author sought to at
tain by its completion.       This is followed by a preface, distin
guished    for profound  erudition  and historical research, in which
the history of the Chinese language is traced with the pen of
 a scholar of no common classical attainments.        It is our inten
tion to present the readers of the Philosophical Magazine with
 a faithful translation of this interesting article in a future num
 ber : in the mean time we bring under their notice the curious
 and interesting account with which M. de Guignes has furnished
 us of the nature of the enterprise.
    " In 1801/' he informs us, "when I arrived from the capita}
 of the Chinese empire, and, after seventeen years absence, re
 visited my native country, the Government zealous of the honour
of publishing a Chinese Dictionary, invited a foreigner from
London on purpose, who, after remaining in Paris four years,
 took leave without even commencing it.          In 1808, a foreigner
was again proposed to M. Cretet; but this minister, truly at
tached to his native country, would not employ him : he was of
 opinion that a Frenchman alone ought to bring to light a work,
 for which the state had already provided the characters at the
public expense.       I was so fortunate as to receive the order for
printing    it,and accordingly obtained from the Roval Library
the MS. Chinese and Latin Dictionary of Father Basil             '*,
                                                              brought
from the Propaganda to Paris, which was given me as            model
                                                                  a         ;
and began the composition of the new Dictionary, which
    I                                                              was  I
obliged to fmish according to the orders of the Minister, in three
years.
   "   Chinese writing      composed of six elementary traces or
                                is
strokes, which added to 208 primitive characters form two hun
dred and fourteen keys, under which all the characters are
classed.     The Dictionaries published        by
                                             the Chinese themselves
are composed according to this system, i. e. all the characters
are placed according to the order of the keys, commencing with
the key of one single trace, and finishing with that of seventeen
traces, which       the last.
                    is           Father Basil had also arranged hw
  * M. Langzealles,     whose and lifnd dispositions are well known, intrusted
to ray care, besides,    Latin and Chinese Dictionary, and a Portuguese and
                         a
Latin Dictionary,    drawn up      the Missionaries in addition to the Chinese
                                     by
and Latin Dictionary         of M. ^ounnent.
                                                                       Chinese

                     Notices respecting New Books.              385
 Chinese and Latin Dictionary in this manner ; but subsequently
 changed his plan, and ranged all the words according to the
 distribution of the Chinese sounds, and according to the order of
 the letters of our alphabet.
    " The object which I proposed to myself in publishing the
 present Dictionary being to facilitate to those who study
the language the means of fmding the characters, I have pre
ferred adopting the method of the Chinese themselves, being
 firmly persuaded that they must have pursued the best method,
and that which was most conformable to the genius of their
language.     My own experience, besides, has been my guide,
and I have not been able to meet with any other ; for there was
no person except myself, at Paris, acquainted with the Chinese
language.     I determined, therefore, to compose the Dictionary
according to the order of the keys, fmd not according to the or
der of the tones or sounds; for the Dictionaries by keys are sim
pler. Besides, it would have been almost impossible to print the
Dictionary on the plan of tones : this work would have required
considerable depth of research, since at each character we
 must have been obliged to pass from one kev to another, fre
quently very remote, and to employ a great deal of time after
wards to discover this same character among the great number
 of those which compose every key ; a process so extremely
tedious, that it would have retarded the printing of the work
many years.                                                .  .
    " In the Dictionary by keys, we haye only two operations to
perform : in order to find any given character, we must refer to
the table of keys and to the table of traces.
    " In the Dictionaries upon the system of the order of tones,
there are. on the contrary, three operations : we must in the
first place consult the table of the two hundred and fourteen
keys to discover the right key ; secondly, the table of all the
characters ranged by keys, in order to have the pronunciation ;
and thirdly by the help of this very pronunciation,     to look in
the body of the Dictionary for the explanation which we want.
To this long and difficult labour a serious inconvenience is an
nexed ; i. e. in the Dictionaries. by tones, if by an involuntary
lapse of memory a character has been omitted in the table of
the characters arranged by the order of keys, it is no longer
possible to find itSn the body of the Dictionary, although this
character be there explained.    Father Basil has sometimes made
this omission in his Dictionary, and we may easily see how trou
blesome this is for those who study Chinese.
    " In a word, in the dictionaries -by keys, it is sufficient to
know the configuration of a character, in order to have the pro
nunciation and signification : in the dictionaries by tones, on
    Vol.44. No. 199. Nov. 1814.         -   B b                 the

                     Notices respecting New Books.
the contrary, we must not only be acquainted with the pro
nunciation and the tone of a character, but even its significa
tion, before finding the form of it. For instance, if we wish to
look for the word tien : it is necessarv to know that lien is of
the first tone aspirated, and that it signifies heaven, in order
to discover, in the great quantity of words which are all pro
nounced tien, the character of tien which answers for heaven.
     " It results, therefore, from what has been said, that the dic
tionaries by keys are more easy for beginners, who know' the
figure of a eharacter without knowing its signification ; whereas
the dictionaries by tones are only useful to persons who know
the pronunciation, the tone, and signification of a character,
i. e. who know the Chinese, like the Missionaries, who, when-
 they composed, wrote first the pronunciation of the words, and
afterwards put down, by the help of the tone and signification,.
which are already known to them, the characters of the form of
which they are ignorant.
      " To this advantage of rendering our researches more simple,
and consequently more easy, the dictionaries by keys add that
of showing more clearly what the tonic dictionaries do not ;
 namely, the formation of the characters.            Nevertheless, that I
 might not make an incomplete dictionary, I determined to give
  also the pronunciation of the characters arranged by the order
 of tones. I therefore ranged all the words in alphabetical order,
 and formed a separate dictionary, in which every Chinese word
 is accompanied by the principal explanatory word*; by the help
 of which, as well as of the number, we may have recourse to the
character in the body of the Dictionary.            By pursuing this me
thod I have avoided repeating the characters twice, as we are
obliged to do in all the tonic dictionaries ; a repetition which is
useless in my Dictionary, since, if a person knows the pronun
ciation and the signification of a character, he will easily find
this same character in the table of keys, by means of the num
ber of reference f.
     **
         The dictionaries composed by the Missionaries are all con
structed on the same model, and copied from a first work J. The.
Dictionary of Father Basil drawn up in 1/26, i. e. long after
           .  • .                                                        the
    *   I hnve placed under the primitive words the numbers of the wordss
which have some resemblance to them, so that we see the duplicates at the*
first glance.
    t The Chinese have also tonic dictionaries: but these kinds of works are
very rare; the explanations are almost always less detailed. There is be
sides at the head a table of all the characters arranged by keys, with their
reference to the Dictionary of tones; which clearly proves that the arrange
ment of the characters by keys is indispensable.
    I  The Chinese write from top to bottom, and from right to left; but ttiis
not agreeing w ith our way of printing,   I have placed,. for the sake of i'a-

                             Notices respecting New Books'                  .
the arrival of the first Missionaries in China, is itself a copyr a
proof of which               is,
                      that my Dictionary, and those of the Royal
Library,  are entirely similar to                   it,
                                      'with the exception of several
errors which are imputable. to the copyist.      Nevertheless, as
these errors are sometimes serious,    have collated the Diction
                                                          I
ary of Father Basil with those of the Missionaries, every time
that the former gave a different or faulty translation, and in
doubtful cases    have restored the translation from the Chinese
                        I
text*.     have not thought
              I                necessary to give various readings
                                            it
under these circumstances because, all the dictionaries composed
                                        ;
by the Missionaries not being originals, but translations of texts,
it was sufficient to consult these same texts to have the true
meaning.
     "For example, under the character me (10,404) we find in
all the dictionaries, quoddam animal urso simile, habens awes
elephantis      :have restored the word nares, which
                    I                                          in the                is
Chinese text. In the same way, under the character           (9918),                ly
the Missionaries have said, res sat venusla mox perilura;                                          it
must be res sat vetusta, since the text employs the words yong
kieoti, a thing which has been in use       long time, and    conse
                                                              a                      is
quently old.
     "Here    ought to do justice to M. Fourmont, by declaring
               I
that in his Dictionary he has adhered to the texts of the two
passages   which      have quoted.
                         I            This         clear proof that
                                                                  is   a
M. Fourmont was acquainted       with  the  Chinese  language; and
yet some persons who have not the slightest knowledge of                                           it
                                                                                     of
have taxed this truly learned man with being ignorant              so'               it       :
true     it that men of the greatest talents are always depressed
              is,
 by those who have the least
                                                                                              '
                                                                                              '    '
   " The number of characters, including the duplicates, amounts
                                            !
                                                                                          .
m" the table of Father Basil's Dictionary to 9959         have made        f.   I
them amount to nearly     14000       All  the  characters
                                                 %•         which                                  I
have added are from the Chinese Dictionary entitled Tching-
tse-tong, and are distinguished       an asterisk.  by
cility, the characters from left to right. This arrangement does not         the              in
least' affect the signification of the character which is isolated: besides,                       it
is  conformable to the order adopted        Father Basil and other Missionaries
                                                    by
in their dictionaries.
 *    The Chinese dictionaries Tching-ttc-tong, Tchouen-lse-oey and Tte-oey.
t        If
         there are    Father Basil's tonic dictionary any characters explained
                        in
beyond this number, they cannot be found; for they are not represented
in his table of characters arranged        keys. by
f
I        comprehend in this number the duplicates          these characters are
                                                                       :
sometimes employed instead of the primitive character, and have like         the              it
same pronunciation and the same signification        but, as they differ from
                                                              ;                                    i%
frequently by the key,        was important to add them,
                                   it                        order to enable the
                                                                       in
translator to find them.
                                                B   b    2                                    "In

3$8                Nilices respecting iVew Books.
    "In composing my Dictionary, I have taken care to report
under the principal word, and to put in their true place, the ex
planations, which in the dictionaries of Father Basil and other
Missionaries are sometimes confounded with particular ways of
•peaking or pronouncing ; so that those who translate think
that these explanations belong to the phrase which precedes ;
whereas they have no connection with it whatever.           For in
stance, under the character Jang (3826) we find in the Dic
tionary of Father Basil, fung-tclwou, hince naves simul con-
nexce ; locus, ars, modus, reguln, &c.        Now these last four
words do not belong to the phrase fang-tcheov , but to the
character fang.      It must not be concluded, however, from what
 I have said, that the labours of the Missionaries are defective ;
the manner in which they have translated, on the contrary,
proves that they have consulted the tests, and taken the Chinese
as their models : but the latter, after having given the explana
 tions, both of the isolated character and of the character con
nected with another, have taken care, when they wished to in
dicate some new acceptations, to trace a circle, in order to show
that the explanations which follow ought to be referred to the
principal character, and not to the preceding phrase.      It is this
 indication which the Missionaries have not given in a manner
sufficiently striking; which was necessary to remove every chance
of error.         . > ;
    "I  have placed at the end of the Dictionary a table of the
numeric characters, which is essential to be known, if we wish
to speak correctly : I have afterwards put down the characters
which the Chinese join with the word ta ; and lastly, the cha
racters which serve for counting.      I have passed over the cha
racters, the acceptations of which are completely opposite, be
cause this addition, besides greatly swelling the volume, would
be useless, since each of these characters is arranged in its plac*
in the body of the Dictionary.
    " The extremely limited time of three years, which was ori
ginally prescribed to me for the completion of the Dictionary,
having compelled me to make the composition and printing go
©n at the same time, I have been obliged to throw into a sup
plement all (tie double characters which occurred when they
could no longer be put into the body of the Dictionary, the
figures or tracings of which these same characters are composed
being fewer in quantity than those of the principal character-
which was printed at the moment of their occurring.
 '  " The table of proper names arranged according to the order
of the keys terminates the Dictionary. Those who wish to study
the Chinese language ought to read this table with attention;
for the .proper names of the Chinese haying nothing which di
                                                        stinguishes

                      Notices respecting New Books.                           389
  stinguishes them from other words, it is important to have a
           knowledge of them, in order to avoid blunders in trans-
 Sierfect
   ating.
     " I have verified all the characters and all the sounds : the
 defective characters are few in number ; the erroneous tones, at
 least those which struck me on running over the great quantity
 of phrases which exist in the Dictionary, are more multiplied ;
 and I must request the reader to consult the errata*.
     " As to the characters, 1 emploved those which I found in the
 possession    of the Government        f
                                        ; they are correct.         Some of
 them, perhaps, might have been better executed : but at the pe
 riod when these characters were cut in wood, i.e. between 17 M
 and 1 742, this kind of engraving had not reached the perfection
 which it can now boast of: besides, these characters in wood
 have not always remained in the same place, and they must ne
 cessarily have received some damage in the various removals
 which they have undergone.
    "All the characters in the Dictionary are made in imitation
of the characters which the Chinese use in their printed dic
tionaries, and not according to those which are to be found in
the MS. dictionaries of the Missionaries.          The former are per
pendicular     and   uncommonly    clear,  whereas    the latter are fre
quently inclined    and  sometimes  incorrect.   Now,    as in the Chinese
 dictionaries, a stroke more     or  less changes    the   signification of
the characters entirely, it may easily be conceived that we could
not admit into a work like a dictionary, such as were not per
fectly correct.
    " I have conformed myself, with rcpect to the pronuncia
tion of the Chinese words, to that which is given by the Tching-
tse-long. As to the orthography, I have preferred that of the
Spaniards, because in the language of that nation all the letters
are pronounced.         I have nevertheless simplified       it, constantly
keeping     in view that which was adopted             Father de Mailla,
                                                        by
and which         besides the most recent.
                 is                                have suppressed the
                                                    1
letters e,  o, u, employed   bythe Missionaries, because these letters
are usually pronounced like       i,   and u, in the French.
                                       o,                           In some
provinces of China, they pronounce            like
                                                o  ou    :but   this     not
                                                                        is
general and have not thought myself
        ;        I                            called  upon   in    classical
                                                                   a
work to express certain particular inflexions.          Besides, the sup
                                                          point rendered
                                                        by
pression of those three letters surmounted              a
phe printing much easier     : an important object, since          ithad al-
   * The Errata contains the rectifications of sonic errors of cyphers   in
                                                                       the
references; these errors I   could not avoid. for these references were
printed long before the character to which they belonged.
 t   These characters were engraved under the inspection of M. Fourmont,
from the Chinese Dictionaries' 'L'l hinsrtse^tung and Tse-oty.
                                   B   b    3                            ready

300                                Notices respecting New Books.
ready become extremely complicated by the necessary employ
ment -of the five tones, either simple or aspirated., placed over
each word to indicate the various pronunciations.
     " I have replaced the letters in and u by the French letters
u and ov, and the words su and zsu by the words sse and tse,
conforming myself to the pronunciation which I learnt during
my residence m China, a pronunciation similar in other re
spects to that of the Latin and Portuguese Dictionary which the
Royal Library afforded me.
   "    Thus freed by these slight changes from every thing that
 can embarrass                it,
                         the pronunciation which         have made use of
                                                                       I
approaches       the  true   pronunciation   most closely     and this    all  ;                is
 that  is  necessary for persons who wish merely to translate.           As
 to such as wish to learn to speak the Chinese language, they
 can only expect to acquire            with the assistance of
                                             it                     Chinese                 a
 master otherwise tney will never succeed in pronouncing, as
            ;                                                                                        I
 can, the words, vgd (1), ngay (to love), nvan (repose), nor even
 other words less difficult, such as /lien (city), and hao (good).
     " have placed over each word the tone which
      I                                                            proper to           is
 it. This tone          simple, or aspirated
                              is                    belongs to the entire
                                                             :    it
 word, and may be placed indifferently over any one of the letters
 of which        it      is
                     composed.       The words with        simple tone are a
 pronounced       without    any  effort   this   :not the    case when we
                                                                 is
 wish to articulate those which have the aspirated tone, in which
  the first letter            is
                         pronounced as          was double
                                                      if   it   thus piao to       :
  strike  is pronounced ppiao.
      " Such are the facts relative to the publication of work, the                    a
  printing of which was ordered at the end of 1809, and termi
  nated     in SltS, under the auspices of the Minister of the Interior,
                 1
  r. e. about      century after the first attempt at its execution.
                     a                                                     It
  only remains for me to solicit the indulgence of my readers                                        ;
  and I   flatter myself with obtaining                    it,
                                                  they are pleased to re
                                                                 if
  collect that the Chinese Dictionary which was to have been
 published long since                  by
                                Messrs. Fourmont and de Guignes, both
  known throughout all Europe for their erudition and their
  writings, has now been brought out                             by
                                                  a' man who has no pre.-
  tensions to such titles, and whose only honour consists in being
  attached to a distinguished ministerial department of state,
 several of the members of which are eminent for talents and ex
  tent of knowledge."
      We have thus endeavoured to discharge the humble, but we
  trust not unprofitable, duty which we undertook, namely, that
 of giving an account of a great novelty in the literary world.
 Viewing        it
                as    specimen of typography,
                          a                           exhibits no want of
                                                                      it
 due care and attention         and we have no doubt
                                       ;                    will be found as
                                                                           it
 accurate        guide
                 a        to  the Chinese   language  as  can   be expected,

                  Notices respecting New Books.                       391
from any European press. M. de Guignes has merited the
thanks of the learned of all nations by the pains he has taken j
 and we freely forgive him for the sneers in which he occasionally
indulges in his preface and annotations at the expense of the En
glish philologists to whom he occasionally alludes. He too
boasts of his contributions to the glory of France : happy would
it have been for Europe,      like M. de Guignes, his countrymen
                            if,
had limited their thirst for glory to the domains of literature and
science     The French editor of a Chinese Dictionary
              !                                                more
                                                                is
likely to be a benefactor to mankind, and surely must feel more
inward satisfaction, than all the Marshalls of the empire! We
congratulate M. de Guignes therefore, on this additional triumph
of France over her neighbours.        may not be permitted to us
                                          It
to be envious of her literary fame, but we may fairly be emulous
of her example.
    Mr. Bakewell  is  preparing for the press    second edition of
                                                    a
 his Introduction to Geology, which will be considerably en
 larged, particularly  byinformation acquired during the author-s
 recent examination of different parts of England, and the eastern
-coast of Ireland.
    This edition will contain a notice of the most important
geological discoveries and observations which have been made
 on the Continent of Europe, and in various parts of the globe,
since the publication of the former, and     intended to comprise
                                               is
a  view of the progress and present state of the science.
    A new edition of Dr. Lettsom-s Naturalist-s and Traveller's
Companion will be published next month.
   This work, whose great utility has been so long acknowledged,
will be considerably improved in the new impression         ;all the
subjects formerly treated of will be carefully revised, and adapted
to the present state of our knowledge of natural science         and
                                                                 ;
several highlv interesting additions will be made, which
                                                    >
                                                                     it   is
hoped will render the work a most serviceable and agreeable
Vade Mecum to all who are fond of natural history, and to
travellers particularly in every part of the globe.
    It  with much pleasure that we announce the completion of
         is
" English  Botany," containing coloured figures of all the British
plants, in number amounting to 2592.     This extensive publica
tion has been the labour of about twenty-three years, and may
be now be considered a perfect national Flora,      work which
                                                        a
has been attempted in several countries, and which  has  not pro
ceeded nearly to completion in any other, although carried on
                             B    b   4                     under

  392                . Notices respecting New Books     .
  under the highest patronage, while an humble Englishman as
  sisted by the superior talents of Sir J. E. Smith, M.D. &c. has
  been so fortunate as to conduct it through a memorable period
  of calamitous warfare with which it commenced, and with which
   it has happily terminated.
       The Philosophical    Transactions,   part ii. for 1814, has just
  made its appearance, and'the following are its contents :
        15. On a new principle of constructing His Majesty's ships of
   war. By Robert Seppings, Esq. one of the Surveyors of His
   Majesty's Navy.       Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph
   Banks, Bart. K.B. P.R.S. — 16. Remarks on the employment
   of Oblique Riders, and on other alterations in the construction
   of Ships.     Being the substance of a. Report presented to the
   Board of Admiralty, with additional demonstrations and illustra
   tions.    By Thomas Young, M.D. For. Sec. R.S. — 17. Some
   further Observations on Atmospherical Refraction.        By Stephen
   Groomhridge, Esq. F.R.S. — 18. Propositions containing some
    Properties of Tangents to Circles ; and of Trapeziums inscribed
   in Circles, and non-inscribed.        Together with Propositions on
    the Elliptic Representations of Circles, upon a plane surface, by
    Perspective.    By Richard Hey, LL.D. ; late Fellow of Sidney
    Sussex and Magdalen Colleges, in the University of Cambridge.
    Communicated by the Rev. Edward Balme, M.A. F.R.S. —
   .19. On new Properties of Light exhibited in the optical Phse-
.   nomena of Mother of 'Pearl, and other Bodies to which the su
    perficial structure of that Substance can be communicated.       By
     David Brewster, LL.D. F.R.S. Edin'. and F.S.A. Edin.          In a
     Letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks, Bart.
     K.B. P.R.S. — 20. An iitfproved method of dividing Astronomi
     cal Circles and other Instruments.        By Captain Henry Kater.
     Communicated       by Thomas     Young, M.D. For. Sec. R.S.—
    21. Results of some recent Experiments on the Properties im
     pressed upon Light by the Action of Glass raised to different
     Temperatures, and cooled under different Circumstances.         By
     David Brewster, LL.D. F.R.S. Edin. and F.A.SE. in a Letter
     to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. K.B. P.R.S. &c.
     —22. Consideration of various Points of Analysis.         By John
     F. W. Herschel, Esq. F.R.S. — 23. Observations on the Func
     tions of the Brain.       By Sir Everard Home, Bart. F.R.S -j-=-
     24. Further Experiments and Observations on Iodine.          By Sir
     H. Davy, LL.D. F.R.S. V.P.R.I. — 25. Observations respecting
     the natural Production of Saltpetre on the walls of subterraneous
     and other Buildings.      By John Kidd, M.D. Professor of Che
     mistry at Oxford.      Communicated bv William Hyde Wollaston,
                                                                   M.D,

                            Royal Society.                       393
 M.D. Sec. R.S.— 26. On the Nature of the Salts termed triple
Prussiates, and on Acids formed by the union of certain Bodies
with the Elements of the Pru'ssic Acid. By Robert Porrett,
jun. Esq. Communicated by William Hyde Wollaston, M.D.
Sec. R.S. — 27. Some Experiments          on the Combustion of the
 Diamond and other carbonaceous Substances. By Sir Hum
phry Davy, LL.D. F.R.S. V.P.R.I.— 28. Some Account of the
fossil Remains of an Animal more nearly. allied to Fishes than
 any of the other Classes of Animals.        By Sir Everard Home,
 Bart. F.R.S. — 29. On an easier Mode of procuring Potassium
than that which is now adopted.         By Smithson Tennant, Esq.
 F.R.S. — SO. On the Influence of the Nerves upon the Action
 of the Arteries.    By Sir Everard Home, Bart. F.R.S. — 31. On
the Means of producing a double Distillation by the same Heat.
 By Smithson Tennant, Esq. F.R.S. — 32. An Account of some
 Experiments on Arterial Heat.        By John Davy, LL.D. F.R.S.
              LXI.   Proceeding*   of Learned Societies.
                           ROYAL SOCIETY.
 Nov. 10.    This    evening the Society assembled after the long
 vacation;   the Right Hon. President in the chair.         A letter
«from Dr. Brewster to the President was read, detailing his further
 observations on the glass drops, called Rupert's.      According to
 Dr. B's experiments heated glass assumes a crystalline form at
 a certain temperature, and the specific gravity of unannealed
 glass is different from that of annealed.
    Nov. 17. A paper by Dr. Roget was communicated by Dr.
 Wollaston, and read to the Society, describing a -newly invented
 instrument on the principle of the sliding rule, for facilitating
 arithmetical calculations.    It embraces all the advantages with
 out the delects of the sliding rule and Gunter's scale ; but as the
 paper was accompanied by drawings, a verbal description would
 not be intelligible.     The idea was perhaps derived from Dr.
 Wollaston's scale of chemical equivalents, and only more exten
 sively applied.
    Nov. 24. Part of a Letter addressed to the President by Dr.
 Brewster was read, containing a view of the author's numerous
 experiments on the depolarization of light.      Almost every sub
 stance, animal, vegetable, and mineral, has been operated on by
  Dr. B., and all except muriate of soda and spinelle ruby, de-
  polarized light in every direction.
    The Society then adjourned till the anniversary on the 30th
 of November,                    '         .
                                                          LXII. hu

                                [  394    ]
           LXtl.   Intelligence and Miscellaneous     Articles,
                            DIVING MACHINE.
   JL he Gazette   de  France gives some curious particulars of ex
  periments made on the 22d of October, with a new diving ma
  chine, by Mr. Melville, the inventor.       He descended twice in
  the Seine, near the Pont Royal, to the depth from ten to twenty-
  feet, and passed 56 minutes at the bottom.        He took with him
  two swans, two ducks, and some bread and wine.           He let loose
  the aquatic animals while under the water; went from the Pont
  Neuf to the Swimming School, and came out dressed as usual,
  without being in the least wet. The machine does not resem
  ble any thing of the kind hitherto employed ; it is neither a bar
  rel nor a bell, but has rather the form of an egg. It is not bulky,
  since it contains only five cubic feet of air ; this air is prepared
 in such a manner that pressure can do it no harm, but it is kept
 pure and fresh.      Mr. Melville says that he has taken with him
 different animals, as cats, rabbits, dogs, &c. but the latter can
 not bear this kind of air longer than five minutes, as they go mad
 in it ; but he declares that he could stay half a day under water
 without the slightest inconvenience.       He has the use of all his
 limbs, and can do what he pleases,     saw wood, bore gimlet holes,
 and pick up the smallest objects.      Though his pulse rises from
  120 to 160, he asserts that he feels from it an agreeable sensa
 tion, a kind of electrical effect. He promises several other in
 teresting inventions ; for instance, that he shall, this winter,
 make a little carriage, in which two persons may next summer,
 take the most pleasant excursions at the bottom of the Seine, in
 the Ponds of Versailles, or in any river.
     The Pope, since his return to Rome,     has directed much   of his
 attention to the improving and keeping in repair the public
 buildings, ancient and modern, of that splendid depository of
 almost all that is valuable in antiquities and the fine arts.     The
 works going on at the Coliseum, and the formation of the
 Museum of Pius Clementinus, have been particularly the ob
ject of his care. He has not been able to prevent the transfer
to the King of Naples, of the celebrated collection of Cardinal
Borgia, at Velletri, and which the former purchased for 20,000
ducats ; but he has put an end to the negociation for the sale of
the valuable collection of medals and engraved stones which the
same Cardinal left to the Propaganda.
                      EARTHQUAKE      AT LYONS.
    On the 6th inst. about six o'clock in the morning, two violent.
shocks of an earthquake were Felt at Lyons, in the direction
                                                                 from

                           Medical Electricity.                         395
from west to       east, preceded by a loud clap of thunder unac
companied by lightning.           Both before and after the report the
rain descended in torrents ; the weather had been the night
preceding very tempestuous.               The nature of - this phenome
non, whose effects were felt in all quarters of the citv and in
the surrounding country, has not yet been satisfactorily ascer
tained.       At Croix-Rousse parts of a wall were thrown down,
and a reservoir, full of water, became dry; in many places the
windows were broken to shivers, furniture thrown down, small
craft dashed to pieces.         The farmers, on their way to Lyons,
were thrown backwards by the violence of the shock.
                          MEDICAL ELECTRICITY.
     On this subject we extract the following article from Gilbert's
 Annalen der Physik, Neue Folge, 1814, part 5.                -
      '* In the battle of
.                                       , an officer in the French service
 was knocked down by a cannon ball which passed very closely
 over the crown of h's head. His soldiers who had a great regard
 for him, immediately carried him off the field to a place of
 safety.     The cannon ball had, by the rapidity with which it
 flew, given such a shock to the head that the tongue was as if
 shrivelled up, and was reduced into such a small compass that
 it could scarcely be perceived. It was impossible f6r him to ar
 ticulate any sound, and he had completely lost the power of
 speech. Medical officers of various countries attended him, and
  did all they could for him : eight mouths were passed in this
  melancholy way, and at length all hopes were given up of rev
  covery.
      "  The use of electricity was then recommended.                He was
  conveyed    to  the  medical  institution   in  the  Palais cle la Cour at
  Brussels,   and  the  superintendant, Dr. Zimmerman,        undertook  his
  treatment.      During the three first days he was electrified daily
  for three quarters of an hour at a time, and also received what
  is termed the electrical bath, without the slightest appearance of
  improvement.        On the fourth day he was twice electrified, the
 first   time  in  the  morning fasting and the last in the afternoon,
  when a strong perspiration came on.              In this way the process
  was continued for eight days ; and at every application the sweat
  fell from him like drops of rain.        Immediately the tongue began
  to appear and to move, and the patient seemed also -to enjoy
 some use of it.
      " In proportion as this member recovered its natural size and
  was freed from the restraint under which it had suffered, the pa
  tient recovered the use of his limbs also, and in a few days was
  able to articulate and move about.         A perseverance in the treat
  ment ultimately completed the cure,"
                                                                      MINE

 396         Mineralogy -—rS[)urzkcim,s Lectures.— Patents.
                                MINERALOGY.
      We    have    received several letters respecting the proposed
 subscription    for collections of petrifactions issued by the Minero-
 logical Society     of  Han an, and shall lose no time in writing to
 our correspondents in Germany to ascertain more particulars and
 how they can be transmitted to this country.
            dr. spurzheim's lectures on craniology.
    We have this month continued with much pleasure our sketch
 of the lectures, now in course of delivery by this accomplished
and popular candidate for philosophical fame.           Dr. Spurzheim,
although a foreigner, possesses a thorough knowledge of the
 English language and literature, and his demonstrations are,
therefore, luminous and eloquent beyond expectation.                 His
audience consists of the most eminent professional and scientific
characters of the metropolis, and net a few elegant and en
lightened females occasionally grace the benches of his lecture
room*.
                           RUSSELL INSTITUTION.
    Early in January, Mr. Singer will commence a Course of
Lectures on Electricity and Electro-Chemistry, at the RusseH
 Institution.
    These Lectures will include tte most recent inquiries, and are
to be illustrated by Mr. Singer's powerful apparatus which has
been considerably improved and extended for the occasion.
                LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
    B. L. Mertian, of London. — For a method of extracting
jelly or gelatinous matter from substances capable of afford
ing the same. Communicated to him by a foreigner residing
abroad. — July 12.
    J. Dawson, of Dublin. — For certain means of communicat
 ing motion to bodies either wholly or in part surrounded by
water or air, by the reaction of suitable apparatus upon the wa
ter or air. — July 16.
    J. Smith, of London. — A spring hinge for doors and gates: —
 July 16.
     G. Dunnage, of Hammersmith. — Method of rowing or pro
pelling vessels — July 26.
     H. W. Vandercleft, of High Holborn. — Method of purifying
 and refining whale and seal oil. — July 26.
    * Dr.
           Spurzheim's next course will commence     in February next, at
 No. 11, ltiithbone Piuce. —Terms Three Guineas,

                                Patents.
     A. Hill, of Plymouth      iron -works, Glamorgan. — Improve
ments in melting and working of iron.           July 26.
     W. Jonson, of Hall Farm, Essex. — Improved process of mak
ing salt. July 26.
     W. Doncaster,     of Charles Street, Cavendish        Square. — Im
provements in navigating vessels ; a hydrostator or mill ; acce
lerating the motion of carriages ; and a dining table.          July 26.
     T. Sykes of Sheffield. — Improvements on fire arms. Aug. 4.
     J. Collier, of Upper Thorrihaugh Street. — A machine for
combing wool, hemp, flax, cotton, &c.           Aug.
 •   J.Thomson, of Yarmouth, Norfolk. — Making ships govern
able.      Aug. 4.
     E.   C. Howard, Mary-le-bone. — Separating           insoluble   sub
stances    from fluids.   Aug. 4.
     T. Michell, of Upper Thames Street. — A machine for rais
ing water with less power than hitherto, for the impelling of
                                          -
machinery.        Aug. 4.              -'   -*•
     T. S. Pauly, of Little Charlotte Street. — Improvements in
                                                                 • •! '
fire arms.      Aug. 4.
      G. Courtald, of Braintree. — A spindle for the manufacture of
                                     • -- ' .
 silk thread.     Aug. 4.
     S. Erard, of Creat Marlborough Street. — Improvements in
 musical instruments.      Aug. 4.
      M. Larkin, of Blackwall. — Improvements in ship-s windlasses.
 Aug. 16. •
      H. W. Vandercleft, of High Holbom. — A walking-staff to
 contain a pistol, powder, ball, telescope, pen, ink, paper, pencil,
 knife, and drawing utensils.      Aug. 17. >
      R. Salmon, of Woburn. — Machines for making hay\ Aug. 22.
      J. and G.' Dickenson, of Nash Mills. — Improvements in ma
 chinery for making paper.        Aug. 24.-
      J. Penny and Joseph Kendall, of the county of Lancaster. —
 Making pill and other small boxes. Sept. 8. -
      W. Lister, of Paddington. — Improvements in a machine for
 separating corn or seeds from straw and chaff.           Sept. 21.
      J. and P. Taylor, of Manchester. — Improvements in a loom
 for weaving.      Sept. 21.                           ••
      W. E. Sheffield, of Somers Town. — Improvements in manu
 facturing copper and other metallic substances.           Sept. 21. <
      J. Dobbs, of Birmingham. Improvements in manufacturing
                                   —
 machines for cutting and gathering in grain.          Sept. 21.
      A. F. Didot, of Holborn. — Improvement in making printing
 types.      Oct. 3.
      A. Shaw of Leicester. — Apparatus for the better cutting of
 window, plate/ and sheet glass.         Oct. 3.
 - -   "                                                       W. Samp-

                      Meteorological Observations
     W. Sampson, of Acorn Street. — Improvements for raising wa
  ter.   Oct. 3.
     R. Philips, of Newbury, Berks. — Improvements in a plough.
  Oct. 3.
     J. Longhurst, of London. — An oeolian organ, or barrel organ
  with a self acting swell.      Nov. 1.
     J. Walters, of London. — Improvements in the construction
 and fastening of frame timbers or binds of ships, whether build
  ing or under repair.      Nov. 10.
     W. Howard, of Old Brentford. — Improved apparatus or gear
 for working ships pumps, also applicable to churning,                   &c.
  Nov. 10.
     L/JDidot, of Paddington. — Improvements in the means for
 illuminating apartments or places by the combustion of tallow or
 other inflammable materials.         Nov. 10.
     W. Benicke, of Deptford. — An improved method of manu
 facturing verdegris.       Nov. 12.
     E. Massey, of Coventry. — Chronometers and pocket watches.
 Nov. 17.
     H. Hall, of Golden Square. — Improved method of preparing
'and spinning hemp, flax, &c. communicated to him by a fo
 reigner residing abroad.       Nov. 17«
     R. Barlow, surgeon. — A machine or instrument called the
 hydrostatic self-blowing machine.          Nov. 22.
    Meteorological Observations made at Clapton in Hackney,
             from October 20,      to November       10, 1814.
     Oct. 20. — Much    citrus; gentle showers; fine golden sunset.
 Star-light night.
     Oct. 21. — Much cloud ; damp warm day.
     Oct. 22. — Misty morning; fair warm day with cirri and cu
muli ; a dry night, wind and rain, with falling Barometer. SW.
     Oct. 23. — Fair, though clouds of dense appearance, and
windy, clear cool night. Westerly wind.
    Oct. 24. — Fair, with cumulus, cumulostratus, &c. Cloudi
ness came on in the evening, followed by a rainy night. SW*.
    Oct. 25. — Small rain and mist during day; clear night, but
    * The manner in which the raven croaked
                                                yesterday indicated that rain
'would soon fall.   This bird has quite a different voice in rainy from what
it has before fine weather, and it becomes thereby a good presage of the
ntniospheric chances ; a circumstance noticed of old by Theophrastus, and
inserted by Aratus in bis Poem of Progliosticks.

                            made at Clhpton.                  ,
the light of the moon and stars was rather dim.          A small fire
balloon launched at eight o-clock, went for about two hundred
feet almost perpendicularly, then took first a slow course to S.
and then to E. when it ascended very high.             Thermometer
 11 P.M. 34°.
   Oct. 26. — Cloudy day, with small rain ; fine moon-light night,
with light flimsy confused cirrus. Cool air again to night.
 Therm, 1 1 o-clock 3S°.
    Oct. 27.— Fair.
   Oct. 28. — Fair morning ; damp day.       Wind westerly.
    Oct. 29.  —  Clear sky early, but misty below, then small rain-
By night confused masses of cloud moving before the moon-
rapidly, showed that though calm below, the upper current wan
pretty strong. Wind below soon followed.         At 1 1 P.M. Ther
mometer 49°.        Barometer 29-80.    W.
    Oct. 30. — Fair and warm ; much cirrus, and at night flimsy
cirrostrative clouds in the lobated form ; a corona lunaris at
time.     Thermometer 1 1 P.M. 44°. S.W.
    Oct. 31. — Clouded chiefly, and warm; gales at night.
    Nov. 1. —Clouded. Easterly wind.
   Nov. 2. — Clouded, with a little small rain. E.
    Nov. 3. — Cloudy morning ; the day cleared, and the night
was cold and clear.      Wind easterly.
    Nov. 4. — Some gentle showers; wind E ; rain at night, which
was dark.
    Nov. 5. — Small rain, with unpleasant cold air all day. Easterly
wind.
    Nov. 6. — Fair day; windy at night.
   Nov. 7-— Clouds and sun ; cool clearish night : lightning by
night.
    Nov.   8. — Fair morning; a smart thunder shower with hail
about   4  P.M.; wind became N.W. About six my brother saw
a large meteor      moving in an undulatory course and ending by
apparently going into a cloud.
    Nov. 10. — Electric air; much and various cirrus, &c; hazy
below.     Wind westerly.
     Clapton,
   Nov. io,   1814.                             Thomas    Forster.
                                                           METEORO

400                                         Meteorology.
                            meteorological                           table,
                       By   Mr. Carv, of the Strand,
                                     For November 1814.
                                                                       > <#
                    Thermometer.
                                                                      8*3 s
                                                       Hcteht of
 r.av, of
 Month.            H         Noon.
                                     lock
                                             Night.
                                                      tne Carom.
                                                                      g
                                                                      "
                                                                           t-H B
                                                                           6- o                Weather.
                                     o-c
                                     i
                                                        Inches.
                                                                      Miu          w
                   CO ^              ¦
                                                                      Ji
                                                                      Q    c -r
                                                                             —                            -
Oct.    27         45       51       46               29-86                24          Cloudy
        28         42       54       44                  •89               33          Fair
        29         44       49       43                  -68               0           Haiti
        30         43       48       44                  -88               15          Cloudy
        31         44       52       50                  •92               '8          Cloudy       t
Nov.               47       53       46                 -97                            Rain
                                                                           0 0
        4 3 e l
                   46       43       40               30 00                            Rain
                   41       47       36                  -01               31          Fair
                   34       46       42               29 90                22          Cloudy
                   42       42       38                  -78               0           Rain
            6 5             46       38                                                Fair
                   34                                    -89               18
                   35       46       46                  -72               24          Fair
            8 7                      33                  -32               20          Fair, thunder          in
                   37       47
                                                                                                the evening
            9      36       46       36                  -59               24          Fair
        10         32       44       32                  •90               30          Fair
       1
       1           32       46       45               30-12                27          Fair
        12         50       52       46               29-68                29          Fair
        13         46       46       40                  •98               20          Fair
        14         46       52       47                  •99               o           Small rain.
        15 49               52       43                  -72               10          Cloudy
        16 45               50       41                  •67               24          Stormy.
        17 42               51       46                  -91               22          Fair
        18 46               52       47                  -62               23          Fair
        19 46               53-      40                  -53               20          Fair
        20 35               40       37                   57               0
        21         37       39       30                  -62               15          Fair
        22         20       35       30                  •70               18          Fair
        23                  40       3C                  •72                           Foggy
                                                                           0 0 0
                   27
        24         29       38       40                  -80                           Foggy
       25          47       50       49                  •50                           Small rain.
                  N. B. The Barometer-s height                 is   taken at one o-clofk.

                             [    401          )
LXItl.   Reflections on the Inadequacy of the principal Hypotheses
         to account for the Phenomena              of'
                                               Electricity.
                      [Continued from page 350         ]
About     the year 1733, M. Du Faye, having electrified and re
pelled a  piece of gold-leaf     by
                                  means of excited glass, attempted
to repel it  still further with excited copal     but contrary to his
                                                    ;
expectation an attraction took place.         Surprised at this dis-°-
covery he persevered in his investigation, and observed that the
gold-leaf when repelled    by  glass was attracted as well        by
                                                             sealing-
wax, resin, or sulphur.
   From these                    he drew the following conclusion
" that there areexperiments
                                                                       :
                     two distinct kinds of electricity very different
from one another," one of which         found in glass, rock crystal,
                                          is
&c. the other in amber, copal, silk, and many other substances.
He supposed that each fluid repelled itself, while          attracted
                                                                 it
the other  ;   and affirmed that " from this principle one may
easily deduce the explanation of great number of phaenomena."
                                      a
Du Faye, however, after some time relinquished his opinion of
two electric fluids, and subscribed to that of Dr. Franklin.
   In 1757 Mr. Eeles commenced a series of communications,
which he affirms were transmitted to the Royal Society.             In
these papers the author revived Du Faye's discarded opinion of
two electric fluids, but modified and extended        so considerably
                                                           it
thatit   might be almost called      new hypothesis.
                                      a                 He applied     it
to the explanation of the principal phaenomena, thus bringing his
doctrines to   a  degree of perfection which Du Faye had not at
tempted.     From     some unknown causes         happened that Mr.
                                                   it
Eeles's papers were never published in the Transactions of the
Royal Society.
   In 1759 an account of some experiments            Mr. Symmep
                                                            by
was read at the Roval Societv, from which the author conceived
that the existence of two fluids was rendered probable. He sup
posed that these fluids    by contrasting and counteracting each
other produced the phaenomena of electricity; that they are
essentially different from each other    that they both exist com
                                               ;
bined in matter, and when in quantities sufficient to balance
each other that they do not manifest properties      but when one
                                                           ;
or other exceeds that, the accumulated power exerts its pro
perties.
   In 1767 appeared Priestley's History of Electricity, which
professed to give an account of the principal hypotheses that
had ever been promulgated.       Under the consideration of two
electric fluids, the Doctor adverts to the hvpothesis of Du
   Vol.44. No. 200. Dec. 1814.                     Cc          Faye

402 Reflections on the Inadequacy        of the principal       Hypotheses
 Faye as
            " new modelled by Mr. Symmer," and proposes " to do
 it more justice," as he expresses himself, " than has been done
 to it even by Mr. Symmer himself.          Doctor Priestley then pro
 ceeds with his improvement on Symmer, and it must be con
 fessed that the statement is precisely the same as that which
 Eeles affirms to have originated with him so many years before.
  .  In 1771 Eeles published his " Philosophical Essays ;" in the
 preface of which he makes some extraordinary charges against
 Dr. Priestley       He begins by noticing the improvement on Du
 Faye's hypothesis made by Symmer, in the following words :
 fe At first I really thought that this gentleman might have taken
hints from my letters*; but on more mature consideration, I think
 his own experiments might have led him to this doctrine."
 The justice of this acquittal is confirmed by the fact that Sym
mer did not pursue the application of his opinions to the ex
planation of phaenomena in the extended manner which had
been done by Eeles, and which might have been done so easily-
had Symmer acted dishonourably.             Eeles then commences his
charge against Priestley in the following words :
                                                           " In the year
 1767 Mr. Joseph Priestley published his History of Electricity,
in which he attempts to mend Mr. Symmer's theory by a sup
posed theory of his own.           But he so regularly supposed the
theory which 1 gave in the following tracts (long before Mr.
 Symmer or he thought of      it)  and used my terms and expressions,
 that
    I    cannot forbear thinking that he had better have brought
my experiments to prove       it  (since he produced none of his own)
and put my name to      it,  than to have leftita  supposititious theory
of his own. Whether in this he          is   oris not   a plain plagiary,
    must submit to the readers of both."           Alittle afterwards he
asks, " When any man has read these letters which were ad
I
dressed to the Royal Society of which Mr. Priestley               fellow,
                                                                    is
                                                                     a
must he not think that Mr. Priestley has copied his theory from
them ?" — " Had the Royal Society thought fit to publish these
letters,it   would have saved Mr. Priestley the trouble of so much
supposing; but   I       must take the liberty of supposing that Mr.
Priestley thought   I     was dead, and that these letters would never
come to light."         Mr. Eeles concludes his Essays with' the fol
lowing paragraph    :
                          " Mr. Priestley has artfully shut me out of
his History of Electricity; though all these papers were ad
dressed to the Royal Society, of which he           a member and
                                                   is                ;        it
appears    from  the  first of them,  that my attempt to show that the
electric powers were the cause of thunder was approved               thatby
Society, and   is   the only attempt of that kind which stands re
corded  in   the Philosophical Transactions."       .   -
                                                            .
          *   Sent to the Royal Society, but never published.
                                                                :   ?    .    In

                                                                     '
            to account for  the Thcenomena      of Electricity.        403
   In so delicate a question as this I shall venture upon no deci
sion.    To suppress the efforts of another's genius, to withhold
the tribute that was due to his merit, to plunder him of his well
earned honours, and appropriate them to one's self, were an of
fence disgraceful to human nature, debasing to science, and such
as it would be painful to lay to the charge of so distinguished a
philosopher.      When a train of ideas, with which a person haa
been once familiar, is forgotten, he may fall into the same ar
rangement of thought, should a few of his former ideas be casually
associated, and without a consciousness of ever having been si
milarly occupied.       The letters of Eeles might thus have been
read, and (as they were not published) forgotten by Priestley.
The outline of Symmer might have revived Eeles's opinions in
his mind, without suggesting the real source from whence they
were derived.      On the other hand, it is scarcely possible to sup
pose   that  Eeles would declare to the world that these doctrines
were his, that they were explicitly stated by him in letters in
the possession of the Royal Society, if the allegation were un
founded ; and especially as Dr. Priestley, who was so particularly
interested, had it in his power to ascertain, whether letters con
taining such doctrines had been really received, and to con
tradict the statement if untrue.         From this view of the subject
it will probably appear, that I have done no more than justice
in attributing this theory to Mr. Eeles.
                          Hypothesis   of Eeles.
   1 . There are two different kinds of fluid called electrical, which
naturally coexist in all bodies, and which while in this state ex
ert no sensible properties.
   2. The active state of the fluids is that of separation.        While
separate,     each power repels   the   similar  kind, but  attracts   that
which is dissimilar.       If the dissimilar powers, while obeying
their attractive forces, can meet in equal proportions, they con
dense each other into the form of flame.          The powers after this
condensation occupy an almost insensible compass, and are said
to be in a quiescent state (as in 1).
   3. The substance of electrics is pervious to each power.
   4. Bodies are said to be electrified when the powers are se
parated in them.        Thus an excited electric, having received
from the rubber as much of one kind as it gave of the other, is
electrified in one state, while the rubber is in a contrary state.
Such an excited electric will produce on another part of itself,
of on a different body, effects analogous to those of the rubber.
   1 . Concerning the first principle, Dr. Priestley conceives that
the supposition of two fluids " is far from being disagreeable to
the analogy of nature, which abounds with affinities, and in
                                   C  c 2                          which

  404 Reflections on the Inadequacy         of the principal Hypotheses
  which we see innumerable cases of substances formed, as it were
  to unite with and counteract one another.                Here likewiser
  agreeable to the theory of two electric fluids, while those sub
  stances are in union, we see nothing of their separate and pe
  culiar powers, though -they be ever so remarkable.           What, for
  instance, do we see of the striking properties         of the  acid and
  alkali while they are united in a neutral salt ?"
      The analogy, however, of acid and alkali with positive and
  negative electricity is not just.      The positive and negative states
  are in all respects the same with respect to themselves and to
  all other matter, although different with regard to each other.
   But no two bodies can be more dissimilar in their properties
   than acids and alkalies : they are in fact completely opposed to
   each other.      It therefore ill accords with our conception of the
   simplicity of Nature's operations to suppose two fluids of pre
   cisely the same effects in creation, and only different when op
   posed to each other.       There is not even one evidence adduced
   in favour of the supposition ; and, as shall be seen, it has no
   claims to admission on account of its applicability to the ex
   planation of phaenomena.
      £. The first part of the second principle, namely, that each
   power while separate repels a similar power, but attracts that
   which is dissimilar, carries with it an appearance of probability,
   when the action of similarly and differently electrified bodies on
   each other is considered, and if the existence of two fluids be
-
   admitted.      This principle is however encumbered with a variety
   of difficulties.    Thus, if a pith -ball suspended by silk be electri
   fied, and brought near an unelectrified ball suspended in the
   same manner, the latter is attracted, and after contact is re
   pelled.    Mr. Eeles's hypothesis explains this by the supposition
   that the unelectrified ball contained its two different fluids in
   combination, or in the state in which they exist in all bodies ;
   that the electrified ball had only one of its powers, the other
   having been abstracted (in a manner that shall be shown here
   after) during its electrization : that when the latter ball was ap
   proached, its power attracted the contrary power in the un
   electrified body, and repelled the similar power, and hence the
   attraction and repulsion.        Here the order of the phaenomena
   exists only in the order of the words; for although the word
   ''attraction" precede the word " repulsion," yet the real attraa-
   tion and repulsion of the opposite and similar powers of the
*
   balls being coincident, they should counteract each other, and
   the balls should remain at rest; which is contrary to fact. There
   seems but one way of avoiding this inference, which is so un
   favourable to the hypothesis, namely, by supposing attraction
   to be a power superior to repulsion.            But this supposition is
                                                                 rendered

            to account for the Phcenomena             of Electricity.       405
rendered inadmissible by other inferences that may be drawn.
Thus, in charging a phial, the quantity of natural electricity tq be
changed,     is,   as Mr. Eeles supposes, equal on both sides. The re
sistance to the change on each side the attraction of dissimilar
                                                 is                              '
powers  :     the dissimilar powers combined             the natural state
                                                         in
being    on  each    side equal in quantity and in force of combination-,
the resistance on both sides must be the same.               The quantities
on one side attracted, and on the other repelled, are equal.
Now the resistances and quantities attracted and repelled being
equal, it    follows that the separate forces of attraction and re
pulsion are equal.          This will become more evident when the
theory    of  charging    the Leyden phial comes to be examined.
    The remaining part of this principle maintains, that when the
contrary powers meet in equal proportions, they condense each
other in the form of flame, and no longer display sensible pro
perties.       Previously to the application of this to the Leyden
phial, it    will be necessary to consider the quantity of each fluid
on the surfaces of the glass. The phial in its natural state con
tains an equal quantity of each power on its surfaces, and each
surface contains equal quantities of both powers.               During the
process of charging, the action of the electric machine                   tois
withdraw from the inside one of the natural quantities of either
fluid, and to communicate an equal quantity of                  power con
                                                                a
trary to what was abstracted, but similar to what remained of
the natural portion after the abstraction.            Hence, when      phial
                                                                        a
is  charged     in the  usual manner   before  the negative power, half of
the whole sensible charge must be thrown in from the conductor,
before the negative power can be all drawn out.
     From the principle under consideration,             appears that con
                                                         it
trary powers       in  equal proportions destroy each others properties.
Every positive spark thrown from the conductor into the phial
must combine with an equal quantity of negative electricity de
rived from the natural combination, and thus the properties of
 the spark thrown in should be destroyed or suspended.                  Yet
experience proves, that       if any quantity of positive electricity, how
 small soever, be thrown into            phial, the surface receiving
                                         a                                       it
will evince unquestionable indications of being positively elec
 trified.
     3. Concerning the third principle Mr. Eeles observes, that
 Franklin supposes glass to be impervious to the electric power
 he adds, " this may be confuted
                                                                                 :
                                         byso easy experiments that     Iam
 surprised that Mr. Franklin could have missed              them.    Take        a
 piece of bog down, suspend         it    silk, then take
                                         by                   pane of clean
                                                               a
 sash-glass, and warm         it, and let the down hang          the side of
                                                                   by
it;    then bring an excited electric to the other side of the glass,
 and the down shall     fly   off perfectly electrified. — This shows that
                                     C       c3                              th.

 406 Reflections on the Inadequacy
                                           of the principal   Hypotheses
  the powers pass entire through the glass."               But this experi
  ment does not prove its object, inasmuch as it is equally ex
  plained by the hypothesis of Franklin : and of the latter mode
  of explanation Mr. Eeles does not seem to have been aware.
  If positive electricity be thrown on one surface of the glass,
  Franklin supposes that it repels a similar quantity from the
  opposite side ; this portion issuing from the glass will enter sur
  rounding bodies, and cause them to be repelled.             But it is diffi
  cult to understand what advantage can arise to the hypothesis
  in question, by the supposition of permeability: on the contrary,
  it seems to offer an insuperable objection to the opinions con
  ceived in the following principle.
     4. The chief phaenomenon to be accounted for by this part of
  the hypothesis is the charging of the Leyden phial.             This Mr.
  Eeles   states  to be effected   in the following  manner   : The  electri
                                "
  city thrown into the jar will repel the power of the same kind
  from the opposite side of the glass, and attract the different
 power from the non-electrics; (i.e. the connection with the
 ground.)" The explanation is more circumstantial in the folJ
 lowing passage :
                        " When a spark of the vitreous power is taken
 into the bottle, an equal quantity of the resinous power goes
 from the inside of the bottle to the conductor ; by which means
 the bottle is electrified with the vitreous power: but when you
 apply a non-electric to the outside of the bottle, part of the
 vitreous power goes to the non- electric           e. the communication
                                                     (i.
 with the- ground) in exchange for an equal quantity of the re
 sinous power drawn to the outside of the bottle, which resinous
 power  is    held there    by the attraction of the vitreous power on
 the inside    of the  bottle."
     If then the contrary powers are situate on each surface of the
 charged phial, and    if   they strongly attract each other through its
 substance, why do they not pass through        it and combine, since Mr.
 Eeles supposes that glass       ispermeable to each kind of electricity  ?
     But passing this objection,      itwill be found that his manner of
explaining     the   charging   of  the phial   isencumbered with much
improbability and difficulty.         Mr. Eeles states that " the electric
powers are never rendered visible except in their passing from
one body to another,        in   opposition to each other, when they
condense each other into the form of flame."                In charging  it
is  therefore manifest, that as long as sparks are seen between the
conductor and the ball of the phial,       it   isan infallible indication
that the two powers are passing in opposition to each other; the
negative power    is   passing from the inside towards the conductor,
and the positive from the conductor into the phial. These two
powers necessarily meet and " condense each other into the form
of flame :" they return to the natural state, "and therefore do
                                                                       not

            to account for  the Phcenomena     of Electricity.       407
  not exert any sensible action."     If sparks be still thrown in from
  the conductor, the phial will soon be charged, and at length will
  receive no more.     According to the hypothesis the sparks in
 dicate that the opposite powers are destroying each other, and
 their cessation shows the complete abstraction of the negative
 power from the fluid natural to the phial.      The phial ought now
 to contain no more than the positive part of the natural quan
 tity, the negative having been destroyed : so that, when fully
 charged, it contains but half the quantity that it does when not
 charged.     This, which seems to be a fairly deduced consequence
 from some of the principles of the hypothesis, is not only im
 probable as to fact, but even irreconcileable to Mr. Eeles's opi
 nion, for he conceives that the charged phial contains twice the
 quantity of positive electricity when charged.                /
    Applying the same arguments to the. outside of the phial, the
question occurs, How can positive electricity received on the in
side from the conductor be able to effect a continual repulsion
 of positive from the outside of the phial, when, after being sa
 turated by the negative power derived from the inside, it must
 have lost the power of repulsion ? The question? becomes stil
less answerable, when it is considered that the positive power on
the outer surface was firmly maintained in its place by the attrac
tion of the negative electricity with which it naturally coexisted.
    But even if the positive power could be repelled from the
outside, it must be condensed and its properties destroyed by
the negative electricity attracted by the opposite power on the
inside.    Therefore but half the natural quantity can remain on
the outside when the phial is fully charged, and nothing addi
tional could be acquired.
    The principal objection and the last now remains to be stated.
'Mr. Eeles supposes that positive and negative electrics exist
combined, constituting the natural state of all bodies.          He has
endowed both fluids with the powers of attraction and repulsion :
and he has given data from whence may be inferred an equality
of force in the powers of attraction and repulsion. Yet in his
explanation of theLeyden phial, he supposes that when a quan
tity of one power is thrown on one surface, it repels an equal
quantity of the same power from the opposite surface, a contrary
power supplying its place.      If the two electrics have so great an
attraction, why   did  the power thrown in on one side overcome
the attraction of the similar to the contrary power naturally co
existing on the other side ?       Why should not the natural com
bination remain unaltered, when it was maintained by a force
equal to that which endeavoured to effect a separation of its
component electricities ?     No more should an additional quan
tity of the positive fluid separate the positive from the negative
                                Cc4                                fluid

408             Memoir on various Combinations of Gold.
fluid of another portion, than a salt should be decomposed by a
simple addition of its own acid or base.           In fine, it is not philo
sophical to suppose that either fluid can displace another por
tion of itself, without having any more power to do so, than the
displaced fluid had to resist such a change.
     In defence of this principle it might be urged, that the superior
power of the sparks thrown into the phial from the conductor
depends on their superior intensity.            But beside a great many
 other arguments that might be used, it must be observed that
 the intensity of the spark which enters the inside, and that of
 the spark which leaves the outside, are supposed to be equal.
                                   Conclusion,
      I   have   concluded my statement of the principal objections
 which      I  considered   as applying to the doctrines of electricity at
 present      received.    Upon   either of the two preceding hypotheses
 are     founded    all the  explanations that have since been given of
  electrical or Galvanic phaenomena : and upon these also depend
  the calculations that have been made by the celebrated philo
  sophers Cavendish and ^Epinus. The task which I endeavoured
  to accomplish was, to investigate whether or not the fundamental
  principles of either of these systems would in a reasonable de-»
  gree be consistent with themselves and with phaenomena; con
  ceiving, if they did not, that calculation was in vain, and that
  all applications' of them to modern discoveries ended but in de^
  ception.       Hypotheses are perhaps on the whole of no use: ex
  perimental researches seem to be rather encumbered than assisted
  by them : and it is absurd that they should be retained when
   they are contradicted by the facts which ihey were intended to
   explain,      It were more conducive to improvement to relinquish
   guch suppositions and deceptive knowledge, and to banish with*-
   out respect to authority every thing that deviates from the stan-?
   dard of reason and experiment.
            LXIV. Memoir        on various    Combinations    of Gold.
                              By M, Obercampe*.
    A lthough        gold has long been a favourable object of chemical
    research, yet its properties are perhaps as little known as those
    of any other metal. Bergman and Lewis were the first who
    threw some light on its history.        Afterwards Proust, and latterly
    Vauquelin, furnished new observations on this subject, but they
    ptill left much to be desired.          In fact, it was still doubtful
    \yhether gold was susceptible of being combined with sulphur 5
                             * Awaks   dc Chimic, No. 239,
                                                                          mi

             Memoir        on various Combinations                of Gold.           409
and chemists were ignorant whether it forms several oxides, of
the manner of preparing them, of the quantity of oxygen that
enters into them, and of the various circumstances that accompany'
the precipitations of this metal.   To solve these questions is the
principal object of this memoir, which may be serviceable, as
preparations of gold appear to be coming into use in medicine.
                            Dissolution           of Gold.
   The best solvents of gold are nitro-muriatic acid and oxy-
muriatic acid.    M. Proust has observed that muriatic acid will,
in time, also dissolve      it,
                              heat be employed, especially
                                  if                               be           if
                                                                                 it
previously well divided, as            by
                                 precipitation                    by
                                                    sulphate of iron
at a minimum.      Nitric acid has but little action on this metal                     :
nitro-muriatic acid     generally employed: but
                       is                             prefer the oxy-
                                                                   I
muriatic acid, because      gives
                              it      more   pure solution, and with
                                             a
less redundance of acid.           1   have remarked that when the solu
tion has been exposed to heat, to render      less acid, that its
                                                             it
golden yellow colour has passed to      deep tint of  a brownish            a
red, and that      retains this colour, though proportionality
                  it
weakened, when diluted with water.     The nitro-muriatic solu
tion, when deprived of the excess of acid                    by
                                             evaporating to dry
ness, presents the same   result  which  proves that the orange
                                            ;
yellow colour of solutions of gold      owing to excess of acid.
                                                      is
By saturating them with potash or soda they become red, as
when exposed to heat.
               Precipitation           of   Gold      by   Hydrogen.
  If   a stream of hydrogen    gas be made to pass for some time
through  a diluted solution of muriate of gold,       assumes    fine
                                                                   it            a
purple-red  colour like that  of wine,  without  forming  any preci
pitate.  I  left some of this for      long time in a glass vessel
                                                 a
hermetically closed.    No sensible change took place in the co
lour, but an extremely light precipitate was formed at the bot
tom of the vessel, which at first appeared purple, but when put
into water exhibited that blue tinge peculiar to -gold held in sus
pension in a metallic state.      The liquid exposed to heat be
came again yellow      metallic traces formed on the surface, and
                       ;
the capsule took a violet colour, having all the metallic brilliancy.
 The action of muriatic acid did not affect this appearance but                  ;
jiitro-muriatic acid destroyed       speedily, and had then all the
                                            it
characters of solution of gold.
              a
         Precipitation      of    Gold      by   sulphuretted Hydrogen.
  A   current of sulphuretted hydrogen gas passed through a so
lution of gold immediately renders    turbid, and black preci
                                                     it                 a
pitate  is quickly formed, which    perfectly homogeneous, and
                                                 is
                                                        exhibits

    410           Memoir on various Comlinations of Gold.
    exhibits no metallic particles.       Some consider this as a simple
   mixture of sulphur and gold ; but I think it should be held as
    a true combination ; for it has a black colour, never produced by a
   simple mixture of sulphur and gold ; and when agitated in water
   the deposit is homogeneous, which would not be the case with
   a mere mixture, from which the gold, being the heaviest, would
   precipitate first.    The combination, however, is but slight, and
   the sulphur is easily separated by heat.          2-963 grammes of this
   sulphuret, exposed to a red heat, left 2-386 gr. of gold ; whence
    it follows that 100 parts of gold combine with 24-39 of sulphur;
   or that 100 parts of the sulphuret contain gold 80-39, and sul
   phur 19-61 = 100.         It is possible that this sulphuret, though
   dried with care, may yet contain a minute portion of water,
   which will lessen the proportion of sulphur.               Bucholz states
    the proportions in this sulphuret, at gold S2 and sulphur IS.
        The alkaline hydro-sulphurets produce, in muriate of gold, a
   black precipitate perfectly similar to that from sulphuretted
   hydrogen ; but when they are more or less sulphuretted,                the
   precipitate    contains   more   or less sulphur  in excess,  and the  co-
1
   lour is more or less deep.
       Hydro-sulphuret of potash dissolves sulphuret of gold entirely,
   and gives it a reddish-yellow colour.         By the aid of heat it can
   dissolve more.      Acids poured into this solution cause the sul
   phuret to reappear, by saturating the potash and disengaging
  the sulphuretted hydrogen.
       Sulphuret of gold treated with potash loses its colour and
  becomes yellow.        A portion is dissolved, yielding a solution less
  deeply coloured than that of which I have been speaking, and
  which with the acids exhibits the same phaenomenon.               The yel
  low residue does not dissolve in muriatic acid, but takes a brown
  colour : with nitro-muriatic acid a solution is effected.
       Gold is the only metal which does not dissolve in the hydro-
  sulphurets ; but by the addition of sulphur and the aid of heat
  its solution is effected, though with more difficulty than that of
  sulphuret of gold.       This seems to prove that alkaline sulphurets
  dissolve gold only in proportion as it is in a state of sulphuret,
  pr as they themselves are very much sulphuretted.
            Precipitation of Gold hy phosphoretted Hydrogen.
       The action of this gas on muriate of gold is very variable-:
  gold or phosphoret may be obtained at will.              When a current
  of this gas is passed through a dilute solution of gold, the first
  portions of phosphoretted hydrogen give to the solution a brown
  cotoury which soon changes to a deep purple.              If the operation
  be stopt at this point, a yellow-brown
                                                precipitate forms, which is
  {he   gold  in a  metallic  state, and   the yellow liquid is a solution
                                                                           of

             Memoir    on various  Comlinalions of Gold;           41 1
of gold, mixed with phosphoric           acid.    A second portion of
phosphoretted hydrogen,        not  sufficient  to precipitate all the
metal, would again gire      a similar  result.
    But if the precipitate be not suffered to form, and the gas be
still passed through the liquid, the colour becomes blackish, and
a black precipitate is formed which does not appear to contain
gold in a metallic state. This precipitate with nitro-muriatic
acid yields a solution of gold and of phosphoric acid ; exposed
to heat it inflames, and leaves a residue of metallic gold, retaining,
probably, a little phosphorus.         When this precipitate has all
subsided the liquid is left colourless, and contains only muriatic
and phosphoric acids.        This precipitate should be considered as
a true phosphuret, since it has a colour never obtained by mix
ing gold and phosphorus; when agitated in water, is always
homogeneous ; when heated in water, at a temperature which
would melt phosphorus, none of this substance is separated in
globules ; and lastly, when exposed for days to the atmosphere,
gives no white fumes and does not appear to change.
    To assure myself by other means of what took place in this
case, I poured a very small quantity of muriate of gold into water
charged with phosphoretted hydrogen : the water assumed a
blackish colour, like that of the liquid from which I obtained
phosphorus.        Into muriate of gold, on the other hand, I poured
phosphoretted hydrogen water, leaving an excess of muriate :
 the liquid took a fine purple colour, like that from which gold
 was precipitated in a metallic state.
    Phosphuret of gold, like phosphorus, has the property of pre
 cipitating the gold of its solutions in a metallic state.
     It results from these experiments, that while any gold remains
 in solution, the phosphoretted hydrogen will precipitate it only
 in a metallic state ; but that, in the course of the operation,
 this gold acting in a state of suspension, upon the phosphoretted
 hydrogen, passes to the state of phosphoret, and gives a preci
 pitate entirely homogeneous.
                 Precipitation  of Gold    by the Alkalies.
     The phaenomena in precipitating solutions of gold by the al
  kalies are so different, according to the circumstances under
  which they afe effected, that it is not surprising that chemists
  should differ in their opinions on the oxides of this metal.
     Proust says that potash precipitates from the solution of gold
  a yellow powder, which is violet when operated on in a large
  quantity of water, but black when washed : excess of alkali, sa
  turation, the heat of ebullition, are none of them sufficient, he
  says, to render him master of this preparation : this precipitate
                                                               washed,

  412           Memoir   on various Combinations     of Gold.
  washed, and dried by the gentlest heat, is nothing more than a.
  mixture of oxide and metallic gold.
      Thomson, quoting Bergman, says that potash forms in the
  solution of gold a precipitate of a yellowish-brown       colour, ap
  proaching sometimes to black, which       is insipid, and insoluble in
  water.
      Vauquelin announces that neither alkalies nor carbonate of
  potash form precipitates in a solution of gold, cold, but that by
  the aid of heat they precipitate reddish flakes, which he consi-
  tlers as pure oxide of gold, and to which he attributes the pro
  perty of being soluble in water, and of having a very sensible
  metallic styptic taste.
       I have also obtained, by alkalies, precipitates of very variable
  colours, according to the different circumstances which I shall
   describe.
       1. Having poured muriate of gold into a solution of potash,
   leaving the latter in excess, an inconsiderable precipitate, of a
   blackish-gray colour, was produced. The liquid exposed to a
   moderate heat deposited a similar precipitate, but still retained
   a quantity of gold in solution.
       2. With less excess of potash a yellow precipitate was formed,
   which I separated from the liquid, which was turbid and blackish.
   The liquid, when left to itself, deposited a blackish powder si
   milar to that of No. 1 .
       3. Another experiment produced an orange-yellow precipi
   tate.    The liquid, perfectly clear, was of a fine yellow colour,
   bordering on red : it was alkaline, but less so than the two pre
   ceding.     Exposed to a moderate heat, it gave a yellow precipi
   tate of a shade a little more red than the other.
       4. I poured a concentrated solution of potash into muriate
                                                                          '
   of gold, taking care to stop at the point of saturation, and even
   to leave a slight excess of the muriate.         A yellow precipitate
    was formed, which I separated. By adding to the liquid a great
i   excess of alkali, I procured a brown-black precipitate.
        Lastly: I have, at will, produced either yellow or black pre
    cipitates with the same solution.       When excess of alkali is
    avoided, or a very slight excess is used, the precipitate is yellow,
    inclining more or less to orange : when the potash is in great
    excess, it is black.    In both cases the clear liquid when sub
    mitted to heat forms yellow or black precipitates according to
    circumstances.
        The variable colour of these precipitates shows that they are
    not identical : let us inquire into the cause of these differences.
        Presuming from analogy that the differences may be owing to
    acid retained in combination, as in most other metallic pre
                                                               parations,

                 Memoir     on various      Cmnlinalions              of Gold.                413
parations,       I   began by washing them, until the water by the test
of nitrate of silver ceased to indicate any trace of muriatic acid.
I then treated them with pure potash, and with the aid of heat
I remarked, that the yellow precipitate gradually assumed a
deeper tint, and became at last a brown black, while precipitates
of this colour underwent no change. By saturating the potash
with nitric acid in excess, and pouring nitrate of silver into                                it,   a
very sensible precipitate of muriate of silver was formed in the
alkalies with which the yellow precipitates had been treated                                        ;
but that with which the black precipitates had been treated gave
no indication of muriatic acid.
   From these experiments         evident, that the precipitates
                                      it   is                                                     by
potash owe their difference of colour, to the greater or less quan
tity of acid retained in combination.      The yellow precipitates
retaining    certain quantity of acid ought, therefore, to be con
                 a
sidered as true salts with excess of acid, which excess probably
gives them the solubility and styptic taste observed     Vauquelin.             by
The black precipitates, which may be considered as a true oxide
of gold, appear to have neither of these properties.
    Barytes added in excess to a solution of gold by oxy-muriatie
acid, produces      pale-yellow precipitate, variable in intensity,
                        a
according to the quantity of alkali      still shows the presence of
                                                     :   it
muriatic acid.     When heated the precipitate swells, becomes
gray; and lastly, brown black, like that procured        potash                  by           :   it
is now free from acid.      The liquor still contains gold in solu
tion.                                                                                     ,
     Soda, strontian and lime produce analogous results.
   The precipitates, whether from solutions in nitro-muriatic or
in oxy-muriatic acid, arc always of the same nature when brought
to the black colour    alkalies.byTherefore, in these various cir
cumstances the brown black oxide obtained                             is   identical.             ,
                                Of the    Oxide          of   Gold.
   Having analysed this oxide       heat, and measured with care
                                                by
the oxygen gas evolved,       resulted from one experiment thai
                                     it
 100 parts of gold take 9-82 of oxygen: a second experiment
gave 10-21     and
                 ;     third 10-60.
                            a           The mean of the three                                       is
10-01; so that 100 parts of the oxide are composed of gold 90-9,
and oxygen 9-10.
   These results agree with Bergman's, who states that 100 parts
of gold take 10 of oxygen; but they differ from others. Proust's
results were variable    in one operation 100 of gold took 8-57 of
                                :
oxygen    in second,
             ;   a    the  same proportion of gold took    of oxy^                 3  1
gen    and Thomson announces, in his Appendix, that 100 parts
         ;
of gold alwavs combine with of oxygen,'
                                          8 or with some multiple
-
     .                                                                                            of

  414           Memoir on various Combinations       of Gold.
  of this number.       These    differences 'may have proceeded    from
  differences in the degree of purity of the precipitate.
                            Triple Salts   of Gold.
      The precipitation by alkalies affords different results according
  to the excess of acid in the solution.        Even when we employ a
, solution as little acid as possible, alkalies form precipitates in it
  cold ; but even assisted by heat the precipitation is not com
  plete.    If the solution be very acid, the precipitate cannot be
  obtained cold, nor even hot, but in small quantity.            This is
  easily explained.      All alkalies possess the property of forming,
  with the oxide, very soluble triple salts. As a proof of this : —
  if we take a solution slightly acid, from which, consequently,
  we may by alkalies precipitate oxide, cold, and add to it a suf
  ficient quantity of muriate of potash, or of soda, or of barytes,
  or strontian, or lime, the precipitates will no longer be obtain
  able.    Even ammonia, which precipitates gold in the fulminat
  ing powder, does not form it in a solution to which a sufficient
  quantity has been added of muriate of ammonia.
      These very soluble triple salts, though not deliquescent, cry
  stallize with difficulty ; nor does the form of the alkaline salts
  seem sensibly altered by the muriate of gold combined with
  them.
      Though any of the alkalies will precipitate the oxide of gold,
  with barytes the precipitate is most abundant.
     Precipitation    of Gold  by  Muriate ef Tin at   the  Minimum.
      Precipitates by muriate of tin differ much according to cir
  cumstances.       When very concentrated solutions of muriate of
  gold   and  muriate  of tin at the minimum are mixed, in whatever
  proportion,    the precipitate is gold in a metallic state ; but when
  the proportion of tin is excessive the precipitate is blackish : and
  on the contrary, when these solutions are mixed, diluted with
  water, the precipitates are purple, but inclining more to violet
  when the quantity of muriate of tin is more considerable — a cir
  cumstance which also causes in the precipitate a greater pro
  portion of oxide of tin. These different shades are rendered
  still more sensible by applying them on porcelain : the preci
  pitates formed when muriate of gold predominates, give a shade
  more or less rosy ; those from mixtures in which muriate of tin
  predominates give a colour bordering on violet.
     These precipitates are of a very variable nature.       M. Proust,
  by treating    that  which   he   tried with very weak  nitro-muriatic
  acid, concluded that it was composed of oxide of tin at the
  minimum 76, and gold in a metallic state 24.             By employing
                                   z                                  the

 Observations respecting the natural Production of 'Saltpetre. 415
the same method of analysis, I found in the very violet preci
pitate obtained by using an excess of muriate of tin, oxide of
tin 60-18, and gold 39-82 ; and in precipitate of a fine purple,
made with excess of muriate of gold, I found oxide of tin 201S8,
and gold 79-42.
   From these experiments it results that precipitates by muriate
of tin are very variable, since, when the solutions are concert*,
trated, the gold is always thrown down in the metallic state ; and
that, when the solutions are diluted, the difference in their pro
portions occasions precipitates equally variable in their composi
tion and properties.     In what state is the gold found in them ?
It is difficult to answer this question ; but every thing tends to
show, that if it is not entirely in a metallic state, as Proust thinks,
there can remain in it only a minute proportion of oxygen.
LXV.   Observations respecting the natural Production of Salt
  petre on the Walls of siiblerraneous and other Buildings.
  By John Kidd, M.D. Professor of Chemistry at Oxford.
  Communicated by William Hyde Wollaston, M.D. Sec.
   E.S.*
Although       the following observations afford no positive evi
dence of the source of that saline efflorescence which is so fre
quently seen on the walls of subterraneous and other buildings,
and which, as consisting principally if not entirely of common
nitre, long since gave rise to the namef by which that salt is
most commonly known ; yet as tending to throw some light on
a very obscure part of natural history, they will not, perhaps, be
unacceptable to this honourable and learned Society.
   There can be no doubt that the production of saltpetre or
nitre, in the situations above alluded to, had been observed long
before there existed any general inducement to collect it from
those sources ; but. after the invention and subsequent extensive
employment of gunpowder, it became an object not only to
search out every natural source of the principal ingredient of
that important compound, but also to investigate the circum
stances of its production ; for the purpose either of accelerating
the natural process, or of imitating it by artificial means.
   The usual and almost exclusive occurrence of saltpetre on
walls constructed of limestone, and in situations exposed to ani
mal and vegetable effluvia, in all probability led to the empirical
practice of heaping together the mortar and refuse of old build-
        *   From the Philosophical Transactions for 1814, part   ii.
       t    Saltpetre (Sal Petra.)
                                                                       ings

416                   Observatlons respecting
  ihgs with putrescent animal and vegetable matter ; from a mix
  ture of which kind, after exposure for a sufficient length of time
  to the action of the air, a quantity of nitre may usually be ob
  tained by lixiviation: but it would be a question of mere curio
  sity, on this occasion at least, to investigate the origin of the
  practice.    The intention of the present paper is to state the re
 sult of a series of observations made during the last year, on the
  connexion that exists between the natural production of nitre
  and the state of the atmosphere.        In detailing these observa
  tions, it will be convenient to give previously a description of the
 laboratory of the Ashmole Museum, in which building they were
 principally made: nor shall I be afraid of being thought too
  minute in this description, or in any other part of the following
  detail, by those at least who know the precision that is requisite
  in every induction, which like the present rests on phaenomena
  of an obscure and equivocal nature.
     The Ashmole Museum, which was built by Sir C. Wren in
 the reign of Charles the Second, is an insulated building, con
 structed entirely of calcareous freestone, and consisting of three
 stories.    The lowermost of these stories was originally designed
  for, and has constantly been used as, a chemical laboratory.
     The pavement of the laboratory, on its eastern- northern, and
  western sides, is about nine feet below the level of the street in
 which the Museum stands ; on its southern side it is on the
 same level with an area, about ten feet in breadth, which in
 part occupies the site of the ditch of the old town, and insulates
 a quadrangular projecting part of the whole building of the
 Museum.        The laboratory itself is a single room sixty feet in
 length from east to west, and twenty-five in breadth ; having an
 arched stone ceiling, the centre of which is seventeen feet above
 the level of the pavement.       The walls of this room, which are
 nearly three feet in thickness, are constructed of squared cal
 careous freestone, which I have reason to believe was dug from
 a quarry near Burford, and is technically called Windrush stone,
 from the river of the same name.        There are four windows in
 the upper part of the north side of the laboratory, formed in the
 curve of the arched ceiling ; the dimensions of each of which
 are five feet by four and a half.
     There is no window either on the eastern or western side of
the laboratory.
     On the south side there are two windows, one at each ex
tremity, looking into the area above described ; and these win
dows are placed at the usual distance from the ground, that      is,.
about three feet :     and all that part of the south side interme
diate to these two windows separates the laboratory from the
                                                     quadrangular

                 the natural Production   of Saltpetre.           417
 quadrangular projecting part of the whole building of the Mu
 seum already mentioned.
    The saline efflorescence takes place most copiously on the
 north wall, and it occurs on various parts of it from nearly the
 level of the pavement to within three or four feet of the centre
 of the arched ceiling.    It takes place also, though not so abun
dantly, on the east and west walls ; and also at the eastern and
western extremity of the south wall ; but it is worth noticing,
that I have never seen it on that part of the south wall which is
 common to the laboratory and the attached projecting building
of the Museum.       It is true that there are chimneys in this wall
connected with fires that are lighted daily ; but this circum
stance does not seem sufficient to account for the absence of the
nitre, because its formation takes place in another part of the
laboratory equally near a chimney, and in which, from being in
closed, the temperature of the air is always considerably higher.
    It is also worth noticing, that between the highest and lowest
points of its appearance in every part of the building there are
intercepted spaces entirely and always free from the least depo
sition.
    I may here mention that the occasional formation of nitre is
ohservable in many other buildings and parts of Oxford, besides
the laboratory of the Ashmole Museum ; as on the wall, called
Long Wall, which bounds the park of Magdalene College to the
west — on the exterior surface of the south wall of the Theatre —
on the exterior surface of the three walls of the quadrangular
projecting part of the Ashmole Museum — very abundantly on
the inclined base of the windows of the Examination School,
looking to the north — and also very abundantly on the west side
of the wall, which separates the square of the Schools from the
arched way leading from thence to the Theatre and Convocation
House.
    It has been observed repeatedly, that the presence of lime is
necessary to the natural production of saltpetre ; and in all the
foregoing instances the stone on which the saline efflorescence
takes place is the common limestone of Oxfordshire.            I have
only once observed its formation     on the  surface of a brick  wall :
but in that instance the substance of those bricks on which the
nitre appeared had crumbled away to some depth ; and if this
destruction of their texture be owing to the presence of an un
usual proportion of lime in the clay of which they are made, (a
supposition not improbable, since many parts of the stratum of
clay from which bricks in this neighbourhood are made do con
tain an unusual proportion of lime), the reason of the exception
in the case of this brick wall will correspond with the truth of
the general observation above stated.
    Vol. 44. No. 200. Dec. 1 814.          D d                    The

418                    Observations respecting
   The following circumstance     is particularly deserving of notice'.
A part of the north wall of the laboratory, on which saltpetre
usually effloresced, having been covered with wainscot some
months since, and the wainscot having been painted with com
mon white paint, I was surprised after a time in observing an
efflorescence on particular parts of the paint, similar to what
might have been expected on the wall itself.          Where this ef
florescence had taken place the paint was loosened from the
wainscot, and might be readily peeled off in small flakes.        The
saline particles of which this efflorescence consisted I at first
supposed to be nitrate of lead ; but upon examination in various
ways no trace of lead could be found in them, and they exhi
bited the principal characters of common nitre : they deflagrated,
for instance, with charcoal, leaving a deliquescent alkaline re
siduum.     Many weeks have elapsed since that saline efflores
cence was brushed off, but I have not yet observed any renewal
 of it.
    Though the production of saltpetre had been pointed out to
me in the laboratory of the Ashmole Museum as long since as
the year 1802, 1 was prevented by many circumstances from ob
serving witl)        degree of regularity or precision the phaeno
mena of this natural process previously to the commencement
 of last year; about which time having carefully brushed away
the whole of the saline efflorescence from a part of the north
wall situated below the level of the street, and very imperfectly
exposed to the light, I was surprised by the fact of its quick re
appearance.      It was brushed away at the end of January ; but
within three~ days it had again effloresced in sufficient quantity
to present that appearance of hoar frost, or down, or mould,
which is very characteristic of the manner in which naturally
formed saltpetre is often accumulated; and which a person,
utterly incapable of judging of the real nature of the substance,
described at the time by the term " damp."
    I was still more surprised, however, in observing after a few
days, that the quantity of the saltpetre was apparently very much
diminished; and that at the end of eight or ten days there was
scarcely any appearance of it remaining : though there was no
reason to suppose a particle had either accidentally fallen to the
ground or been intentionally removed.
    The same part of the wall was again brushed perfectly clean,
and I continued to make daily observations in expectation of a
renewal of the process ; but no new collection was perceptible,
excepting in the form of a very few detached and minute capil
lary crystals, till the 16th of March; on which day, having been
absent during the whole of the 14th and 15th, I found a more
abundant accumulation than in the preceding instances.

               the    natural Production   of Saltpetre.             419
   It was an obvious supposition that the reproduction of the
nitre was connected with some change in the state of the at
mosphere : and it is to be remarked, that its first-mentioned ap
pearance took place in frosty weather, and that its reappearance
about the 16th of March had been preceded by a frost of a few
days ; whereas during the intervals in which it disappeared and
was not again produced, the weather had been mild.        The wall
was again brushed quite clean on the 16th of March; between
which day and the 4th of April a considerable quantity had
again collected on the same part ; the process having been more
rapid during the last four or five days, which were cold.
   On April the 12th the front of this part of the wall was re
newed by scraping, for the purpose of observing what would be
the effect of a fresh surface, and before the 25th of April nitre
had formed on many parts of this new surface ; but having first
increased and then continued stationary for some days, it began
to diminish about the beginning of May, the state of the air having
been very moist during the two or three preceding days.
   About the middle of May 1813 I selected several distinct
parts on which the spontaneous formation of nitre usually takes
place, some within and some without the building of the Mu
seum, and began to make daily observations on the phaenomena
of that process, which I noted down at the time : but as a re
gister of this kind would be unnecessarily tedious in its recital,
I shall beg leave to give the following general results of those
observations ; requesting it may be kept in mind, that I do not
presume to lay a greater stress on them than is proportional to
the short period of time and the circumscribed space in which
they were made.
    It appears then from the observations I have hitherto been
able to make, that the spontaneous formation of saltpetre is,
generally speaking, much more extensive and rapid in winter
than in summer, whether it take place on the interior or ex
terior of a building : thus during the period of the cold weather
in January 1814, it became visible not only on parts of the walls
where I had never before observed          it,
                                            but even on the pave
ment of the laboratory.      The part of the pavement on which         it
appeared  is  adjacent to the north wall    but as the greater part         '
                                           ;
of the pavement      covered
                     is        by  flooring of wood,
                                   a                            is
                                                           impossi
                                                           it
ble to say whether or not    ittook place on other parts also. The
stone forming the pavement          the same kind of limestone as
                                    is
that of which the walls are built.
   Again, whereas in summer its reproduction        most rapid and
                                                    is
extensive in proportion to the degree of light present, the re
verse of this (though not universally) takes place in winter.
Wherever the saline efflorescence in question occurs, the sur-
                               D   d
                                   2                                 faoe

420                   Observations respecting
face of the stone becomes permanently discoloured, as if from
the effect of damp; but this discoloration is merely superficial.
 If these discoloured parts be whitewashed, the process still goes
on ; and the whitewash is gradually detached in flakes : but
it is difficult to ascertain whether the nitre is formed on the
whitewash, or on the wall which it covers ; though probably the
latter.
    When the spontaneous formation of nitre takes place slowly
and in a sheltered situation, it is at first visible in the form of
minute prismatic crystals, which usually project from. the surface
of the wall nearly at right angles ; but sometimes they are scat-r
tered in different directions, lying upon its surface so lightly as
scarcely to appear in contact with it.       In general, however, the
saline efflorescence makes its appearance in extremely minute
 capillary crystals, either accumulated in groups, which resemble
 recently fallen flakes of snow, or investing the wall like a fine
down.
     During the severely cold weather of January 1814, it ap->
 peared in some places in the form of minute dense grains closely
 aggregated ; while in others it still continued to wear the ap
pearance of down or wool : and the local circumstances most
 obviously connected with this difference in the manner of crystal
 lization, were the presence of a greater degree of light, where the
granular deposition took place, and a less degree of shelter from
 the influence of cold air.
     In some instances the production of the saltpetre is accom
 panied with a disintegration of the substance of the stone on
which it is formed : but this circumstance is only observable on
 Stones of a loose texture.
     The shortest interval I have observed between the time of its
 having been brushed away and its reappearance, is four hours :
 but it was then in full efflorescence,     and would probably have
 been visible much earlier.     The observation was made on No
 vember the 17th, about midnight : there had been snow in the
 midlde of the day, and the night was frosty.
     The spontaneous formation of nitre takes place indifferently
 on the surface of the stones composing a wall, and of the mortar
 by which those stones are cemented ; and near the close of the
 late frost, I observed it for the first time on the surface of a par
 tition consisting entirely of laths plastered over with the mortar
 or stucco commonly used for that purpose.
     It accumulates in greater quantity on some parts of a given
 surface than on others ; and this difference in the degree of its
 accumulation, is probably connected with some slight difference
 in the texture or composition of the stone on which it is formed :
 for I have repeatedly observed that after a careful removal of it,
                                                                   its

                    the natural Production   of Saltpetre.           421
  its reproduction takes place to the same proportional extent in
  the same parts : and this difference in the degree of the efflores
  cence often takes place not by a gradual transition,            but as
   abruptly  as if the line of separation had been marked      a
                                                             by graver ;
  so that the part of the surface on one side of the line shall be
  almost totally devoid of any efflorescence, while on -the other
  side it shall resemble the accumulation of hoar-frost on the small
  branches of a tree.
      The saltpetre formed in summer scarcely appears to contain
  a particle of any calcareous salt : that formed in winter contains
  most evident traces of such a salt, though probably even in win
  ter the amount of this is not much above one part in two hun
  dred of the whole mass.
      A frosty, clear, and dry state of the atmosphere is particularly
  favourable to the natural production of nitre : but there seems
  to be a limit to its formation, on the same spot, even under the
  most favourable circumstances ; the quantity of the nitre not
  continuing to increase after it has proceeded to a certain ex
  tent.
      In a moist state of the atmosphere the formation either does
  not take place at all, or goes on slowly : and if that state of the
  atmosphere which is unfavourable to the production of nitre
  continue a sufficient length of time, the nitre already formed
  gradually disappears.       At the commencement of these observa
  tions I attributed the occasional disappearance of the nitre to its
  mechanical removal from the wall, and supposed that it must
'
  have been by accident brushed off : but repeated observations
  convinced me this was not the case, its disappearance proceeding
  as gradually as its previous appearance ; besides which, had it
  fallen from the wall, I should most probably have found it on
  the pavement beneath, which never happened to me.             It after
  wards appeared probable, although I have never met with any
  condensed moisture on the surfaces submitted to the foregoing
  observations, that the aqueous vapour precipitated from the at
  mosphere in the state of it above alluded to, might dissolve mi
   nute particles of the nitre, and be absorbed with them into the
  substance of the wall ; but on this supposition nitre ought to be
  found in lixiviating a portioYi of the stone taken near the surface.
  I have however made the experiment without detecting any nitre
  in the stone so taken.       But, in opposition to the idea of the
  absorption of the nitre into the substance of the stone, I found
  the efflorescence disappear in more places than one during the
  severe frost of the present year (1814), at a time when, from
  the temperature of the stone, if not of the air also, the absorp
   tion here supposed could not have taken place ; since, that tem
  perature being below the freezing point, the aqueous particles
                                     D d3                  !       would

422                      Observations respecting
would by congelation have been rendered incapable of dissolving
the nitre.
       It is deserving of notice, that such a spontaneous disappear
 ance of the nitre, as has been just mentioned, took place ante
 cedentlv to and during the late heavy fall of snow on January
  18 and'19.
       Wishing to ascertain whether the free presence of atmosphe
 rical air be necessary in the natural process under consideration,
  I selected a part of the wall on which the formation of saltpetre
 usually takes place to a considerable extent ; and insulated about
  a square foot of its surface which had been previously brushed
  quite clean.      It was insulated by means cf a plate of glass, the
  edges     of the frame  of which were covered with a cement, so as
  to exclude any access of air between the glass and the wall.      As
   the depth of the frame was not more than the third of an inch,
   the inclosed space contained but an inconsiderable quantity of
   atmospherical air.      On the following day, October 29, I ob
   served that a formation of nitre had taken place on the part of
   the wall within the glass, but that it was not so extensively dif
   fused, nor so abundantly deposited, as had been usual before the
   application of the glass ; and the crystals, which were distinctly
   prismatic, were much more accurately defined, and larger, than
   I had ever before observed them ; in consequence, probably, of
   the tranquil state of the medium in which they were formed.
   On the day following, October 30, the quantity was increased ;
   but it remained stationary from that time to November 12, when
    it began to diminish ; and on November 1 6 there was no longer
    any appearance of it : nor did it reappear in the interval between
    November 16 and 29.         In the mean time the efflorescence had
   not only taken place on the adjacent parts of the wall in the
   usual manner, but had been more than once brushed off and
    again deposited, while no increase had taken place in that ori
    ginally formed within the glass.
        On November 29, the exterior surface of the glass was, for a
    purpose to be mentioned presently, covered over with whitewash;
    which was not removed till January 8, 1814.          No observation
    could of course be made on the appearance of the surface within
    the glass during the interval that the glass itself was covered
    with whitewash ; but nq nitre was visible on the removal of the
    whitewash on January 8.        It had, however, reappeared before
    the morning of January 10, partly in separate capillary prismatic
 '
     crystals which were much larger than on the former occasion,
     and reached from the surface of the wall to the inner surface of   _
    the glass ; and partly in small floceulent tufts ; the whole quan
     tity of the nitre formed being much greater than, and the man
    ner of its formation being very different from, that formation

                   the natural Production of Saltpetre.                423
which took place within the glass on October 29 and 30.                Still
 the whole quantity was not nearly equal to that which was usually
formed on the same surface when exposed to the free action of
the atmosphere.        The increased quantity however formed in
January, compared with that formed in October, corresponds
with the observation that the natural production of nitre is much
influenced bv temperature: but it is worth mentioning, that
while the nitre formed within the glass in January occurred either
in distinctly prismatic crystals or in flocculent tufts, that which
was formed on the adjacent parts of the wall was of the granular
 character above described in page 420.
     Having by the foregoing experiment satisfied myself with re
 spect to the necessity of the free presence of atmospherical air
for the full effect in the spontaneous production of nitre, I wished
to ascertain the nature of the connexion between the nitre
formed and the stone on which it is formed"; and particularly
whether carbonate of lime simply would be sufficient for its pro
duction.      I therefore made a nearly liquid paste with distilled
water and prepared chalk *, with which I covered* the exterior
surface of the glass that had been attached to the wall for the
purpose already mentioned: but though nitre was repeatedly
formed in the neighbourhood of the glass, not a particle ap
peared on the whitewash during the space of nearly six weeks,
from November 29 to January 8.
     The foregoing statement contains the general results of all the
 observations I have hitherto been able to make on the present
subject.     I subjoin an imperfect analysis of the stone of which
the laboratory of the Ashmole Museum is built, and of the salt
petre periodically formed on it ; concluding with a few remarks
 on the local differences connected with a more or less extensive
formation of that substance, and on its probable or rather possi
 ble source.
     The stone of which the laboratory is constructed belongs to
one of those alternating series of clay, and sand, and calcareous
freestone, of which the varieties of Bath stone form nearly the
lowermost x strata; and the Headington            stone, of which the
greater part of Oxford is built, the uppermost.         It is principally
 made up of the debris of small sea shells, but frequently con
 tains organic vegetable remains, and always some proportion of
 sand and ochry clay.
     Six portions of this stone taken from different parts of the labo-
    * As  chalk sometimes contains magnesia, and almost always a small
                                 I
 proportion of silcx and alumine, intend on a future occasion to repeat the
-experiment, using very finely pulverized crystallized calcareous spar, in
  stead of chalk.
                                    D d 4                           ratory,

424                   Observations respecting
ratory, each weighing at least two hundred grains, were separately
submitted to the action of a sufficient quantity of diluted muria
 tic acid. The undissolved residuum, which amounted in no
 instance to as much as four parts in a hundred, consisted of a
 yellowish brown ochry clay, mixed with a few particles of white
 sand, and small laminar fragments of a dirty-white colour, very
 much resembling portions of the siliceous incrustation of the
 Geyser spring.      Small flocculent shreds slowly subsided in the
 muriatic solution, derived probably from the membranous part
 of the shelly matter of the limestone ; for this insoluble resi
 duum, when thrown into red-hot nitre, slightly deflagrated, and
 gave out an odour resembling burnt bones : and as this residuum
 had been collected without the use of a filter, the inflammable
 matter could not well have been derived from any other source
 than the stone itself.
     The muriatic solution contained a small proportion of iron,
 and gave a very slight trace of magnesia.     So that the compo
 sition of the stone may be thus stated :
     Carbonate of lime                                            96
     Oxide of iron, sand, ochry clay, and animal membrane . .       4
                                                           1
                                                                 100
     In offering the following  imperfect analysis of  the   saltpetre
 produced in the situations above alluded to, it is necessary to
 state, that the quantities on which I have hitherto had it in my
 power to operate have been very small.
     Some preliminary experiments made on a solution of saltpetre
 which had been formed during the summer, gave the following
 results.
     The solution contained no disengaged acid or alkali, and
upon the addition of oxalate of ammonia afforded the slightest
 possible evidence of the presence of lime.    It contained minute
 portions of sulphuric and muriatic acid.    A portion of it being
 evaporated left a mass of crystals which, in their form, as in
 all their other characters, exhibited the properties of nitrate of
 potash.
     As it is usually stated by writers who speak of the subject,
 that nitrate of lime is a principal constituent part of saltpetre
 formed by a natural process, I was much surprised by the very
 slight trace of lime evident in the present instance ; though I
 had felt assured previously that but little would be found in the
 natural saltpetre which I have had an opportunity of examining ;
 having never observed in it any tendency towards deliquescence.
 Having had frequent occasion to suppose that carbonate of lime
 js much more readily soluble in water than is commonly be
 lieved, and having never been able to detach the saline efflores
                                                                cence

                the natural Production   of Saltpetre.          425
cence in question from the walls of the laboratory, &c. without
admixture of particles of the limestone, or of the whitewash,
amounting to at least seven or eight parts in a hundred, it struck
me that these particles might be the source of the lime rendered
evident by the addition of the oxalate of ammonia in the solution
of the saltpetre. I therefore pulverised small portions of cal
careous spar, of the common limestone of this country, and of
whitewash ; and having agitated accurately distilled water, at
the common temperature, with each of these portions, I then
filtered the water, and tested it with oxalate of ammonia.        In
each instance there was fully as copious a precipitate as when
the oxalate of ammonia had been added to an equal quantity of
the solution of saltpetre.
    Similar preliminary experiments having been made on some
saltpetre detached from the same part with that already sub
mitted to examination, but formed during the winter instead of
the summer, the same results were obtained, with this single dif
ference, that the precipitate obtained by the addition of oxalate
of ammonia was much more copious : and I found this to be the
case from whatever part of the laboratory or elsewhere the salt
petre had been detached, provided it had been formed during
the winter.     I could not extend the experiment on the saltpetre
formed during the summer, having only reserved a portion from
one spot.
    Judging from such experiments as I have made, it appears that
the saltpetre formed in the situations described in this paper
consists of full 99 parts in 100 of nitrate of potash ; with a very
minute proportion of some calcareous salt, which is either not
at all present in in the saltpetre formed during summer, or is
present in smaller quantity than in that formed during winter —
though even in the latter instance it scarcely amounts to one
part in 200.
    The proportion of sulphuric and of muriatic acid, and the
bases with which these acids are combined, I have not attempted
to ascertain, on account of the minuteness of the proportion in
Which they evidently exist.
    In considering the relative situations of the different parts of
the laboratory, and the other buildings also, in which saltpetre
is naturally formed, it is evident that the efflorescence takes
place only where the exterior of the wall on which it is formed
is either exposed to the direct influence of the weather, or is in
contact with the adjacent ground ; not taking place at all in
those instances in which the wall is neither exposed to the
weather on either side, nor is in contact with the adjacent ground :
from which it might be argued, that the effect depends upon the
                                                              action

428      Observations on the natural Production           of Saltpetre.
action of the external air, or of the moisture of the ground trans>-
mitted through the substance of the wall: but the result of that
experiment in which, the action of the air on the interior surface
of the wall having been prevented by the intervention of a glass,
the formation of nitre took place only to a very slight extent, is
in a great measure at variance with such a supposition.
    Again : though it is evident that the natural production of the
saltpetre is closely connected with changes in the state of the
atmosphere, those changes relating not only to its temperature
but also to the degree of its moisture and barometrical pressure ;
yet a much longer series of observations, and these not partial
like the present, but carried on in various parts of the world,
is requisite, before even this part of the problem can be accu
rately solved.     There still would remain a part of much more
difficult solution, namely, the source of the metallic base of the
alkali of the nitre.
    With respect to this difficult question, if we compare the ele
ments present in the composition of the saltpetre formed, with
the elements of the substances present during its formation, it
seems a reasonable conclusion that the potassium, or the metal
lic base of the potash of the saltpetre, is either a simple princi
ple of some of the elements present, or that it results from the
union of two or more of those principles, or of two or more of
the elements themselves*.
    The gross compounds present during the formation of salt
petre, in the instances mentioned in this paper, are atmosphe
rical air and the limestone on which the saltpetre effloresces ;
and all the component parts of these may be ultimately resolved
into the following elements — oxygen, nitrogen, hydrogen, and
carbon, together with iron and the metallic bases of some of the
earths.
    The component parts of nitrate of potash, of which the salt
petre under consideration almost entirely consists, are nitric acid,
water, and potash ; which may be resolved into the following
elements — oxygen, nitrogen, hydrogen, and potassium : and all
these elements are experimentally known to be present in the
situations where saltpetre is formed, with the exception of po
tassium.
    In the supposition then that the saltpetre is a product and
not an educt of the above process, since no potash can be de.-
    * The terms " clement" and "
                                    principle" are here used in the same re
lation to each other as the early physical philosophers used the terms 'ww*
          They supposed that the former, though incapable of decomposition
 by common means, were not necessarily to be considered as absolutely
simple substances : those absolutely simple substances they expressed by
the term sg&ci.                              -
                                \
                                                                        tectcd

                    Stratification of Glamorganshire.                    427
tected either in the air or limestone, the potassium must either
be contained in a free state in the atmosphere or in the lime
stone, which from its remarkable attraction for oxygen is inad
 missible : or it must be a component principle of some one of
the elements present ; or lastly, it must be itself a compound of
two or more of the principles of those elements, or of two or
 more of the elements themselves.
      But I am aware that the saltpetre may be considered as an
 educt of the process, and that it may possibly exist already
 formed in the atmosphere in a state of minute division : yet,
 when we consider the comparatively fixed nature of that salt,
 and that no experiments have yet detected its presence in at
 mospherical air, or in the moisture precipitated from atmosphe
 rical air ; and lastly, when we reflect on the probability that
 the metals, of which potassium is one, are compound bodies,
  the former supposition seems upon the whole preferable to the
  latter.
      February, 1814.
               LXVI. Stratification of Glamorganshire*            .
                               Mountain Lime.
  This rock forms         the whole of the peninsula of Gower, westward
   of  a line drawn    S.S.E. through Penclawold, Gellyhir, Littlehills,
  west side of Clgne Moor to Blackpill ; appears again near Pgle
 .Inn, Cenfig, Skerr, Cornely, Nottage, Newton Down, Cevn
   Cribbor, rises through the lias at Ewenny, forms Eweriny and
  Ogmore Downs, Golden Mile, Saint Mary Hill, Coed y Mwstor
  near Coychurch, Newforest, Llanblethian, Peulline, Trecastle,
   Lanchacar,      Stalling Down near Cowbridge,             Saint Lythians
  Down, Courtgrala, Bolston, covered by alluvia at St. George's
   and elsewhere in that valley.        Very hard variety at Saint Fagaas.
   Hills near Lantrissant E. and W. Lower Garth, Castell Coch,
   Lisvaue towards Caerphilly, Ruddrey, whence at Machen it
   runs into Monmouthshire.          This last named range bounds the
   great coal basin        which  will  be presently described.        I have
   observed no fossil madrepores, but abundance of entrochi ; ga
   lena is found in various places. A shallow bed of coarse sand
   stone rests on the mountain lime at St. Hilary and Lantrythid ;
   beds of white calcareous slate have been cut through in the lead
   mines there.       Manganese has been worked on Newton Down.
    Cherty   blocks   may be observed there and on St. Mary Hill. —
      * For  the localities mentioned in this sketch, see the excellent Map of
    Glamorganshire, published from the Survey of G. Yates, by Gary, 181,
    Strand, London.
                                                                        A grey

   428               Stratification of Glamorganshire.
  A    grey variety streaked with red and white is worked at the
  Mumbles by Mr. Wallis of Swansea, sawn into slabs and po
  lished'.   Near Pyle a reddish-grey variety occurs with green and
  yellow   veins : it is very hard, and contains no fossils.      We may
 observe it near Coity.        Mytili, chamee, pelices, pectenites, gry-
  phites, &c. are found in some parts of the mountain lime.         I have
 haematitic iron ore from Lanharan.            The mountain lime rises
  on the north side of the county near the Ddinas rock, Breck
 nockshire.       Here I observed the laminated sulphate of baryte,
 containing small crystals of sulphuret of iron partially converted
  into green vitriol.     Here two valuable veins of fire clay may be
 seen.
                               Red Ground.
      Beds of marl, red, blue and white, sometimes with narrow
 bed* of siliceous freestone, occur at Sully, Lavernock, Cogan,
 Porthkerry, where they pass into blue lias limestone.            At Pen-
 naith Point, a bold headland, the stratification exactly resem
 bles Aust Cliff, Glocestershire, red rock marl with beds of com
 mon and striated gypsum.          Barry Island consists of red ground,
 lias, and mountain lirnes irregularly disposed.        The tract along
 the coast near Cardiff lies low, consisting of vast beds of pebbles
 and gravel protected by a sea wall.
                                 Blue Lias.
      An acute angle one mile N.N.W. of Bridgend is the most
northern direction where we can trace the lias in Glamorgan
shire, there it joins the coal-basin at Penyva.         It is seen every
where at Laleston, Tithegston, Merthyrmawr,             where   there are
very extensive caverns through which part of the Ogmore river
passes.      It forms the cliffs a little west of Dunraven Castle to
 Marcross, Monknath, Boverton, St. Athan, Aberthaw, where it
appears in the form of banks of shingles, Porthkerry thence to
Fonmor, Penmark, Wenvoe, Lancarvan, Lantrythid, Llancadle,
Flemingston, Saint Mary Church, Landough, Llanmaes, Llan-
twit, Saint Donats, Lisworney, Colwinston.
    '
      At Wick Cliffs E. of Dunraven the lias is 200 feet thick,
dipping a little S. About a mile west of Dunraven, the cliffs
assume a different character.         A calcareous breccia with nodules
of chert, jasper, &c. (similar to that described by Mr. Gilby,
Phil. Mag. vol. xliv. page 246) underlies the lias for about half
a mile.      The mountain lime rises from under the Sutton stone
a little to the N.W. of the caves.
      At Tresilian E. of St. Donats there is also a very extensive cave.
Numbers of fossil gryphites occur in thin seams of clay between
the lias beds, fossil wood in several states, silicified, or burning
with the smell of Cannel coal, of which it has the fracture.             A
                                                                 coralline

     Some Experiments on the Comlustion           of the Diamond.    429
coralline  (species unknown to pie) is often met with.         Near Dun-
raven large fossil nautili, and at Llanblethian delicate casts of
cornua ammonis in calcareous spar. Shells of several other genera
occur less frequently.       The breccia above mentioned occurs, I
believe, close to the blue lias at the mouth of Cadorton river.
   Small oysters, nearly in a recent state, occur in the seams of
clay between the layers.
                                                              -
                              Sutton Stone.                 >
    The Sutton or Silton stone which occurs near the Dunraven
caves is of a greyish-white colour, and contains cockles, muscles
and scollops converted into silex. The rock makes but indifferent
lime, as it contains much siliceous matter.          It bears the weather
well, as the copings of Swansea Castle, Neath Abbey, &c. evince.
The Sutton stone overlies the masses of rock which rise round
and in front of the -caves. These masses are calcareous, but
mixed with much argil of a reddish brown or black colour ; and
it is curious, that this species of rock occurs no where else in
 Glamorganshire.
                                Coal Basm.
   This important formation with its valuable beds of different
coals, and argillaceous iron ore, has been well described by Mr.
Martin.      (Phil. Trans. 1806.)       It comprises all the tract Wing
N. of a line drawn eastward from Taybaeh, along the hills be
hind Bridgend and Lantrissent to the extremity of the county.
The iron ore is most abundant round Merthyr and at the upper
part of Heath Valley.        The picturesque scenes in the vales of
Tawey, Neath, Dgmore, Rondda and Taaf, lie within its range;
The mountain lime rises to the north of the basin at Castell
Morlais near Merthyr. A valuable bed of siliceous freestone is
met with at Coity ; it lies between the coal basin and mountain
lime ; it is also worked near Pyle.          At Sutton    If  mile W. of
Dunraven a valuable bed of calcareous freestone much used for
ornamental masonry rests upon the lias near its junction with
 the mountain lime,
     Dec. 3, 1814.                                                     . :
LXVII.    Some Experiments on the Comlustion of the Diamond
   and   other carbonaceous Substances.             By Sir Humphrt
   Davy, LL.D. F.R.S. KP.R.L*
Since it has been shown by various accurate experiments, that
the diamoud and common carbonaceous substances consume
nearly the same quantity of oxygen in combustion, and produce
        * From the
                     Philosophical Transactions for 1814,  partii.
                                                                    a gas

450 Some Experiments on the Comlustion                           of the Diamond.
a gas having the same obvious qualities, a number of conjec
tures have been formed to explain the remarkable differences in
the sensible qualities of these bodies, by supposing some minute
difference in their chemical composition : these conjectures haver
been often discussed, it will not be necessary therefore to dwell
upon them.       MM. Biot and Arago, from the high refractive
power   of the diamond, have supposed that it may contain hy
drogen.     I ventured to suggest in my third Bakerian Lecture,
from the circumstance of its non-conducting power, and from
the action of potassium upon      that minute portion of oxygen
                                       it,            a
may exist in     itand in my Account of some new Experiments
                   ;
ou the fluoric Compounds*,      hazarded the idea that
                                    I                       might              it
be the carbonaceous principle combined with some new light
and subtile element of the class of supporters of combustion.
M. Guyton de Morveau, who conceived he had proved             ex                    by
periments made fourteen years ago, that common carbonaceous
substances were oxides of diamonds, from his last researches,
conducted in the same manner as those of Messrs.' Allen and
Pepys, seems still inclined to adopt this opinion, though in ad
mitting    a much smaller quantity of oxygen than he originally
supposed    in charcoal   and he considers the diamond as pure
                            ;
carbonaceous matter, containing, possibly, some atoms of water
of crystallization.
 I    have long had     desire of making some new experiments on
                        a
 the combustion of the diamond and other carbonaceous sub
 stances;  and this desire was increased                    by
                                                 the new facts ascer
 tained with respect to iodine, which         uniting to hydrogen af
                                                       by
fords  an acid  so analogous   to muriatic  acid, that   was for someit
time confounded     with  that substance.     My object in these ex
 periments was, to examine minutely whether any peculiar mat
ter was separated from the diamond during its combustion, and
to determine whether the gas, formed in this process, was pre
cisely the same in its minute chemical nature, as that formed in
the combustion of common charcoal.              have lately been able
                                                          I
to accomplish my wishes         ;shall now have the honour of com
                                   I
municating my results to the Royal Society.
    During a stay that made at Florence in the end of March
                            I
and beginning of April,      made several experiments on the com
                               I
bustion of the diamond, and of plumbago,                      by
                                                    means of the great
lens in the Cabinet of Natural History; the same instrument as
that employed in the first trials on the action of the solar heat
on the diamond, instituted         Cosmo III. Grand Duke of Tus
                                    by
cany;   and  I have since  made     series of researches on the com
                                       a
bustion of different kinds of charcoal at Rome, in the laboratory
       *
            Phil. Trans. for   1814, part   i.   p.   72.— Phil. Mag.   p.   93.
                                                                                         of

     Some   Experiments    on the Combustion   of the Diamond. 43f
of the Academia Lyncei. In the first       series I was honoured by
the assistance of the Count Bardi, the Director, and Signior
Gazzari, the Professor of Chemistry at the Florentine Museum :
and in the last by that of Sig. Morrichini and Barlocci, Pro
fessors of the College Sapienza at Rome.
    In the very first trials on the combustion of the diamond, I         ,
ascertained a circumstance that I believe has not been noticed
before ; namely, that the diamond, when strongly ignited by the
lens in a thin capsule of platinum perforated with many orifices,
so as to admit a free circulation of air, continues to burn in oxy
gen gas after being withdrawn from the focus. The light it
 affords is steady, and of so brilliant a red, as to be visible in the
 brightest sunshine ; and the heat produced is so great, that in
 one experiment, in which three fragments of diamonds weighing
 1-84 grain only were burnt, a fine wire of platinum used for at
 taching them to the tray was fused, and that some time after the
 diamonds were removed out of the focus.
     The knowledge of this circumstance enabled me to adopt a
 very simple apparatus and mode of operation in my researches,
 and to complete, in a few minutes, experiments which have been
 supposed to require the presence of a bright sunshine for many
 hours.
     My apparatus consisted of clear glass globes of the capacity
 of from fourteen to forty cubical inches, having single apertures
 to which stop-cocks were attached : a small hollow cylinder of
 platinum, which I use in experiments with the blow-pipe, was
 attached to one end of the stop-cock, and was mounted with a
 little perforated capsule of platinum for containing the diamond.
  When the experiment was to be made, the globe containing the
  capsule and the substance to be burned was exhausted by an ex
  cellent air-pump, and pure oxygen gas, made from hyperoxy-
  muriate of potassa, admitted.      The globe before and after the
  experiment was brought to the same temperature as the water
  over which the oxygen gas had remained.           And as during the
  short time required for the combustion there was no sensible
  change either in the thermometer or barometer, no corrections
  for pressure or temperature were rendered necessary ; the change
  of volume in the gas after the combustion, was estimated by
  means of a fme tube connected with a stop-cock, adapted by a
  proper screw to the stop-cock of the globe, and the absorption
  was judged of by the quantity of mercury that entered the tube,
  which afforded a measure so exact that no alteration, however
  minute, could be overlooked. As the elastic force of the vapour of
  water is the same at the same temperature, it was evident, that if
  any water formed in these experiments, it would be deposited as
   dew or mist in the globe ; and I am convinced by direct trials,
                                                                    that

  432 Some Experiments on the Combustion               of the Diamond.
 that a quantity of moisture not capable of being weighed by a
 balance sensible to the TJ? of a grain, is rendered evident by
  deposition on a polished glass surface*.
      The diamonds were always heated to redness before they were
 introduced into the capsule.
      During the combustion of the diamond, the glass globe was
 kept cool by the application of water to that part of it imme
  diately above the capsule, and where the heat was greatest.
       In "the first experiment, three diamonds, weighing together
  1-63 grain, were entirely consumed, in a quantity of oxygen gas,
 more than three times as much as was necessary to convert them
 into carbonic acid.        In this case, after the combustion had oncef
  commenced, it continued without a fresh application of the lens
 till there remained only a very thin piece of the largest diamond
 in contact with the capsule, and this by being brought into the
 focus rapidly disappeared.           On restoring the globe to its ori
 ginal temperature,       there  was   a very evident deposition of mois
 ture ; but on arranging         the  apparatus, so as to ascertain the
 change of volume of the gas, there entered only twenty-one
 grains of mercury.        In this experiment, the cylinder of platinum
  had been fastened into the stop-cock by means of a small per
  forated cork : it seemed probable, when the small diminution
  of gas was considered, that the appearance of moisture might be
 owing to the production of vapour from this cork during the
  combustion, and the second experiment demonstrated that this
  was the case.
       In this second experiment 1-84 grain of small diamonds were
  employed, and a glass globe of the capacity of 14 9 cubical inches.
 Soon after the capsule was placed in the focus in bright sunshine,
  the diamonds burnt with great brilliancy, and continued to burn
  till they had considerably diminished in bulk ; but their splen
 dour of combustion gradually became less, and before thev had
  apparently lost half of their volume the process ceased.                 By
 placing them a second time in the focus, after agitating the
 globe so as to change their places, the combustion was again
  produced; but the light was much less vivid than before, and
  the combustion continued for a much shorter time.                They were
  exposed     to  the concentrated   rays  a third  and  a  fourth time ; but
'after the fourth time they seemed incapable of burning,, and
 though kept for some minutes in the focus, appeared to under-
      * A piece of paper weighing a grain was introduced into a tube of about
  the capacity of four cubical inches, the exterior of which was gently heated
  by a candle; immediately a slight dew was perceptible in the interior of
  the upper part of the tube ; the paper taken out and weighed immediately
  iu the balance above referred to, had not suffered any appreciable diminu
  tion,
                                                                            go

     Some Experiments oh the Combustion       of the Diamond.   433
 go no further diminution: two fragments remained, which, as it
 was afterwards found, weighed -52 of a grain ; the barometer
 during the experiment was at 29-9 inches, the thermometer at
 56° Fahrenheit.     When the original temperature of the globe
 was restored, there was not the slightest appearance of vapour
or humidity; the interior was as clear as before the experiment,
and there was no solid matter of any kind separated in the tray.
The fragments of diamond which remained were not black, but
had lost their lustre like glass that has been acted on by fluoric
acid, nor at any period of the process was any carbonaceous
appearance perceived upon them.          When the communication
was made by the stop-cock between the interior of the globe and
a surface of mercury, a minute quantity entered equal to 1-5
grain only.
   A portion of the gas in the globe was transferred into a tube
in the mercurial apparatus, and the oxygen it contained ab
sorbed by the combustion of phosphorus;            3-5 parts of gas-
heated in this way left a residuum of 2-3 parts.       A portion of
the gas was agitated with lime-water, when seven parts out of
ten were absorbed.        I exposed the gas which remained after
the combustion of phosphorus to several tests ; it had not only
the obvious characters of carbonic acid, but exhibited exactly
the same chemical phaenomena.         Potassium strongly heated in
it in a small glass tube over mercury, burnt with a dull red light,
and formed an alkaline product of the same intense black co
lour as that produced by its combustion in the carbonic acid
procured by the dissolution of marble : distilled water absorbed
rather less than its own volume of the gas, and became subacid,
sparkled by agitation, gained the taste and smell of a solution of
carbonic acid in water, precipitated in the same manner lime-
water, and when in excess redissplved the precipitate.       To as
certain if this precipitate was exactly the same in composition as
pure carbonate of lime, I made a sufficient quantity of it by
pouring lime-water into the recipient containing the results
of the first experiment ; and after collecting and drying it at the
temperature of 212° Fahrenheit, I introduced a quantity of it
contained in some, foil of platinum through mercury into a glass
tube filled with mercury, and I heated in the same manner an
equal quantity of finely powdered Carrara marble, and admitted,
to them equal quantities of solution of muriatic acid.      In this
trial, there was rather more elastic fluid disengaged from the
Carrara marble than from the carbonate of lime from the dia
mond ; but on examining the foil of platinum after the experi
ment, I found that a little of the carbonate had not been acted
upon: I tried two similar experiments, substituting bibulous
paper instead of the metallic foils for infolding the carbonates ;
   Vol. 44. No. 200. Dec. 1814.              E e                the

434 Some Experiments on the Combustion           of the Diamond.
the results were such as to show that hoth substances afforded
the same quantities of elastic fluid.
    I heated some of the carbonate from the diamond in a tube
 which contained potassium, and passed the potassium through
 it in vapour : there was ignition, and a substance of a dense
 black colour was formed ; this substance was acted on by dilute
 muriatic acid, when it left a fine black powder which burnt like
 lamp black, and when thrown into fused nitre scintillated and
 disappeared in the same manner as powdered charcoal.
    The gas that remained in the second experiment, after the
 absorption of the carbonic acid gas, vividly supported combus
 tion, and diminished with nitrous gas ; but as the degree of
 purity of the oxygen gas with which the globe was filled had
 not been determined before the experiment, it was impossible
 to ascertain with precision, that no elastic matter had been
emitted during the process.          To determine this point, I made a
 third experiment.        A thin diamond weighing -93 of a grain
 was introduced into the platinum capsule, which was placed in
 a globe filled with water and inverted in water; some oxygen gas,
 the last portion from the decomposition of hyper-oxymuriate of
potassa, was thrown into the globe, so as to displace the water
below the level of the capsule.         The focus of the great lens was
thrown upon the capsule, which with the diamond was instantly
rendered dry by    it,   and the diamond soon entered into combus
tion and burnt as usual.          After the process was finished, the
carbonic acid was absorbed             bylime-water, and the remaining
gas,  which    equalled   about  one-third    of the quantity of oxygen
originally used, was compared analytically in several experiments
 with a portion of the same oxygen as that introduced into the
 globe, two measures of nitrous gas being added to a measure of
 each of the gases ;     the diminution was less   by   from -j-^ to T|o--
parts   in the  cases   in  which   the   gas  that had  been exposed to
the action of the diamond was u$ed; but this minute difference
is  what might have been expected, and which indeed could not
fail to exist, when      it    considered that, during the absorption
                              ie
of carbonic acid gas      by  water and lime water,     a  small quantity
of common air    is   always expelled from the water.
                                                                           >
    In this last experiment      small fragment of diamond remained
                                   a
uhconsumed,      which   was similar  in appearance to that mentioned
in  the   second experiment,      and   its colour, which was originally
yellow, was rendered rather darker. In no one of the three experi
ments was there any distinct appearance of carbonization, when
the process was stopped in consequence of the impurity of the
gas  ; though the diamonds were of various colouis and different
lustres.
  A   piece of plumbag* from Borrowdale in Cumberland, weigh
                                                                     ing

     Some Experiments on the Combustion       of the Diamond.    435
ing two grains, was exposed in the focus in the same manner
as the diamond in the first and second experiments, having
been previously heated red ; the quantity of oxygen gas employed
was 8-5 cubical inches: more than half the plumbago remained
unconsumed, and during the combustion some brown ashes were
produced.      The phaenomena in this experiment were very dif-       ,
ferent from those observed in the experiments on the diamond,
the gas became clouded during the process, and there was a con
siderable deposition of dew on the interior of the globe.      When
the original temperature of the globe was restored, and the
stop-cock opened, 96-6 grains of mercury entered, and drops
of moisture even were observed condensed on the sides of the
vessel.
   In the second series of experiments, charcoal formed by the
action of sulphuric acid on oil of turpentine, and some produced
during the formation of sulphuric ether, from which nitric acid
had been distilled, and which afterwards had been strongly ig
nited, and charcoal of oak which had undergone the same pro
cess, were used.        /
   Three grains of the charcoal from turpentine were employed,
2-5 of that from alcohol, and five grains of the charcoal of the
 oak : in all these instances of combustion the gas became clouded
during the combustion, and when the original temperature of
the globe was restored, moisture was found condensed in the
interior ; much the largest quantity in the experiment on the
charcoal of oak, and the least in that on the charcoal procured
from oil of turpentine.     The charcoal from oak left a residuum
of white ashes, which was principally carbonate of lime ; that
from oil of turpentine produced no residuum ; that from alcohol,
which was formed in a common process of the manufacture of
ether, left a minute quantity of ashes, probably owing to the
impurity of the sulphuric acid employed.
   The quantity of mercury which entered the apparatus indi
cating the change of volume of the gas, was in the experiment
on the charcoal of oil of turpentine                , . 107-5 grains
   In that on the charcoal of alcohol                   194-5
   In that on the charcoal of oak                       5 13-3
   From the results of these different experiments, it appears
evident, that the diamond affords no other substance by its com
bustion than pure carbonic acid gas ; and that the process is
merely a solution of diamond in oxygen, without any change in
the volume of the gas ; for the slight absorption in the second
experiment is scarcely more than a compensation for the volume
occupied by the diamonds consumed.
   It is likewise evident that in the combustion of the different
kinds of charcoal, water is produced ; and from the diminution
                              Be2                                  «f

43G Some Experiments an the Combustion                 of the Diamond.
of the volume of the gas, there          is every reason to believe,     that
the water is formed by the combustion             of hydrogen existing in
the charcoal ; and experiments which I have referred to, or de
 tailed in my third Bakerian Lecture, prove the presence of hy
 drogen in common charcoal ; and as the charcoal from the oil of
 turpentine left no residuum, no other cause but the presence of
 hydrogen can be assigned for the diminution occasioned in the
 volume of the gas during its combustion.
    , M. Guyton de Morveau* has noticed the production              of water
 during the combustion of plumbago from Keswick ; and from
 these experiments it is most probable that it is formed in the
 process of combustion, for it is unlikely that water should re
 main in union with plumbago at a red heat ; and in the various-
 experiments that I have made on the ignition of plumbago by
 Voltaic electricity, I have never perceived the separation of any-
 moisture, or the production of any gas ; so that it seems most
 likely that it contains intimately combined hydrogen.             It cannot
 be supposed that water exists in it in union with oxide of iron,
 for in this case there would be no obvious cause for the diminu
 tion of the volume of the gas ; and all analogy is in favour of
 the conclusion that the iron is in a metallic state.
      The general tenor of the results of these experiments is op
 posed to the opinion, that common carbonaceous substances
  differ from the diamond by containing oxygen ; for in this case
  they ought to increase and not diminish the volume of oxygen :
  nor, on the other hand, is it favourable to the supposition that
 the diamond contains oxygen, for the difference in the quantity
 of carbonic acid produced in the different experiments, is no
  more than may be reasonably ascribed to the generation of wa
  ter, in the combustion of the common carbonaceous substances ;
  and the results of the experiments, to which 1 have referred in
  the beginning of this paper on the action of potassium on the
  diamond, may be easily accounted for from other circumstancesf.
      That charcoal is more inflammable than the diamond may be
  explained from the looseness of its texture, and from the hydro
  gen it contains ; but the diamond appears to burn in oxygen,
  with as much facility as plumbago, so that at least one distinc
  tion supposed to exist between the diamond and common car
  bonaceous substances is done away by these researches.
      A fact which I formerly noticed, the blackening of diamond
      * Annates de Chimie, tome Ixxxiv.
                                        p. 241.
      t See Bakerian Lecture for 1808.     Potassium decomposes tlie silica in
   glass by being heated in contact with it; and in the case in which equal
   quantities of potassium were long heated in glass tubes, the one in contact
   with diamonds, the other alone, that in contact with the diamonds must
   have acted upon a much greater surface    of glass.
                                                                            by

     Some Experiments on tfie Combustion                  of the Diamond.   437
fcy thelong continued action of heated potassium, induced me
to suspect in the beginning of these inquiries, that common
charcoal might owe its colour, opacity, and conducting power,
to the circumstance of its containing minute portions of the me
tals of the alkalies, or earths, and plumbago to the iron it eon-
tains ; but when I found that charcoal made from oil of turpen
tine, which left no residuum in burning, and charcoal precipi
tated from carburetted hydrogen gas by chlorine, had the same
properties, it was necessary to renounce this opinion.
     The only chemical difference perceptible between diamond
and the purest charcoal,          is,
                                    that the last contains a minute por
tion of hydrogen but can;          a quantity of an element, less in some
 eases than    a
               6 j    0
                      0- part of  the  weight of the substance, occasion
so great   a  difference in physical and chemical characters          ?This
is   possible, yet    it   contrary to analogy; and am more inclined
                           is                                 I
to adopt the opinion of Mr. Tennant, that the difference depends
upon crystallization.          Transparent solid bodies are in general
non-conductors of electricity, and          it     probable that the same
                                                    is
corpuscular arrangements           which   give   to  matter the power of
transmitting and polarizing light, are         likewise  connected with its
 relations to electricity; and water, the hydrates of the alkalies,
 and  a   number of other bodies which are conductors of electricity
when fluid, become non-conductors in their crystallized form.
     The power possessed           bycertain carbonaceous substances of
absorbing gases,         and  separating colouring matters from fluids,
is   probably   mechanical    and dependent upon their porous nature;
for   it  belongs    in   the highest degree to vegetable and animal
charcoal, and         itdoes not exist in plumbago, coke, or anthra-
 colite..
      The same conclusions respecting the composition of carbonic
-acid may be drawn from these experiments, as from those of
  Messrs. Allen and Pepys, and Theodore de Saussure.                 If the
  calculations    be   founded    upon   the  difference  of the weights of
 'oxygen and carbonic acid gases,          which   appears the most exact
 method, carbonic acid gas will contain, according to the esti
  mate of the mean specific of the gravities of the two gases given
 by M. Theodore de Saussure*, thirty parts of oxygen, or two de
  finite proportions, to 11-3 parts of carbon, or one definite pro
 portion.
   Supposing the diminution of the oxygen produced in the ex
periments on the common carbonaceous substances entirely oc
casioned    the formation of water,
               by                          easy to calculate the
                                                    it   is
proportions of hydrogen in them    but in the case of plumbago
                                            ;
     * Annates   de   Chimie, tome Uxi. png. 261. This estimation   is   the same
 as thatI   have given.     Elements of Chem. Phil. pag. 305.
                                        E   e   3                           thera

438            New Outlines     of Chemical Philosophy.
there is probably a diminution of oxygen, from the oxidation of
the iron ; and it is not certain that the ashes afforded by the
charcoal from vegetable substances exist in it in the state of
earths and alkalies: and as the quantity of hydrogen varies ac
cording to the degiee of heat to which charcoal has been ex
posed, it is almost useless to attempt to assign its proportion in
 any particular case, especially when the largest portion is so ex
tremely minute.
     The nature of the chemical difference between the diamond
and other carbonaceous substances may be demonstrated by an
 other process, namely, igniting them in chlorine ; when common
well burnt charcoal, or plumbago from Cumberland, is intensely
ignited in chlorine, white fumes are immediately perceived in
 consequence of the production of muriatic acid gas by the hy
 drogen, which acid precipitates the aqueous vapour in the chlo
rine ; but the diamond occasions no such effect.        A small dia
mond, weighing -45 of a grain, was kept in a state of intense
 ignition by the great lens of the Florentine Museum for more
 than half an hour; but the gas suffered no change, and the dia
 mond had undergone no diminution of weight, and was not
                                             - -
 altered in appearance.       ,
     Charcoal, after being intensely ignited in chlorine, is not al
 tered in its conducting power or colour ; and this circumstance
 is in favour of the opinion, that the minute quantity of hydro
 gen is not the cinue of the great difference between the physical
 p roperties, »f the diamond and charcoal.
         LXVIll.     New Outlines     of  Chemical  Philosophy.
             By Ez. Walker, Esq. of Lynn, Noifolk.
                         [Continued  from p. 355.]
  w hat      has been advanced upon evaporation in my last paper,
  receives  considerable support from a series of experiments car
 ried on by Mr. Six, to investigate the variations of l«cal heat.
     On December 19, 1788, this gentleman disposed of three
  thermometers, of a peculiar construction, in the following man
 ner ; one in his garden ; one on the top of St. Thomas's hill, at
 fifteen feet from the ground, which was nearly on a level with
 a third placed on the tcp of the high tower of Canterbury ca
 thedral, at about 220 feet from the ground.       From observations
 taken w;th these instruments he found, that
     " The local variations in the day lime seemed to be regulated
 by the general degree of heat only, without being affected by
 any other particular disposition of the atmosphere, or the clear
                                                                ness

                   New Outlines      of Chemical Philosophy.                439
 ness    or cloudiness of the sky, as the nocturnal variations were.
  In the mouth of September, when the glasses rose from 60p to
  70', the heat at the lower station constantly exceeded the heat
  at the ripper station ; and in some measure proportionably, as
 the weather was hotter*.
      " That the clearness of the sky should contribute to the cool
 ness of the air in the night, is not at all surprising ; but that,
 whenever the sky becomes clear, the cold should seem to arise
 from the earth, and be found in the greatest degree, as long as
 it continues clear, in the lowest situation, seems a little extraor
 dinary : this however seemed to be the case, both in the warmer
 and in the colder weather, during the whole time these observa
 tions were tnken.          About noon, on the 3d of January, the sky
 becoming clear,       the   air got cooler ; and going into my garden
 about eight in the evening, I perceived the surface of the ground,
 which had been wet by the rain in the forenoon, begin to be
 frozen.       Looking immediately at the thermometer, I saw the
 mercury at 33 j° ; and observing a piece of wet linen hanging
 near the glass, not five feet from the ground, I took it into my
 hand, and found it not in the least frozen ; by which it ap
 peared, that the degree of cold which had frozen the surface of
 the ground, had not then ascended to the glass, nor to the linen,
 and consequently had not b?en communicated to the air five or
,six feet above the earth.          The next day I found, as expected, a
 considerable local variation ; the index for the cold of the night
 in the garden being at 32°, that on the hill being 35;°, and that
 on the top of the town at 37|°.              Probably the weather did not
 continue clear      the  whole night :    if it had,. it is likely the degree
 of cold would have been found pjoportionablv greater at every
 station.      On the morning of the 4th, there fell a misty rain,
 which continued only till noon, when the sky became clear
 again, and continued so till the 7th ; during which time the
 nocturnal heights of the thermometers differed considerably
 from each other ; but on the sky's becoming cloudy, the local
 variation ceased f."
     To confirm in a more particular manner the foregoing obser
 vations respecting a remarkable refrigeration, which in clear-
 weather takes place in the night near the earth's surface, Mr.
 Six continued his journal, with the omission of a few days only,
 from July 1784 till July 1785.
   .
     * " As i he heat at the lower station exceeded the heat at the tipper ones,
 when the weather wan hut; and equally so, when th* sky was cloudy, as
 well as when it was char; it appears, that the glass at th<i lower station
 was not materially affected      by the reflection of the sun's rays from tat
 earth, as at first I apprehended it would be."
     f Phil. Trans- abr. vol. xv. p. 609.
                                      Ee4

440              Hew Outlines       of Chemical Philosophy.
     " From     these observations       it appears, that a greater diminu
tion of heat frequently        takes    place near the earth in the night
time, than at any elevation in the atmosphere within the limits
of Mr. Six-s inquiry ; and that the greatest degrees of cold are
at such times always found nearest to the surface of the earth }
that this is a constant and regular operation of nature, under
certain circumstances and dispositions of the atmosphere, and
takes place at all seasons of the year ; that this difference never
happens in any considerable degree but when the air is still,
and the sky perfectly unclouded ; but when the moistest va
pour, such as dews and fogs, did not, as far as he could perceive,
at all impede, but rather increase, the refrigeration.                   In very
severe frosts, when the air frequently deposits a great quantity
of frozen vapour, he generally found it greatest ; but the excess
of heat, which in day-time, in the summer season, was found
at the lower station, in the winter diminished almost to no
thing *."
     The truth of these experiments may be verified by a few fa-r
miliar observations.
     When the moisture in the air begins to be frozen in the night,
hoar-frost is seen upon the bare ground before it is formed upon
the grass, trees, and the roofs of houses ; but in the morning it
 vanishes from the bare ground some time before it ceases to ap
pear upon the grass and higher objects.                 Hence it is evident,
that under certain circumstances, the air is usually some degrees
warmer by day and colder by night, close tp the ground, than
 at a few inches above it.
     These variations of local heat are the effects of that universal
law of nature which causes the ordinary vicissitudes* of tempera
 ture, that are daily taking place in pur atmosphere.
     It has already been advanced in these outlines, that no in
 crease of temperature can be produced unless thermogen and
photogen be united to matter \.
     In the present instance, the solar influence increases the tem
 perature of tho air, and the thermogen that it contains.                   This
 element, having its temperature increased, attracts the photogen
 from the earth : hence a greater degree of heat is generated upon
 the surface of the ground than at a few feet above it.
     But as soon as the sun descends below the horizon, the tem
 perature of the thermogen contained in the air diminishes, and
  its attraction lor photogen gradually decreases till the attraction
  of the earth for that element commences, in consequence of
 which the photogen returns to the earth, and a diminution of
 temperature takes place upon the surface of the bare ground.
     f Phil. Trans, abr, vol. xvi. p. 404.     t PW.  Mag. vol. xliii. p. 349.

                       On the Sublimation          of Silica.                   441
before any alteration is perceived upon objects which stand only
a few inches above it.
  Lynn, Dec.   ip,   1814.                                       Ez. WaLKER.
                             [To   be continued.]
LXIX. On Ike Sublimation            of   Silica.       By   J.   MxeCuLLoeft,
  M,D. F.L.S. Chemist to               the Ordnance,     and Lecturer on
     Chemistry nt the Royal         Military       Academy at IVoolwich,
     V. Pi. Geol. Soc*
Some years ago, being in pursuit of another object,    mixture          a
of the oxides of tin and lead was exposed to the heat of an air
furnace in an English crucible, to the top of which was luted an
other of the same sort.      This apparatus was allowed to remain
in the fire for some hours.      No account of the heat was taken,
but have on former occasions produced in the same furnace a
     I
heat sufficient to contract one of Mr. Wedgwood's original clay
pieces to the 130th and 140th degree of his scale.         On remov
ing the crucibles, the insides of both from the bottom of the
 lowermost to within a third part of the top of the uppermost,
 were found covered with white brilliant filamentous crystals
crossing each other in all directions.          concluded that they
                                                     I
 consisted of the oxide of tin, or perhaps that of lead, and subjected
 them to the obvious experiments necessary for ascertaining this
circumstance.      Failing to confirm this supposition,      then con
                                                                  I
jectured   that they might   consist of silex.  The   quantity     pro      I
 cured scarcely amounted to half a grain, and        therefore divided
                                                            I
it  into two parts, that might have the satisfaction of confirm
                             I
ing or refuting my own trials         by
                                     comparison with those of some
 chemical friend.      Mr. Aikin was so good as to undertake the
 examination of the reserved portion, and from his well known
 accuracy, the Society will naturally place confidence in our mu
 tual results.   On igniting them in successive portions of borax
 and of pure potash, they were dissolved.      The solution was then-
 neutralized, and     few light flakes fell down, which were redis-
                      a
 solved in muriatic aeid.     This solution being evaporated to a
 transparent jelly, was ignited        by
                                      the blow-pipe, and became in
 soluble in acids.    I was very desirous of obtaining     second spe
                                                                  a
  cimen, and repeated the same process many times for that end,
 but in vain.  I   cannot pretend to account for this accidental ap
 pearance, and only regret that       was unable to ensure
                                      I                         at will.it
 There can be no doubt that they were crystals of silica, however
                *     From the Geological Transactions, vol.      ii.
                                                                             difficult

  442                         Qit Electricity.
  difficult we rhay fmd it to form them at pleasure, and the rarity
 of the occurrence only     serves to prove that there are properties
  and relations of this substance with which wc are as yet unac
  quainted.    An agreeable confirmation of this fact appeared some
  time after in an observation of Vauquelin, copied in Tilloch's
  Journal for 1809, with which the members of this Society are
  dpubtless well acquainted.      In a geological view it may perhaps
 he worthy of record, as not only establishing the volatility of
  silica, but serving to prove that this substance may be crystal
  lized froni the state of vapour, as sulphur, some neutral salts,
  and somey metals are known to be.           How far this property of
 vaporization and crystallization from that state may be possessed
 by the other earths, or by earthy compounds, as it undoubtedly
 is by all the metals, must be determined by future observations.
 Possibly we may thus gain a step on which to rest, in the investi
 gation of the difficult subject of mineral veins, and the arrange
  ment of the crystallized substances which occupy their cavities.
      The possibility also of explaining by this process the crystalli
 zation of the delicate filamentous zeoiites which occupy the ca
 vities of amygdaloids, will readily occur to every mineralogist.
 LXX.      On Electricity.     By Francis Ronalds, Esq.         Com-
                         municated by the Author.
                            To  Mr. Tillock,
 Sir, — By     a paper of Mr. De Luc, in your Number for October
 last, I perceive that he has rather misconceived the inferences
which I drew from some experiments on the variable action of
the electric column, described in your Number 1 94 ; having
stated my opinion to be, that moisture has very little effect on
that action.      He seems also to imagine that the results of those
experiments     were  intended to be opposed to his, and refers to
some which were made with Dr. Lind, to prove that dryness di
minishes the action.
     I cannot discover, however, that I have drawn such a con-
elusion, and had no intention to dispute with a philosopher of
go great and universally acknowledged acuteness, the truth of
a fact which his own elegant experiments have fully esta
blished.     Had not the last paragraph of the paper above men
tioned escaped Mr. De Luc-s attention,           I think the mistake
could not have happened.         I there state as a probable cause of
the power of .the column supported with three stems of glass,
not having been increased by a rise of temperature in its usual
                                                              degree,

                            On Electricity.                          443
degree, that the disk of paper had possibly been deprived of »
part of the water which appears necessary to its action by the
alkali.                                •
    Mr. De Luc-s valuable experiments       and observations lead to
the conclusion, that the presence of water, or of some conducting
fluid, in the substances which have been hitherjo interposed be
tween the metals, is necessary to the accumulation of electricity.
Whether this effect is occasioned by the presence of water only, be
cause a conducting fluid is essential ? which I take to l>e his opinion ;
Whether water acts merely as a conductor, differing in some un^
known electric relation from the metals ? which I imagine to be
that of Mr. Singer ; or, Whether any kind of decomposition is
necessary? are questions not vet determined; but I have no doubt
the researches of those intelligent gentlemen will contribute very
materially to elucidate the subject.
    Mr. De Luc also supposes, of course, that I have not been
aware of the effect of a moist atmosphere, to increase the power
of the column :- but I was induced to place moistened cards in
the receiver with the column and hygrometer, in order to com
pare the effect of moisture on both instruments, suspecting,
certainly not being fully aware of its influence.        I was also in
duced by the observations of Mr. De Luc in the paper above re
ferred to, to undertake the following experiment, for the pur
pose of examining, more closely, this influence ; and, if possible,
of ascertaining what increments of moisture coincided with dif
ferent electrical intensities.
    About half the interior surface of a tall glass receiver was
covered with a piece of linen.      A column of ubout 800 groups
of zinc, silver, aud paper, connected by a silken cord passing
through their centres, was suspended in this receiver, by a cop
 per wire attached to the arm of a balance, and the balance was
 insulated and connected with an electrometer.           Thus I could
 weigh the water which was absorbed by the column when the
 air of the receiver was rendered moist, by moistening the linen
 from the upper opening; and the insulation of th# balance was
 so well preserved, that I could produce extreme moisture iu
 the receiver, without sensibly injuring it ; which was ascertained
 by means of an electrometer charged much more highly than
 the column could at any time charge the other.          But the silken
 cord, no doubt, became more conducting as moisture penetrated
 it ; to which circumstance I attribute some of the results which
 might otherwise appear anomalous.           The divergence of the
 electrometer was measured by an arc placed under the gold-
 leaves, and divided into tenths of an inch : an hygrometer and
 thermometer were also placed in the receiver.
                                                                   Time.

444                            On Electricity,
                  Time.            Weight. Elect. Hygr.
                      H. M.        OZ. GRS.
        Nov.   12.    3 20  P.M. 3 170          8    .50|      57
                      4 30          3 172     11      71       57
                      6 0           3 176     14      82       54
                     11   0         3 184     12      80       54
               13.   11  30 A.M.    3 190     12      90       51
   This experiment seems to prove that water had produced its
utmost effect on the intensity of the electricity when the column
weighed 3 oz. 1 76 grs. at the temperature of 54 ; but 1 observed
that when the column was driest, if the electricity was taken off
by touching the cap of the electrometer, it rose again to its for
mer divergence rather slowly ; and when it was taken off whilst
the column contained most moisture, it rose to the greater part
of its former divergence almost as quickly as the hand could be
withdrawn. My next object was therefore to compare the in
crements of moisture with the frequency of the divergence, which
I conceive to be a measure of the quantity of electricity arriving
at a certain intensity which the column can give off.                 It was
therefore detached from the balance, and suspended before a fire
one hour and a half, when the effect on the electrometer was nil ;
it was then replaced upon the balance, and the following results
were obtained.
          Time.             Weight. Elect. Hygr. Therm.       Time required lit
                                                               recover divert,.
             H.M.           OZ. GRS.
        8.   I 30 P.M. 3 49             0      61       55
             2   15          3   55     2      60 J     55$     3   minutes
             3 15            3   60    10      61       55      3f  ditto
             4 15            3   65    10-     61       55|     1   ditto
           10   30           3   72    10i     66       55*     1   ditto
            11     0         3   73    10*     66       55 1*
        9. 11   30 A.M.      3   75     9|     63       54      30 seconds
   To avoid the objection which might be made to the silk thread,
I constructed a short column whose extremities were pressed by
brass plates, which were connected by glass stems covered with
sealing-wax in such manner that it did not touch them, and
-was surrounded by a cylinder containing            a moistened piece of
linen, so that the column was submitted to the action of an
atmosphere of perfect humidity; but the insulation of its supports
was perfectly preserved.         But as I could not conveniently weigh
this column,       and   as it was  necessary to have its disks of larger
   * I touched the electrometer ten times during the preceding ten minutes,
and found the divergence fully recovered to 10J at llh. lm.
                                                                   diameter

                                 On Slaffa.                            445
diameter and more pressed together, the effects were much less
striking, although they were fully sufficient to proye that no mora
electricity escaped by the insulators or the air from the upper
extremity when the latter was moistened than when it was drier.
   I   would draw from these experiments the following con
clusions  ; but I do not wish to insist very confidently on their
validity.
   1 . The quantity of electricity arriving at a certain intensity,
which a column of this kind is capable of manifesting, as mea
sured by the vibrations of the pendulum apparatus, or the striking*
of a gold-leaf electrometer, in a given time, is great in proportion
to its degree of moisture within certain limits.
   2. Under certain circumstances this greater quantity, thus
manifested in a moist state of the column, does not produce
greater intensity than when it is in a drier state.
   3. Since electricity does not pass off in one of the above
cases by the insulators or the air more copiously than in the other,
it must pass by the water, which is the cause of Its accumulation ;
otherwise the intensity would be proportional to the quantity.
   4. If the last proposition is correct, the great quantity and
low intensity of the electricity produced by Voltaic batteries
charged by acids and salts, may be attributed to a similar cause.
                      I am, sir, your humble servant,
   Hammersmith, Dec. 16, 1814.                   Francis Ronalds.
 LXXI.    On Slaffa.   By J. MacCulloch, M.D. F.L.S. Che
   mist to the Ordnance, and Lecturer on Chemistry at the Royal
   Military Academy at Woolwich. V. Pr. Geol. Soc*
 If the " Description  and Natural History" of Staffa, by Faujas
 de St. Fond, or the various other descriptions which have bee«
 published of this island by naturalists and by tourists, had ex
 hausted the subject,    I should have forborne to have troubled the
 Society with any remarks on a place which ought now to be well
 known.
     But a visit to this celebrated island having given me an op
 portunity of remarking a circumstance before unnoticed, and of
 some importance in its natural history, I think it my duty to lay
 it before the Society.      In so doing, I find it difficult to avoid
 entering rather minutely into the general description of the island,
 particularly since a second examination, besides confirming the
 remarkable fact I at first noticed, has enabled me to investigate
  its structure more completely.    I shall doubtless still leave some
  thing to be corrected by those who may eome after me.               A
              * From the
                         Geological Transactions, vol,   ii.
                                                               multiplicity

446                           On Staffd.
ninltiplicity of objects pressing at once for regard, a visit alwavi
necessarily hurried from the impassibility of remaining long on
the island, a boisterous sea, and a stormy atmosphere, are hostile
to that accuracy of observation which may preclude future cor
 rections.
     The circumference of Staffa is estimated at about two miles.
 It forms a sort of table land of an irregular surface, bounded on
 all sides by perpendicular cliffs, varying in altitude and broken
 into numerous recesses and promontories.
     It is intersected by one deep cut, scarcely to be called a valley,
 which divides the higher and more celebrated columnar part
 from the remainder of the island.        At the highest tides this more
 remarkably     columnar  part  which  forms  its southwestern side, ap
 pears    to terminate almost    abruptly in the  water, but the retiring:
 tide shows a causeway of broken columns forming a sort of
 beach at its foot.     Round the other sides of the island there is
 also a beach of varying breadth, consisting of detached fragments,
 and of rocks jutting out into the sea in many irregular directions.
 This beaeh, when the weather is perfectly calm, and the swell
 off the shore, will, under due precautions, afford landing in va
 rious places, but it is on the eastern side that the most numerous
 landing places occur.       Various narrow creeks sheltered by the
 island itself from the predominant western swell, admit of easy
 access in moderate weather, provided the wind is in any direction
 from SW. to NW. And for the encouragement of the mineralo
gist, who mav be terrified at the exaggerated reports of this
 difficulty, I can assure hina that I have landed on Staffa when
the vessels that navigate this sea have had their sails reefed, and
the boatmen of Iona and Ulva have called it impracticable.           The
love of the marvellous has conferred on StafFa a terrific reputa
tion, which a greater resort has discovered to be. somewhat akin
 to that of Seylla and Charybdis.
     It is easy to perceive from the southward, that with this flat
disposition of its surface, and notwithstanding its irregularities,
Staffa possesses a gentle inefeation towards the N.E. although
no opportunity is afforded for ascertaining the precise dip.         It is
not of importance to ascertain       it,  nor can it    amount to more
than five or six degrees of variation from the horizontal plane.
    The highest of the perpendicular faces which bound \t, rise
about 6Q or 70 feet above the high-water mark, and these are
on the south-western side, where the mast remarkable columns
and where the great caves exist.
    The greatest elevation of the island cannot be more than 20     1
feet above the level of the sea.       There are no sunk rocks round
it
 ;    but the water deepens rapidly from the shore, and admits of
large vessels coasting   it    elose at hand, provided they have        a
leading wind.                                                     There
                                                           :

                                                                 '
                                 On Slajfii.                        447
     There is a soil of considerable depth on the surface, and it is
 covered with herbage.
     It is almost superfluous to say vhat the whole island consists
of a    mass  of basalt. I have indeed been told, that a sandstone
 bed has been seen at low water on the southwestern side, but I
 had not an opportunity of observing it. This is the part of the
island, where, if in any place, it should, from the inclination of
 the strata, be perceived; and there is no reason to doubt the as
sertion, as we find most of the trap rocks of the Western Islands
lying on beds of sandstone. Is is equally superfluous to describe
 the basalt, since specimens of it are in every one-s possession.
 It may be sufficient to remark, that its texture is more compact,
 more crystalline, and less earthy than that of basalt in general,
 and that it is at the same time less homogeneous, less black,
 more fragile, and more sonorous.         But it would be idle to at
 tempt to apply different terms to the endless varieties of the rock*
 of this tribe.
     This basalt exhibits two modifications : the columnar, so often
 described, and the amorphous, which is generally more or less
 amygdaloidal, containing imbedded zeolites of different sorts.
 I saw no examples of basaltic breccia, or of trap tuff, as it is im
 properly called.
     It is in the amorphous basalt that the zeolites are most abun
 dant.      The nodules vary from the size of a pea to that of a
 hen-s egg and upwards, and generally exhibit specimens of ra
 diated mesotype and of analcime.           The cubical zeolites (cha-
 basite) are of rare occurrence, and the mesotype is seldom gra
 nular, and never, as far as I saw, «apillary.      The lamellar variety
 of stilbite is occasionally found filling the intervals of approximate
  columns.     I did not observe any zeolites in the larger and more
 perfect columns, but in the smaller and more irregular ones they-
 occur, though rarely.
     If we were to view the island only from the southwestern side,      ,
 and at half tide, we should conclude that it has been formed of
 three distinct deposits, or beds of basalt.        Of these the lower
  most appears in some places amorphous, but it is not easy to see
 enough of it to judge whether it actually forms a continuous bed.
  It is only from the analogy of Canna, and the other basaltic
 islands of this sea, that we should be tempted to generalize this
  conclusion.
     The next bed is that which is divided into those large co
  lumns which form the most conspicuous feature of Staffa, and it
 varies from 30 to 50 feet in thickness.        The upper one appears
  at a distance to he ah uniform mass of amorphous basalt ; but on
/-a nearer inspection it is found to consist of small columns,      laid
  and entangled in every possible direction, often horizontal, and
                                                               generally

   448                              On Staffa.
   generally curved.      It is this bed which forms the ponderous cap
   (as it is called)  which   crowns the summit of the grand facade.
      Although the great columnar bed occupies but a small por
   tion of the whole exterior face of the island, the columnar form
  is perhaps predominant throughout the whole.              Yet it would be
  equally difficult, as useless, to attempt to determine its propor
  tion to the amorphous part where they are irregularly mixed, as
  they are at the northern and eastern sides.          On these sides also
  the division into distinct beds such as I have described above, is
  by no means easy to trace, and possibly it does not exist.
      To those who have seen the beautifully regular columns of the
  Giant's Causeway, those of Staffa will appear rude and compa
  ratively shapeless. They no where exhibit that accuracy of de
  sign which is so conspicuous in the former, and are rarely seen
  of any considerable length without some incurvation.                  But
  their thickness is much greater, since they often attain a diame
  ter of four feet.     They vary perpetually in the number of their
  angles, the pentagonal and hexagonal being the most common,
  and those of an inferior number of angles being less common
  than those of a superior.       Their joints are very irregularly placed,
  and are frequently wanting through a considerable length. When
  separated, the touching surfaces are either flat, or marked by a
 slight respective concavity and convexity.          In many places, and
 most conspicuously in the great cave, the angles of the upper
 joint are considerably and obliquely truncated at the point of
 contact with the lower one.             But I did not perceive any in
 stance where a corresponding projection of the end of the in
 ferior angle rose to cover the truncation, a circumstance of such
 frequent occurence at the Giant's Causeway.               I may add, that
 the articulated columns        are most remarkable in the great cave,
 and that the straightest columns generally exhibit the most fre
 quent articulations.        The curved columns visible at the cave
 ealled the Clamshell cave, extend for 40 or 50 feet without a
joint.
     The disposition    of the variously curved columns above this
 small cave, is perhaps one of the most striking features of the
 whole island.       But it will be time enough to speculate on the
formation of a curved basaltic column, when we have something
rational to offer ma that of a straight one.
     A very extraordinary aggregation of columns lies off this cave,
forming a conical detached rock, corruptly called Boo sha la.
The Gaelic name Buachaille (Bavxo\o;l) the herdsman, is com
monly applied to conspicuous single rocks all over the country.
This rock consists of variously inclined columns resting against
each other, and meeting till they form a conical body, which
appears to repose on a bed of curved and horfcoatal columns.

                                        On Slaffa.                             449
    It   is superfluous to attempt           a description of the great cave.
The language of                wonder has already been exhausted on      it,
                                                                         and
that or simple description must fail in an attempt where hyper
bole has done its utmost.               Imay however remark, that its di
mensions appear to have been over-rated, in consequence of the
mode of measurement adopted, and that the drawings of                           it
which have been engraved, give                 an aspect of geometrical re
                                                 it
gularity which            far from possessing.
                         it    is                     Its superiority in point
of effect to the greatest efforts of architecture, might admit of
dispute   if there were any disputing about feelings.             Another cave
occurs at    a  short distance westward, of inferior dimensions, and
inaccessible unless when               can be entered in
                                       it                   a   boat, an event
requiring      a  combination      of   circumstances    of  no  very common
occurrence at Staffa.          Large fissures are seen above this cave,
with an incipient detachment of considerable masses, threatening
a  ruin which        perhaps not far distant.
                       is                               Beyond this there       is
still another cave which appears to pass through the promontory
in which     it lies, but equally or even more difficult of access, and
still involved in uncertainty.            Many other caves of less note are
to   be seen   in  various parts of the cliff around the island, into
which the sea breaks with               noise resembling that of heavy and
                                        a
 distant ordnance.
    In   aletter transmitted last year to the Secretary of this So
 ciety,  I  took notice of a fact of considerable importance in the
natural history of this island, which had before escaped the re
 marks of visitors.        This is, the occurrence of       a  bed of alluvial
matter    on  some parts     of  its  surface, containing fragments of the
older rocks.            Itmost easily seen at that side of the island
                               is
which faces Iona, and on the summit of the cliffs of semicir         a
cular bay opening in that direction.              The bed   is  here broke*ri at
the edge of the cliff, so as to expose its whole thickness for a
 considerable extent.         But the same appearance may also be ob
served immediately above the ordinary landing place, where the
 bed has also been broken.             The stones which     it contains are all
 rounded, and of various, often considerable dimensions, and they
 exhibit specimens of granite, gneiss, micaceous schistus, quartz,
 and red sandstone.         Together with these, are some rolled pieee3
 of basalt.
     Here then         a circumstance in the mineral history of Staffa,
                        is
 adventitious           true, but involving difficulties of no small im
                   it If it
                              is
 portance.           we cast our eyes on the map, we shall per
 ceive that               embayed
                              is            a large sinuosity formed in the
                                            in
 island of Mull, and nearly inclosed on the opposite side                 byIona
 and the Treshanish islands.             Beyond   the  latter,   asecond line    is
 drawn       byTirey and Coll while to the north, but at greater
                                       ;                             a
 distance, are placed the islands of Muck, Rum, Egg, Canna, and
     Vol. 44. No. 200. D(fcv 1814.                     F.
                                                        f                   Sky,

450                         On Stqtfa.
Sky.      The whole island of Mull, with the exception of the Ros^
is of a trap formation, containing however some partial tracts of
sandstone and other rocks which I need not notice.           The islands
of Ulva and the Treshanish, with their dependent rocks, are
also of trap formation.        So are the islands which lie to the
north, and which I have enumerated 'above.            Iona however, to
gether     with Coll  and  Tirey,  consists  principally of gneiss and
mica slate traversed by gnmite veins, rocks which also form the
chief parts of the coasts of Lorn, Appin, Morven, and Ardpa-
murchan.
     It is to the former, then, that we must look for the origin of
the rolled stones which cover Staffa,           if, limiting the great
 operations     of nature by   our  own   narrow   views,  and the ages
which have contributed to change the face of the globe             by cur
 own short span, we are led to seek for that solution which may
 appear the least difficult.    Even then, we must admit that Staffa
 has formed part of one continuous land with the islands of Coll,
 Tirey, and Mull, since no transportation could have been effected
without the cxist«ice at some period of          a  continuous declivity
between them.
     The language which this circumstance speaks      is    not obscure,
and the nature of these changes allows of little dispute.          If we
 admit this obliteration of so large   a    portion of solid land, and
 consider that a    deep sea now rolls above the foundations of for
 mer mountains, we have no further difficulties to obstruct us in
 accounting for the numerous and distant accumulations of trans
 ported materials which occur over the whole surface of the
 earth.     The same power, whatever       it  was, that hollowed the
 great sinuosity of Mull, might well remove the solid matter tha^
 once filled the valleys which now separate Mont Blanc from the
 ridge of Jura.
     Butif,   appalled at the supposed magnitude of those changes,
 and   at  the period of time which must have elapsed to complete
 them, we suppose that the island of Staffa was elevated from
the bottom of the sea in its present detached form, and retaining
on its summit a portion of the bed of loose matter deposited
under the present waters, another order of phaenomena crowds
on us no less important, and involving circumstances almost
equally repugnant to the visible operations of nature.
    The appearances are perhaps insufficient to enable us to de
cide between two difficulties of equal magnitude, nor        is   it here
necessary to enter further on that question.          I   mav also leave
it  to those who have engaged more deeply in such investigations,
to determine whether, in the supposition of the first of these
causes-, whether the wasting of the land has arisen from the gra
dual action of natural operations, or the more violent efforts of an
                                                            occasional

        An   Account   of some   "Experiments on     Animal Heat.       45 1
occasional destroying force.        It is my humble task to point out
 a fact, as a contribution to that mass of accumulating informa
 tion on which a consolidated fabric may at some future time be
erected. • Yet the idle spectator or enthusiastic lover of Nature,
who shall hereafter view this interesting spot, may, when he
contemplates these grand revolutions, learn to wonder less at
the efforts of that power which has hollowed the cave of Fingal,
and submerged in the depths of the oceau those columns which
seemed destined for eternity. '
LXXII.       An Account of some Experiments on Animal Heat.
                   By John Davy, M.D. F.R.S*                  - •
The      recent inquiries of Mr. Brodie have rendered questionable
the different prevailing hypotheses relative to animal heat, and
have shown that fresh investigation is necessary, before we can
expect to arrive at any accurate theory.                                   ,
     In the present uncertain state of our knowledge, three cir
cumstances are particularly deserving of attention, viz. the rela
tive capacities of venous and arterial blood for heat, their com
parative temperatures, arid the temperatures of different parts of
the animal body.
    On the first of these subjects we possess only the experiments
of Dr. Crawford, which I believe have not yet been repeated,
notwithstanding they form the basis of his hypothesis.
     On the second, little inquiry has been made, and especially of
late years, since the improvement of the thermometer.
     And on the third, the observations that have been collected are
very few in number, and, with the exception of those of Messrs.
Hunter and Carlisle, are scarcely, perhaps, deserving of confi
dence.                                - . .
    Such were the inducements that led me to the consideration
of each of these subjects apart, and to endeavour to acquire by
experiment some more certain knowledge respecting them. The
experiments that I have made will be described in the two fol
lowing sections, and in the last will be offered the few remarks,
and conclusions which naturally arise, and are fairly deducible,
from the results.
                                            "
   1. On the Capacities     of  venous and    arterial Blood for Heat.
     I must  premise, that my object has been to endeavour to ascer
tain the relative capacities of venous and arterial blood for heatj
rather than their exact specific caloric.         The latter, from many
 '  -    *  From the Philosophical Transactions for 1814;' psrtii.
                                   F f2           ,                circum

i
452      An Account of some Experiments        on Animal Heat.
circumstances, is difficult to be accomplished ; whilst the formes
is comparatively easy, and in a theoretical point of view is pro
bably equally useful.
     I have employed both the methods commonly used. I shall
mention most of the experiments that I have made, without
noticing the repetitions of them, and shall begin with those on
the times of cooling of equal volumes of venous and arterial
blood.
     The blood used was from the jugular vein and the carotid
 artery of a lamb about four months old.             ft was received in
 bottles ; and to remove the fibrin, which is a great impediment
 in experiments of this kind, it was immediately stirred with a
 wooden rod.      In respect to colour, the difference between the
 venous and arterial blood was not so great as in the sheep-s ; and
 this in a great variety of instances 1 have always observed, the
 venous being of a less dark hue.         The specific gravity of the
 Venous blood, without the fibrin, was found to be 1050, and that
 of the arterial 1047.
     A glass bottle equal in capacity to 25 1 S grains of water, and
 weighing 1332 grains, was filled respectively with water and
 venous and arterial blood of the temperature of the room 62,
 about four hours after the blood had been drawn, during which
 time each bottle had been closely corked. A delicate thermo
 meter, by meahs of a perforated cork, was placed in the middle
 of the liquid. The bottle was then plunged into water of the
 temperature 140 Fahrenheit; and when the mercury had risen to
  1 20, the bottle was quickly wiped and suspended in the middle
 of the room, and the progress of cooling was noticed every five
 minutes, till the thermometer had fallen to 80.         The following
 Were the general results obtained :
             Water cooled from 120 to 80 in 91 minutes
             Arterial blood in . .    . .  . .    89
             Venous blood in                      S8
 Considering therefore the capacity of water for heat to be denoted
 by 1000, neglecting the effect of the glass bottle producing a
 difference only of about half a minute, and the same in each in
 stance, and dividing the times of cooling by the specific gravity,
 the relative capacities of venous and arterial blood without
 fibrin appear to be as -92 1 and "934.
     In the following experiments the same kind of blood and the
 same quantity was used as in the preceding.        The mixtures were
 made in a very     thin  glass receiver containing a delicate ther
 mometer.      The temperature of the room was 66.
     Hot water temperature 121 ; cold water 61. Mixture of the
  two 90, after two minutes 89, after three 88, and after eight 87.
       , , t                                                    Venous

        An    Account   of some Experiments    on Animal Heat.     453
    Venous blood 121.          Water 62-5.    Mixture 89; after three
 minutes S8-5 ; after seven 87.
     Arterial blood 121.      Water 63-5.   Mixture 89-5 ; after three
 minutes 88-5, and after seven 87.
     Now, allowing about one degree of the cooling effect to have
 been produced by the receiver indicated by the admixture of the
 hot and cold water, calculating the quantity of blood used from
the knowledge of its volume and specific gravity, employing the
formula given by Professor Robison, which consists in multiply
ing respectively the weight of the water and the blood bv the
 change of temperature, and dividing the first product by the se
cond, the quotient or specific caloric for venous blood appears to
be as "812, and for arterial as -814, results very similar to those
 I have obtained with the blood of the sheep.
    In the remaining experiments, blood with the fibrin present
was employed, and with this exception they were perfectly simi
lar to those already described.
    The blood used to ascertain its time of cooling was obtained
from a sheep; - and one day the vein was opened, and on the
next the artery.       The capacity of the bottle employed exceeded
that of the first by one ounce measure of water ; but it was equally
thin. The air of the room was of temperature 69.
             Water cooled from 120 to 80 in 118 minutes
             Venous blood in                      112
             Arterial blood in                    113
And hence, as the latter was of specific gravity 1049, its capa
city for heat seems to be as -913 ; and as the former was of spe
cific gravity 1051, its capacity appears to be "903.
    In the following experiment, equal volumes of fluid blood and
of water were used ; which was easily accomplished by means
of a thin bottle with a large mouth, to which a cork was adapted,
with a perforation more than sufficiently large to admit the bulb
of a very delicate thermometer, and of course to allow, when the
bottle was filled to the brim, the excess to flow out on the in
troduction of the cork, which was always similarly placed.         To
retard the process of cooling, the bottle was closely surrounded
by a thick layer of what is commonly called cotton-wool.            Its
capacity was equal to five ounce measures of • water, or 2400
grains.     It was first filled with cold water, which, when its tem
perature had been ascertained, was thrown into the receiver
before used ; it was next filled with hot water of temperature
about 110, so that the heat of the glass might be nearly the
same as that of the blood : and lastly, when the vein or artery
had been opened, the bottle was immediately emptied and filled
with blood, the temperature of which was ascertained bv the
                                  F f3                       the-rmo

454      An Account of some Experiments      on  Animal Heal.
thermometer in less than a quarter of a minute.          The mixture
now was instantly made, and by the same thermometer the
highest temperature after mixture was discovered.
     The four following trials were made on the blood of two lambs,
both about five months old. The temperature of the air was 60.
     Cold water 57-5.        Venous blood 100.    Mixture 80 j after
one minute 78§5.
     Water 58. Arterial blood 103. Mixture 80; after one mi
nute 79.
     Water 58. Venous blood 101 -5.          Mixture 79; after one
 minute 78-25.
     Water 58,     Arterial blood 106'5.     Mixture 81 ; after one
minute     80.
     The rate of cooling was not noticed after the first minute had
 elapsed, as the blood then generally began to coagulate.          The
 specific gravity was only ascertained in the two last trials ; that
of the venous blood was found to be 1050, and that of the arterial
  1049 ; and hence allowing, as before, one degree of the cooling
effect to be produced by the receiver, the capacity of venous
 blood for heat appears to be -852, and that of arterial blood.
 -839.
     It i6 evident that these trials admit of less accuracy than the
 preceding ; and much more confidence, it appears to me, is due
 to the third series of experiments ; so that, if required, I should
 be inclined to give the numbers thence deduced, as the greatest
 approximation to the truth.
    2. On the comparative Temperatures of venous and arterial
          Blood, and of different Parts of the animal Body.
     To endeavour to ascertain the comparative temperature of
 venous and arterial blood, I have made a considerable number
  of experiments ; some of which on lambs, sheep, and oxen, it
 will be sufficient for me in this place to describe.      In each in
  stance,   a long incision   was made through the integuments ; the
 jugular vein was laid bare, and the exact seat of the carotid
  artery found.     The vein was then opened, and a small delicate
 thermometer introduced, and thrust about an inch up the vessel
 beyond the wounded part ; and as the bulb of the instrument
  was small, the flow of blood was not stopped.      When the mer
  cury was stationary,    its height was marked.   The carotid artery
  next was divided, and the thermometer was immersed in the
  current of bipod, and left there till it ceased to rise.
      The following are the results of five experiments made on
  lambs, all of which were about three months old.        The. thermo
  meter in the shade stood at 65.
  .                                                         \. Venous

        An Account of some Experiments on Animal Heat.                      "455
         '       !. Venous blood 102-5                 Arterial blood 104
                      _
                             _
                 2.              104                                 105
                 3.                        104                       105
                 4.                        103-5                     105
                                       .
                 5.                        104         .             105
      The following results were obtained from three experiments
-on    sheep, whose exact age I could not ascertain. The thermo
 meter in the shade was GO.
           1 . Venous blood   103-5       Arterial blood 104-5
           2.                  102-5                       104
           3.                  103        -               104
   The experiments on oxen were only two in number.               The
 temperature     of the air was 64.
           1. Venous blood 100           Arterial blood 101-5
           2.                 100                         101
   In both instances the oxen were knocked down before the
vessels were opened ; and as respiration had ceased in conse
quence of the injury of the brain and spinal cord, no difference
of colour, of course, was perceptible between the blood from the
jugular vein and that from the carotid artery.
   These results, so different from what might have been ex
 pected, from the observations of Messrs. Coleman and Cooper
on the temperature of the two sides of the heart, led me to re
peat their experiments.       The experiments in which I place most
 confidence were made on lambs about four months old, and to
these        I
            shall confine myself at present.     In each instance the
animal was killed by the division of the great vessels of the neck ;
an opening was made immediately into the thorax, and a very
delicate thermometer was introduced into the ventricles of the
heart by means of a small incision.        The operation occupied so
short a space df time, that in three instances the right auricle
had not ceased contracting.
       1 . Venous blood . 1 04          Left.                 106
           Arterial          10.5-5     Rectum                105
           Rectum            104        Right ventricle .. 105-5
           Right ventricle 105-5        Left                  1065
           Left       ....   106        Rectum                105
      2. Rectum .            .-.
                             105
                               .
                               .        Right  ventricle .  . 106
         Right ventricle 105          Left                107.
         -
 I   cannot well explain the difference which exists between the
results of the preceding experiments, and those of Messrs. Cole
man and Cooper, which are directly opposite.        Can the mode
in which the animals they experimented on were put to death,
be the cause of the want sf agreement? In death          asphyxia,  by
there    generally an accumulation of blood in the right ventricle;
        is
and    in
        many instances    have observed, when the right
                                   I                  "   ventricle
                                                 Ff4            has

456    An Acccitnt of some Experiments       on Animal Heat.
has been distended with blood, little difference of temperature
                                       *
between   the two sides of the heart.
   To describe all the experiments that I have made to ascer
tain the temperature of different parts of the animal body, would
extend this paper to an unusual length, and there is the less oc
casion for a long description, as the comparative results were
very similar.    It will be sufficient therefore here to notice the
(observations made on the human body, and on that of a lamb.
   That the thermometer might be equally applied to all parts
of the surface, its bulb, in form nearly cylindrical, was fixed to a
small piece of cork, hollowed and lined with fine wool, and thus
half its superficies was applied in each instance. The observa
tions were made on the naked body at seven A. M. immediately
after quitting bed.     The temperature of the air of the room was
70.    The following were the results obtained :
   At the central part of the sole of the foot                 90
   Between the malleolus internus and the insertion of the
tendo Achillis, where the artery is felt                       93
   Over the middle of the tibia "                               9 1 "5
   On the middle of the calf     ...                           93
   Over the popliteal artery at the bend of the knee     ....  95
   Over the femoral artery in the middle of the thigh     ...  94
   Over the middle of the rectus muscle                         91
   Over the great vessels in the groin                         96-5
   About a quarter of an inch below the umbilicus      .....   95
   Over the sixth rib on the left side where the heart is
felt pulsating                                              -,94
   Over the same place in the right                            93
   Under the axilla, the whole surface of the bulb being
applied                                                         98 •
   About   an  hour had   now elapsed from the commencement of
the experiment.      The thermometer again applied to the sole of
the foot rose no higher than 85, five degrees less than at first.
A disagreeable sensation of cold was experienced, and particu
larly in those parts not supplied with large vessels, and out of
the course of the great arteries.       The body remained unplea
santly chilly till breakfast had been taken, and then a slight
degree of pyrexia was perceived; the heat of surface            being
increased, the pulse quickened, and the mouth slightly parched.
After breakfast, the thermometer was applied to both hypochon
driac regions, and the left was found one degree higher than the
right.
   To ascertain the temperature of different parts of the surface
beneath the integuments, the bulb of a thermometer was intro
duced through small incisions about half an inch between the
skin and subjacent parts cf a lamb just dead. The heat of the
                                                              rectum

       An Account of some Experiments on Animal Heat.            457
rectum was first ascertained, as a means of marking the rate of
cooling, and the different parts were then tried in the following
order :
         Venous blood in the jugular vein               105-5
         Arterial blood from the carotid artery   ....  107
         Rectum                                         105-5
         Over the metatarsal bone                       97
         Over the tarsal bone                           90
         Over the knee joint                            102
         About the head of the thigh                    103
         At the groin                                   104
   Nearly a quarter of an hour had been occupied in making
these observations, and the temperature of the rectum was now
found to be 105. The three great cavities were next opened in
the order enumerated.
         Near the lower part of the liver               106
         The substance of the liver ..                 106-5
         The substance of the lung                      106-5
         The left ventricle                            107
         The right ventricle                           106
         The central substance of the brain             104
         Rectum                                         1045
   Surprised   at the  temperature  of the  brain  being lower than
that of the rectum, I was led to repeat the experiment.       It may
be proper to notice a few of the results, as it is a curious cir
cumstance which they confirm.        The four experiments I shall
mention were made on lambs.        As soon as the animal was dead,
the cranium was perforated, and a delicate thermometer intro*
dueed into the central part of the brain.
            1. Brain 104               Rectum 104-75
            2. Brain 104-75            Rectum 105-5
            3. Brain 105-5             Rectum 106-5
            4. Posterior part of the brain 105-5 ; anterior 103.
 Re tum 106-5.
   The temperature of the air at the time was 68. Different
parts of the brain were found to vary considerably in temperature;
the anterior, as already noticed, being lower than the posterior,
and the superficial than the deep-seated parts.
                   3.  Remarks and Conclusions.
   That there is no material difference .between venous and ar
terial blood in respect to specific caloric, excepting what arises
from difference of specific gravity; that the temperature of
arterial blood is higher than that of venous ; and the tempera
ture of the left side of the heart, than that of the right ; and
lastly, that the temperature of parts diminishes as the distance
                                                                   of

458    An Aecount of some Experiments on Animal Heat.
of the parts from the heart increases — are the general results of
                                 • -
the preceding experiments.
   Admitting the accuracy of these experiments, and I think that
they will be found correct when repeated, what are their conse
quences in a theoretical point of view ?
   They axe evidently in direct opposition to Dr. Crawford's
hypothesis ; the essence of which      that the capacity of arterial
                                          is,
blood for heat  is greater than that of venous, that there       no  is
difference of temperature between the two ventricles of the heart,
and in fact that the heat of all parts    nearly the same.
                                                is
   They are more agreeable to, and indeed they even support, the
hypothesis of Dr. Black, that animal heat          produced in the
                                                           is
lungs, and distributed over the whole system          means of the
                                                                by
arterial blood.
   Neither are they inconsistent with that hypothesis which con
siders the production of animal heat as dependent on the energy
of the nervous system, and arising from all the vital actions con
stantly occurring.
   Besides the results of the preceding experiments, many argu
ments may be advanced in opposition to Dt. Crawford's hypo
thesis.        • -   •-  r''--
   As  we never   perceive a difference of capacity in bodies with
out a difference of form or composition        and as very slight dif
                                                 ;
ferences of the former result only from great changes of the latter;
it might be expected     a priori, as no difference, excepting that
of colour, has been detected between venous and arterial blood,
that their specific caloric would be very similar.     From analogy
also, it might  have  been    expected,  that the capacity of arterial
blood for heat would be     much   less than that of water, as water
appears to exceed almost every other fluid, and as the capacity
appears to diminish as the inflammability of compounds increases.
But the strongest arguments against this hypothesis are to be
derived from the recent experiments of Mr. Brodie, and those
of MM. Delaroche and Berard.
   Dr. Black's hypothesis appears to me far 'more satisfactory
than Dr. Crawford's, and capable of explaining         much greater
                                                                a
number of phaenomena         but there are objections even to this
                             ;
hypothesis, which must be removed before         can with propriety
                                                          it
be received.
   The last hypothesis, which        mentioned, that which refers
                                      I
animal  heat  to vital action, has many facts in its support, and
especially the results of Mr. Brodie's curious and interesting ex
periments  ; and the results of my inquiry, as    have already ob
                                                           1
served, are not incompatible with it.        may be said', that the
                                                     It
viscera of the thorax and abdomen are of highest temperature,
because these parts are, as     were; the elaboratories of life and
                                 it                                  ;
                                                                that

                       Notices respecting New Books.                               459
that the heat of the arterial blood, and of the parts best supplied
with this fluid, is greatest, because they lie deepest and abound
most in the principle of life or vital action.   This explanation
was suggested to me by my brother Sir H. Davy. There are
some facts which I have observed agreeable to        but not more   it,
so than to the hypothesis of Dr. Black.        have found the sto
                                                            I
mach of the ox, the pyloric compartment, of       higher temperaa
ture than the left ventricle itself thus, when the latter imme
                                          :
diately after death was 103, the former full of food was 104-5.
I  have also found the temperature of young animals,        whom              in
all the vital actions are most energetic, higher than that of ani
mals arrived at maturity.     may mention here, in illustration of
                                    I
this statement,      fow observations made on infants, as
                       a                                         am not       I
acquainted with any yet published.        In one instance found the       I
heat under the axilla of a child just born 98-5 after twelve hours
                                                                ;
99, and after three days, the same        during the whole of which
                                           ;
time       appeared in perfect health.
          it                                On five other children of
the same age, similar observations were made.         In two instances
of weak infants, the temperature, one hour after birth, was
found not to exceed 96, which            two degrees below the stan
                                          is
dard heat of man in       state of health
                           a                 but their respiration was
                                                   ;
still languid, and the next day the heat of the axilla had risen
in one to 98-5, and in the other to 99*.
    To conclude As in each hypothesis examined, difficulties are
                      :
found to exist from facts or the results of experiments of an un
bending nature, we must at present either suspend theory alto
gether and search for experimenta cruris, or adopt that hypo
thesis which        conformable to the greater number of facts.
                      is
 The first measure        certainly piost philosophical
                           is                               but to the    ;
latter we are naturally most inclined       and;      were questioned
                                                            if  I
which view       preferable,
                 is            should make no hesitation in select
                                  I
 ing Dr.  Black's, which   tome appears both most simple and most
 satisfactory.
                 LXXIII.        Notices respecting New Books.
 The       Second Volume of the Geological Transactions has made
 its appearance, and the    following are its contents                :
      1
      .   On certain Products obtained in the Distillation of Wood,
                                                                                   with
    * The opinion of Haller,    Iam well aware,   contrary to these results, as
                                                       is
 is expressed    in the following paragraph   " Viri feminis calidiores duriori
                                               :
 nempe sunt fabrica, contra pueri aliquanto minus calent quara adulti ho
 mines, ut modo natus puer vix calorem conservet, nisi sollicite et copiose
 vestibus textis.'- — Kicm. Phvs.    p. 297. As this great physiologist seems
                                    ii.
                                                                                     to

  480                  Notices respecting New Books.
  with some Account of Bituminous Substances, arid Remarks on
  Coal. By J. MacCulloch, M.D. F.L.S. Chemist to theOrdnance,
 mud Lecturer on Chemistry at the R. Military Academy at Wool
  wich, and Vice-President of the Geological Society. — 2. Minera-
  logical Account of the Isle of Man.             By J. F. Berger, M.D.
  Member of the Geological Society. — 3. On the Granite Tors of
  Cornwall.        By J. MacCulloch,' M.D. F.L.S. Chemist to the
  Ordnance, and Lecturer on Chemistry at the Royal Military
  Academy at Woolwich, jmd Vice-President of the Geological
  Society. — 4. Notes on the Mineralogy of the Neighbourhood of
  St. David-s, Pembrokeshire.         By John Kidd, M.D. Professor of
  Chemistry in the University of Oxford, and Member of the Geo
  logical Society. — 5. Account of the Brine Springs at Droitwich.
  By Leonard Horner, Esq. F.R.S. and Member of the Geological
  Society. — 6. On the Veins of Cornwall.            By William Phillips,
  Esq. Member of the Geological Society.         —  7 - On the Freshwater
 Formations in the Isle of Wight, with some Observations on the
 Strata over the Chalk in the South-east Part of England. By
 Thomas Webster, Esq. Member of the Geological Society. —
  8. Remarks on the Vitrified Forts of Scotland.              By J. Mac
 Culloch,     M.D.    F.L.S.  Chemist   to   the Ordnance,   and   Lecturer
 on Chemistry at the Royal Military Academy at Woolwich, and
 Vice-President of the Geological Society. — 9. On the Sublima
 tion of Silica.      By J. MacCulloch, M.D. F.L.S. Chemist to the
 Ordnance, and Lecturer on Chemistry at the Royal Military
 Academy at Woolwich, and Vice-President of the Geological
 Society. — 10. Observations on the Specimens of Hippurites from
 Sicily, presented to the Geological Society by the Hon. Henry
 Grey Bennet.         By James Parkinson, Esq. Member of the Geo
 logical Society. — 1 1 . An Account of the Coalfield at Bradford,
 near Manchester.         By Robert Bakewell, Esq. communicated to
 the Society by Dr. Roget, Member of the Geological Society. —
 12. Some Account of the Island of Teneriffe.                By the Hon.
 Henry Grey Bennet, M.P. F.R.S. and President of the Geological
 Society. — 13. On the Junction of Trap and Sandstone, at Stir
ling Castle.       By J. MacCulloch, M.D. F.L.S. Chemist to the
 Ordnance, and Lecturer on Chemistry at the Royal Military
Academy at Woolwich, and Vice-President of the Geological
 Society. — 14. On the OEconomy of the Mines of Cornwall and
 Devon. By John Taylor, Esq. Member of the Geological So
ciety. — 15. On the Origin of a remarkable Class of Organic Im-
to have drawn his inference merely from the circumstances mentioned, it
can have little force, except from the authority of the author; to which
may be opposed an equal authority, not less than that of Hippocrates him
self: he says, in his fourteenth aphorism, " Quas crescunt plurimum habent
 ealidi innati ; senibus autcm pnucus calpr."      .
                                                                  pressions

                       Notices respecting New Books.               461
pressions      occurring   in Nodules of Flint. By the Rev. William
Conybeare,       of Christ  Church, Oxford, and Member of the Geo
logical Society.    —  16. ADescription of the Oxyd of Tin, the Pro
duction of Cornwall ; of the Primitive Crystal and its Modifica
 tions, including an Attempt to ascertain with Precision the Ad->
measurement of the Angles, by means of the. reflecting Goniome
ter of Dr. Wollaston : to which is added, a Series of its crystal
 line Forms and Varieties.        By William Phillips, Esq. Member of
 the Geological Society.      — 17- On some new Varieties of Fossil
 Alcyonia. By Thomas Webster, Esq. Member of the Geological
 Society. — 1 8. Miscellaneous Remarks accompanying a Catalogue
 of Specimens transmitted to the Geological Society. By J. Mac-
 Culloch, M.D. F.L.S. Chemist to the Ordnance, and Lecturer
  on Chemistry at the Royal Military Academy at Woolwich, and
  Vice-President of the Geological Society. — 19. Remarks on se
  veral Parts of Scotland which exhibit Quartz Rock, and on the
  Nature and Connexion of this Rock in general.            By J. Mac-
  Culloch, M.D. F.L.S. Chemist to the Ordnance, and Lecturer
  on Chemistry at the Royal Military Academy at Woolwich, and
  Vice-President of the Geological Society. — 20. Notice relative
  to the Geology of the Coast of Labrador.      By the Rev. Mr. Stein-
  hauer. — 21. Memoranda relative to Clovely, North Devon.           By
  the Rev. J. J. Conybeare, Member of the Geological Society.
   In a Letter addressed to G. B. Greenough, Esq. Vice-President
  of the Geological Society. — 22. On Staffa.       By J. MacCulloch>
   M.D. F.L.S. Chemist to the Ordnance, and Lecturer on Chemistry
   at the Royal Military Academy at Woolwich, and Vice-President
   of the Geological Society. — 23. On Vegetable Remains preserved
   inChalcedony. By J. MacCulloch, MD. F.L.S. Chemist to-the
  Ordnance, and Lecturer on Chemistry at the Royal Military Aca
   demy at Woolwich, and Vice-President of the Geological Society.
   — 24. On the Vitreous Tubes found near to Drigg, in Cumber
   land.
       Practical Observations on    Telescopes.  One volume, 12mo,
                           Bagster, Strand. 1815.
        The public is indebted for this valuable little work to the zeal
    of a very distinguished and philanthropic friend of science, Dr.
    Kitchener, who, unambitious of fame or celebrity for himself,
     (for he has not even announced his name on the title-page,) but
    actuated purely by the love of knowledge, has here put together
    some excellent practical hints for the use of amateurs of the de
    lightful study of astronomy.
        The work may be regarded, in fact, as a grammar^ of astro
     nomy: it describes in a plain, unaffected and circumstantial
     manner, the acquisitions requisite to enable an amateur to pro
                                                                  secute

 462                   Notices respecting Netv Books.
  secute the science with pleasure to himself and advantage td
  others.   The author informs us, that for the last fifteen years
  he has been in possession of every description of reflecting as
 well as refracting telescopes, and has ascertained their powers
  experimentally; modestly assuring his readers, that the consider-*
  able expense of time and money which his pursuits have cos*
 him, will in his estimation be overpaid, should the perusal of his
 treatise " afford any satisfactory intelligence, or be useful to the
  novice in optics and astronomy, by directing him in the choice
 and assisting him in the use of his instruments."
     The author then proceeds to explain his views in publishing
 his treatise.
     " The principal prejudice," he observes, " which has confined
 the study of the minutiae of astronomy to the observatories of the
 state, and of a few opulent individuals,            is,
                                                    that an immense ap
 paratus   of  unwieldy magnitude, extremely costly to purchase,
 difficult to procure, and troublesome to use,          indispensably ne
                                                           is
 cessary to discern what has been described               various astrono
                                                            by
 mers.
    " hope shall succeed in my endeavours to' extinguish this
    I        I
 vulgar error, and be able to prove, that neither such enormous
 mstruments, nor monstrous magnifying powers, are either ne
 cessarily required or commonly used       ; and thereby the contem
 plation of the wonderful and beautiful celestial bodies may be
 come more general, the science simplified and made easy, and
 the study of    itrendered universallyattractive, and no longer con
fined to the happy few whose good fortunes will furnish them
with such expensive instruments and hope shall clearly con
                                       :   I               I
vince the amateurs of astronomy, that all the principal and most
interesting phaenomena are visible with glasses which are easy
to procure, and handy to use and that the rationale of tele
                                   ;
scopes has this in common with other sciences, that what              mostis
worth learning       easiest learned; and
                      is                       is,
                                                 like all other sciences,'
reduced to Jew clear points. There are not many certain truths
             a
in this world."
    After paying      just tribute of respect and admiration to the
                      a
labours of Dr. Herschel, Dr. Kitchener proceeds to describe the
various forms and properties of the telescopes now in use, giving
the history of their invention, and noticing the progress of astro
nomy as therewith connected.
    The following hints to persons desirous of having             good in^
                                                                      a
strument may be useful to opticians also
   "
                                                   :
      Whoever desires to have a perfect and fine instrument, must
have at least two sets of specula made         :this alone will give the
optician a   fair chance   of doing his best   for
                                               ;     such     the extreme
                                                                 is
uncertainty    of obtaining  a perfect figure, that,      their employers
                                                           if
                                                                       are

                        JStotkes respecting New Books.              46'3
hte rrot liberal enough to pay for the extra labour, they ought
not     to be surprised if the makers are willing to stop when the
figure     is tolerably good, rather than run the risk of destroying a
week's work, by trying to make it a fine one. Get one metal
as good as you can, then set to work at another, and when you
have made one more perfect, try to mend the first : thus, by al
 ternately working one after the other, you will at last obtain the
 ' ne plus ultra' of perfection.
      "  It is of the utmost consequence to the perfection of reflect
 ing telescopes, that the minors be truly parallel to each other,
 and also that the centres of them, together with the centres of
 the eye-glasses, be all in one direct line; viz. in the axis of the
 tube.        Indeed, unless these particulars are attended to, the in
 strument will prove defective and faulty, even though the mir
  rors have the most exquisite figure possible given to them. ThaS
  truly excellent artist, the late ingenious Mr. James Short, alway*
  took the greatest care to adjust and centre the metals of his
  telescopes.      If the mirrors are truly centred and adjusted to
  their best position, a fixed star, when the telescope is put out of
  focus, should always appear, in reflecting telescopes, as a truly
  round circle of fire with a black spot exactly in its centre; and
  when the telescope is adjusted to distinct vision, the star should
  appear, if the telescope is excellent, and the state of the air
  favourable, exactly rotmd, and totally free from all irradiations,
  or false rays and glare.       Indeed I can assert, from experience,
   that no object is so proper to determine the excellence of tele
   scopes as the fixed stars, as the least irregularity in the figure of
   the metals iu reflecting telescopes, or of the object-glass in achro-
   matics, is rendered by them exceedingly conspicuous by a false
   glare, and by their not appearing perfectly round."        .   .
                                                                    ^   ,
       To purchasers of telescopes the following useful advice is given;
       " There is an extraordinary and curious fact, with which few
   people are acquainted, but is of the first importance every one
   should be aware of when choosing a telescope, or comparing
   instruments to ascertain their peculiar powers ; that when trying
   astronomical glasses, we should not be satisfied with less than
   three evenings' observation : such is the capricious variation- of
   the atmosphere of this country, that some evenings which appear
   extremely fine, when the stars look most brilliant and dazzling to
    the naked eye, are quite unfit for observation, and our best tele
   scopes will not perform.       Quiet, serene nights, when there is no
   moon, are the most favourable.          When comparing telescopes,
    we should take very particular care that the eye-tubes be glassed
   with the same sort of glass, and that they are charged with pre
   cisely the same magnifying powers; otherwise the comparison will
    be in vain ; a difference of even five or ten times in the magni

464                         Notices respecting New Books.
fying povter will sometimes, on some objects, give                  a     different
  character to the glass : and whatever difference there may be in
 the size of the instruments, when we wish to become acquainted
 -with their respective advantages, they should each be charged
 with the same magnifying power, which, -if the telescopes are
 intended for astronomical use, should not be less than 100 times ;
 if for terrestrial purposes, not less than fifty times."
     In a note there is an elegant tribute to the merits of the late
 celebrated instrument-maker Ramsden : scanty as it                 is,
                                                                      the it
                                                                          is
 only biography of him, we believe, which             extant
                                                           is  we there
                                                                :
 fore present      to our philosophical readers with much pleasure.
                   it
     *' The highest praise      due to the merits of the late Mr. Jesse
                                   is
  Ramsden,   for  his ingenuity,liberality, and persevering endeavours
 to invent and perfect the various instruments used in astronomy,
 philosophy, and mathematics           to produce which, he devoted all
                                            ;
 his time, and almost all the profits of his very extensive trade, in
-carrying on which, his anxiety was not (like the razor-maker,
 who merely made his goods to sell) to study and contrive how
 cheap he could make an instrument, and how dear he could sell
 it; his sole care was to make           as perfect as possible, and he
                                                it
 spared neither pains nor expense             forming an instrument, or
                                                      in
 bringing   itto perfection and the method he pursued, though
                                   ;
 singular, almost invariably produced ultimate success.         Without
 the least ostentation, pride, or reserve in his manners, he wat
 polite, easy, and familiar to all that had business with him.
    I'*  have been favoured with the following anecdote from such
 a source, that     can vouch for the authenticity of it.
   "
                   I
       It was his custom to retire         the evening to what he consi
                                                 in
 dered the most comfortable corner in the house, and take his
 seat close to the kitchen fire-side, in order to draw some plan
 for the forming       new instrument, or scheme for the improve
                        a
ment of one already made.          There, with his drawing implements
 on the table before him,        cat sitting on one side, and
                                       a                         certaina
portion of bread, butter, and a small mug of porter placed on
 the other side, while four or five apprentices commonly made up
 the circle, he amused himself with either whistling the favourite
air, or sometimes singing the old ballad of,
                        'If she not true to me,
                                  is
                        'What care to whom she be
                                       I                   ?
            '
                What care   what care
                            I,           to whom she be?-
                                            I,
and appeared, in this domestic group, contentedly happy. When
he occasionally sent for    workman, to give him necessary
                                       a                                       di
rections concerning what he wished to have done, he first showed
the recent finished plan, then explained the different parts                 of   it,
and generally concluded      saying, with the greatest good hu
                                       by
mour, fNow see, man, let us try to find fault with it;- and thus,

                               -Royal Society i                      465
  by putting two heads together, to scrutinize his own performance*
  some alteration was probably made for the better.         But, what
  ever expense an instrument had cost in forming, if it did not
  fully answer the intended design, he would immediately say, after
  u little examination of the work, 4 Bobs, man ! this won-t do,
  we must have at it again:- and then the whole of that was put
  aside, and a new instrument begun.          By means of such perse-
. verance, he succeeded in bringing various mathematical, philo
  sophical, and astronomical instruments to perfection.        The large
  theodolite for terrestrial measurements, and the equal altitude
  instrument for astronomy, will always be monuments of his fer
  tile, penetrating, arduous, superior genius !     There cannot be a
  lover (especially of this more difficult part) of philosophy, in any
  quarter of the globe, but must admire the abilities and respect
  the memory of Jesse Ramsden !" .
      The author concludes his work with some plain, unaffected
  directions respecting the management of the instrument.
      Upon the whole, we think Dr. Kitchener has added a useful
  pocket volume to our stock of knowledge on the subject of astro*
  nomy ; and as the science is daily acquiring cultivators m the
  United Empire, the importance and value of the work will be
  gradually more duly appretiated.
      A work  by the late Bernardin St. Pierre, author of " The Studies
  of Nature," is to issue from the French press in the course of a
  few weeks.      It is entitled Harmonies de la Nature, and is di
  rected to an illustration of the wisdom and beneficence of Provi
  dence in the works of creation, by exemplifying many coin
  cidences and aptitudes which do not occur to ordinary observers.
  A translation into English from the proof sheets is in, progress,
  and will be published in this country at the same time as the
  original.
               LXXIV.    Proceedings   of Learned   Societies.
                             ROYAL SOCIETY".
  Wednesday,           Nov. 30, being St. Andrew's Day,        the Royal
   Society met, according to annual custom, at their apartments        in
  Somerset House. The Coplevan Gold Medal was presented, with
  an appropriate speech from the President, to James Ivory, Esq.
  A.M. for    his various  Mathematical     Communications     published
  in the Philosophical    Transactions; after which the Society pro
  ceeded to the election of a Council and. Officers for the year en
  suing ; when the following Gentlemen were elected :
      Vol. 44. No. 200. Dec. 1814.              G g                 ,The

j6G                     Royal Society.'
      Tta Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. President.
      Samuel Lysons,, Esq. Treasurer.
      William hyde Woliaston, M.D.1
                                      Secretariei,
      laylor Combe, Esq.                   J
      Of ike Old  Council.       .   ;
                                            Of the New Cbmcil.
Right Hon. Sir  Jos. Banks, Bart.        William Allen, Esq.
Sir C. Blagden, Knt.                     William Blake, Esq.
S. Goodenough, Ld. Bp. of Gar-           Rev. Charles Burney.       >    .
  lisle.                                 Charles William,    Earl   of
Taylor Combe, Esq.     .                    Charleville.
Samuel Lysons, Esq.                      Davies Giddy, Esq. M.P.
George, Earl of Morton.                  Sir Everard Home, Bart.
Thomas Murdoch, Esq.                     James Horsburgh, Esq.
i. Pond, Esq. A.R.                       Alexander Marcet, M.D.
William Charles Wells, M.D.              Thomas, Earl of Selkirk.
Wm. Hyde Woliaston, M.D.                 Henry Warburton, Esq.
Thomas Young, M.D.
    After the election the Members dined together at the Crown
 and Anchor Tavern in the Strand.
    Dec. 8. This night the 8ociety assembled after the Anni
versary; when the President's elaborate address on adjudging the
 Copleyan medal to J. Irory, Esq. of the Royal Military College,
 Sandhurst, was read. Sir Joseph took a lucid and comprehensive
"Wew of the different mathematical papers laid before the Society
 by Mr. Ivory, particularly his Investigation of Spheroids.    He
then proceeded to a history of this abstruse branch of mathema
tics.    Sir Isac Newton's principles began by assuming the earth
 to be a homogeneous fluid ; but the theory did not correspond
•with actual experiment.      Maclaurin was the first who demon
 strated that a homogeneous fluid in rotatory motion would always
 remain globular.    He was followed by Simpson.     Their labours
 were adopted and extended by Lagrange in the Berlin Memoirs.
;The question is now finally established by Mr. Ivory, whose pa
 pers in the Transactions of the Royal Society have attracted the
 attentionj and obtained the approbation, of M. Legendre.
    The reading of Dr. Brewster's experiments on animal, vege
 table, and mineral substances which depolarize light, was con
                                                ~'.
 tinued. :                           '.'.       .•
    Dec. 15 and 22. Part of a paper        Mr. Travers, describing
                                               by
 the structure of the Eye, its different organs, and power of
 adopting vision to distant and near objects, was read the re
                                                           :
 mainder was postponed till future meeting, and the Society ad
                            a
 journed two Thursdays.
                                                         LXXV. Is-

                                  i    467     1
                                                                             "   -   -
               LXXV. Intelligence     and Miscellaneous    Articles,
    The        celebrated M. Van Mons, of Brussels, has lately published
      French translations of Sir Humphry Davy-s valuable Chemical
     and Scientific Works. The same indefatigable foreigner has also
     presented a Memoir to the Royal Academy of .Sweden, on three
     new chemical bodies, known by the appellation of the Metallo"
-
    Jluores, Iodine, and the Detonating Oil of Dulong. From this
     ingenious work, which consists of upwards of 300 octavo pages,
     it is our intention to present the readers of the Philosophical
      Magazine with some interesting extracts.        In the mean time we
     have the satisfaction to state, that M. Van Mons is about to re
     sume the publication of his highly useful Journal of Chemistry
     and the Arts, which has been long suspended in Consequence of
     the unsettled state of the Continent.              t
         M. Van Mons thus expresses himself in his letter to the Edi
     tor of this Journal :
         "  It is said that Gay Lussac has lately read to the Institute a
     long work upon Iodine, and that he has examined this new oxy
     genated acid under its various relations.        1 have heard that he
    speaks      of the intactile powder upon hearsay only ; and he seems)
     to consider azote and sulphur as combustibles, the one alcalifi-
     able, and the other acidifiable : it is in this light that I have also
    .considered these bodies and aH. the other bodies, except the me
     tals reduced into hydrogen ; for whatever can be fixed of the
     hydrogen or of the reduced metals, ought either to be c.'^ gen or
     to contain oxygen, and must have received these bodies            a^s
                                                                         sub
     stitutes for caloric.
         " have made some new experiments on the metallo-fluores,
     and
         I I  have found that any given metal takes up the dry fluoric
     acid from any.given oxide, as hydrogen takes up the dry sulphu
     ric acid from all the sulphates the dry phosphoric acid from all
                                      ;
     the phosphates and as oxygen takes up the dry iodic acid from
                     ;
     all the iodates, &c.  I      have spoken at full length of those bo-            •
     dies in the Memoir sent herewith, and also in my notes upon
     Davy. In addition to the dry fluoric acid being combined with
     the metals hi the two relations, to be salified into oxidnlate* and
     oxides,   it  appeared to me that, in third instance, which answers
                                           a
     to that of solution, the acid    is situated in the same way in pro
     portion with the hydrogen, the sulphuric acid        is laid bare, and
     that in its second proportion with the oxygen the muriatic acid
    is   equally so. It    also appeared to me that the hydrogen allowed
     itf elf to be incorporated with my metallic fluores for, as dull as
                                                          ;
     they Were before, they now assumed        ametallie lustre neverthe
                                                               :
     lessI    am not entirely certain of this fact.     These will be true
    •. . ./                            G   g
                                           2                           fluor.

468                 Batidin's Vmjagewf      ^Discovery.
 fluors of reduced metals ; from which I think that the sulphur
 will take up the metals by isolating the fiuor, or the combustible
 or aciditiable from the fluoric acid. All that I can do for oxy
 genating tlie dry fluoric acid into fluorine has been without suc
 cess, and I think I may safely say that this acid is incapable of
 oxygenation.       I have not been informed if Gay Lussac has been
 able to put beyond combination the hvperoxygenated iodic acid.
     " You know without doubt, that, according to the present
 nomenclature, an iodate is a hvperoxygenated salt ; an dure, a i
 dry salt ; a hydroiodate, a dry salt and water ; a hydrosulphate is
 a salt composed of an oxide and of sulphurated hydrogen gas,
 and this gas is hydrcsulphuric acid, &c. &c.
     " I am about to resume my Journal for 1815, and I shall have
 much pleasure to transmit it as formerly.
     "  My Philosophical Dictionary of Chemistry is fast approach
 ing   to a conclusion, and you shall receive it shortly.
                        " I have the honour to be, &c.
  Brussels, Oct. 12, 1814.
                                                  " J. B. Van MoNS."
              CAVTAIN BATJDIN'S VOYAGK OF DISCOVERY,
          Undertaken hi Order of the French Government.
     The Moniteur of December 24 gives the following notice on
  this interesting subject: — "We have the satisfaction to an
  nounce the publication of the Voyage to the Southern Hemi
 sphere, drawn up by M. Louis Freyeinet, Captain in the French
•
  Navy.
 ••     In the Moniteur of Jan. 15, 1813,       a Report was published,
 which had been         made   by the vice-admiral   who was director of
  the charts and plans of the marine, from which the public were
 enabled to appretiate the nlferit of this superb hydrographic
 work. It contains accurate charts of those shores of New Hol
  land and Van Diemen's Land, which at the epoch of the voy
 age were least known.         This discovery made by the French na
 vigators   of  the south-west   coast of New Holland must have been
  remarked in ra particular manner, situated between the islands
 of St. Francis and Port Western, which no voyagers seem to
 have approached previous to them.
    •** The work which we announce has the
                                                      stronger claims on
 the curiosity of the public, as Capt. Flinders, who commanded
 an English expedition, sailed along and explored the same coast
 at the same time.         His Voyage has just been published, accom
 panied by     an  atlas containing a great number of charts.
     "  The English captain was on the 28th January 1802 at the
 islands of St. Francis, situated at the eastern extremity of de
  Nuyt's Land, which rear-admiral Dentrecasteaux had visited.
 Waving those islands, he sailed along the shores from north
                                                                    west

                Baudin's Voyage    of   Discovery.           469
west to south-east.    Capt Baudin was off Port Western, at the
opposite extremity, on the 29th of March of the same year, and
followed the windings of the shore in an opposite direction to
that of the English ; i. e. proceeding from south-east to the
north-west.    The ships of the two nations passed each other .
under sailin the eastern extremity of the easternmost of the two
great gulfs which are on this shore, as may be seen in the ac
count of the French Voyage published by M. Peron.
    " The most friendly communications took place between the
two ships, and Capt. Flinders was the fir->t to visit the com
mander of the French expedition.      The priority of discovery of
the south-west, coast of New Holland, from the islands of St.
Francis to the point at which the ships met, belongs therefore,
unquestionably, to Capt. Flinders ; but the other portion of the
coast ought not to be disputed with the French.      Nevertheless,
a regard to truth obliges us to retrench from this fast portion
about 50 or 60 leagues to the east of Port Western, which had
been some time previously explored by Capt. Grant, command
ing the Lady Nelson.
  "    It must not be concluded that each of the navigators of
both nations had not the merit of discovering the half of this
dangerous coast, since each inspected the whole of it closely,
without communicating to each other the chart of the parts
which they had first visited.
    " When Capt. Baudin had explored and laid down the south*
west coast of New Holland, he proceeded to Port Jackson, where
he met Capt. Flinders a second time.
    " In an interview which took place in presence of the Go^
yernor of New Holland, the chief inhabitants of the place, and
some French officers, the English captain agreed with M. Bau
din on the limits of the shores upon which each should in future
lay claim to a priority of discovery.   These were fixed by com
mon consent on a chart exhibited by Capt. Flin-lers."
    After a few observations on the importance of the work, the,
Moniteur thus vindicates the French officers from the charge
which has been brought against them, of appropriating all the
discoveries of Capt. Flinders to themselves, and giving them
French names :
  "   The impartial public will decide if this reproach he well
founded, or if it was possible to describe shores which were un
known to them, without distinguishing by names the most re
markable parts of those shores; and  if,  when they knew nothing
of the names imposed   by  Capt. Flinders, they could do any thing
else than resort to the privilege of every voyager, of naming the
capes and islands which had not been pointed out in any known
work."
                              G g
                                3                     common;.

470         Blind and Duml.<~ Anatomy of the Brain.
   COMMUNICATION       ESTABLISHED BETWEEN         THE  BLIND AND
                                 DUMB.
    Dr. Guillie, Director of the Royal Blind Institution at Paris,
has been enabled, by an infallible method of his own invention,
to establish an immediate and perfect mode of intercourse be
tween the blind and the deaf and dumb.           These two species of
unfortunate individuals, betwixt whom Nature appeared to have
placed insuperable barriers, may henceforward, thanks to the au
thor of this invaluable discovery, draw near to perfectly under
stand each other.
     The first trial of this ingenious practice was made before a
 riumerous public meeting held at Paris the 26th of August last.
 A sentence was there dictated to one of the deaf and dumb,
 named Massaca, a pupil of the Abbe Sicard, and by him com
 municated to one of the blind, who immediately repeated it in a
 loud voice. He, in his turn, communicated to Massaca the sen
tence dictated by the meeting, who instantly wrote it down on a
 tablet.
     We are assured that Dr. Guillie intends coming to London m
 the winter, for the purpose of making an experiment of hi»
 practice before the Royal Society.
             ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY OF THE BRAIN.
     Dr. Spurzheim    has at length finished. his second course of lec
 tures on the Anatomy and Physiology of the Brain, after hav
 ing received the testimony of a numerous and respectable me
 dical and amateur class of hearers to the preeminence of his
 mode of dissecting the brain, and treating of its physiology.
 He is now gone to Bath, by the particular invitation of some
  medical gentlemen of that city, to demonstrate the brain there.
 The doctrine he teaches appears at length to have excited ge
 neral interest ; and, if ultimately found correct, which we have
 no reason to doubt, will lead to very important changes in the
  plan of education.     For, by pointing out the peculiar talents of
  individual children, we shall be decided in our choice of profes
  sion for our offspring.
                                LECTURES.
     Medical School, St. Thomas's and Guy's Hospitals. — The
  Spring Course of Lectures at these adjoining Hospitals will com
  mence the beginning of February; viz.
     At St. Thomas's —Anatomy and the Operations of Surgery,
  by Mr. Astley Cooper and Mr. Henry Cline, — Principles and
  Practice of Surgery, by Mr. Astley Cooper.
     At Guy's — Practice of Medicine, by Dr. Babington and          Dr.
  Curry. — Chemistry, by Dr, Babington, Dr. Marget, and             Mr.
                                                                 Alien,

                                    THE
PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                        AND JOURNAL:
                              COMPREHENDING
        THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF SCIENCE,
               THE LIBERAL AND FINE ARTS,
                              GEOLOGY,
                         AGRICULTURE,
                                                                          '
           MANUFACTURES AND COMMERCE.
               BY ALEXANDER TILLOCH,
                   MJU.A.     F.S.A.  Edin. and Perth, &c.
   '< Nec aranearum sane textus ideo                                      nec noster
                                        melior   quia ex se fila gignunt,
viU»r quia ex alienis libamns ut apes."   Just. Lips. Mtnit. Ptliu lib. i.  cap. i.
                                VOL. XLIV.
 - Tor JULY, AUQUST, SEPTEMBER, OCTOBER, NO VEMBER,
                              and  DECEMBER.
                                               1       i
                                  L ON DO If:
       MINTED BY RICHARD AND ARTHUR TAYLOR, SHOE IANE!
    And  sold by Cadell and Davies ; Longman, Hcrst Rees,Orme, and
        Brown; Murray; Highley; Sherwood and Co.; Harding;
              Underwood, London : Constable and Co. Edinburgh;
                     Brash and Reid, and Niven, Glasgow;
                           & Gilbert & Hodges, Dublin.

  1
I

                      CONTENTS
       OF THE FORTY-FOURTH VOLUME.
D ESCRIPTION
                                                                          -
                        of a new Gazometer and Blow-pipe                1
Some Experiments and Observations on a new Substance which
  becomes a violet-coloured Gas by Heat . .          . .   . .  . .     3
Proposal for an Improvement of the Galvanic Trough . . 15
Errors of Criticus Secundus in his Communication respect
  ing   the Nautical Almanac for 1815                                  16
An   Account   of  a  Family  having    Hands   and  Feet  with   super
  numerary      Fingers and Toes . .                                   17
Description of a new Apparatus for preparing with Facility
  and (Economy pure Muriatic Acid                                      21
An Account of some coloured Snow and Hoar-frost                  . .  23
Report of the Progress of the Sciences in France in 1813               25
Memoir upon Palladium and Rhodium                                     33
On the Influence of the Pressure of the Atmosphere on the
   Crystallization of Salts                                            44
Some Account of the Life and Writings of Comdorcet                     81
Account    of some singular atmospherical Phenomena              . .   91
Account   of some new Experiments on the fluoric Compounds; with
  some Observations on other Objects of chemical Inquiry               93
Official Report of   a  Fall of  Aerolites near Grenade        ..    100
Practical Diagram for obtaining in a simple Maimer the Cor
  rection of the Lunar Distances as observed by a Sextant            1 05
Remarks on Mr. Hume-s Gazometer and Blow-pipe.                   . . 106
Memoir upon the compound and smooth or simple Eyes of In
  sects, and on the     Manner in which these two Species of Eyes
  concur in Vision . .          .   - -
                                                         107, 183, 274
Report made by Order of the Philomathic Society of Paris,
  on the Subject of the new Operations and Instruments for t/te
   Cure of various Diseases of the Eye                               119
On some new Electro-chemical Phcenomena                              1 24
Account of a new Species of Insect of the Genus Corynsetes of
  Fabricius, observed in an EgyptianMummy at GrenoHe 131
Explanation of the Cuticle of Leaves                                 161
Report from    the  Select Committee    on Weights  and  Measures    171
The Opinions of Dr. Thomson and the Chevalier Delambre,
  in reference to Don Rodriguez's Animadversions on the
  Trigonometrical Survey, contrasted                                 181
Particulars respecting Hail Stoims in the West Indies          . .   191
Chemical Inquiries into the Nature offatty Substances                193
On the Question, Whether Alcohol be a Product of Fermenta
   tion, or of Distillation P                                        207

                              CONTENTS.
Summary Ideas on the Prolalilities of the Origin of Aerolites2\ 2
Of the Anatomy and Physiology of the Brain and Nervous
   System, as taught by Drs. Gall and Sfurzheim                .. 215
Observations on the Fall of Stones from the Clouds           217, 253
A  Geological Description of the Neighbourhood of Bristol 241
On the variable Action of the Electric Column         . .      . . 248
On the Affections of Light transmitted through crystallized
   Bodies     ..   .. .. ..                            ..261,323
New Outlines of Chemical Philosophy       . .   . . 270, 350, 438
On a Substitute for Coffee, proposed by a French Author              292
Biographical . Sketch of the late Sir Bbiwamin. Thompson,
   Count of Rnmford        . .   .. ..                .....
                                                        , .. .. 2pS
On Chain Cables or Moorings . .       . .   , .  ,.     . .     . . $94
On Fire Damp in Coal Mines                              ..      . . 303'
On the best Process for obtaining Copper in a pure Stale . . 304
On Fulminating Silver                             . .   . .     . . 304
On the Production of Aerolites, and other Solids . .            . . 321
Reflections on the Inadequacy of the principal Hypotheses tq
   account for the Phcenomena of Electricity      . .   . . 334/401
Further Experiments and Observations on Iodine . .              . . 355
 On Gas Light, and its ceconomical Application           , .    ... 368
Dr. Spurzheim's demonstrative Course of Lectures on Drs.
    Gall and Spurzheim's Physiognomonical System 305,370
 Memoir on various Combinations of Gold          ..      ..     . . 408
Observations respecting the natural Production of Saltpetre on
    the Walls of subterraneous and other Buildings . .           . . 415
 Stratification of Glamorganshire      .. . . . . . , . . 427
 Some Experiments on the Combustion of the Diamond .. 429
 On the Sublimation of Silica                                    , . 441
 On Electricity     .                                               ..442
 On Staffa                                  '.,   .   '.                 44|
Notices respecting New Books         . 48, 133, 225, 383, 459
                                      ..     ,
Proceedings of  Learned  Societies        ..
                                           .   49, 139, 393, 465
                                                      .
Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles .63., 150, 236,313, 397;
 List   Patents
        of
 Meteorological Table
                         ..
                              .
                              .
                                  .
                                  .
                                  ..
                                           ....            .
                                                           .   76, 157, 396
                                           80, 160, .240, 320, 400, 473        .

                      Lectures. ^Meteorology.                   471
Allen.— Experimental Philosophy, by Mr. Allen. — Theory of
Medicine, and Materia Medica, by Dr. Curry and Dr. Cholme-
ley.— Midwifery, and Diseases of Women and Children, by Dr.
Haighton. — Physiology, or Laws of the Animal (Economy, by
Dr. Haighton. — Structure and Diseases of the Teeth, by Mr.
Fox.
     N. B. These several Lectures are so arranged, that no two of
th«m interfere in the hours of attendance ; and the whole is cal
culated to form a Complete Course of Medical and Chirurgical
Instruction.      Terms and other particulars   may be learnt at the
respective Hospitals.
      Theatre of Anatomy, Bart left's Court, Holborn. — Lectures
on Anatomy, Physiology, Pathology, and Surgery, by Mr. John
Taunton, F.A.S. Member of the Royal College of Surgeons of
London, Surgeon to the City and Finsbury Dispensaries, City
of Loudon Truss Society, &c.
    The Winter Course will commence on Saturday, January 21,
1815, at Eight o'clock in the Evening precisely, and be continued
every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday at the same hour. — Par
ticulars may be had on applying to Mr. Taunton, 87, Hatton
 Garden.
                        RUSSKLL    INSTITUTION.   .                  ,
      Mr. Singer will commence his Lectures on Electricity and           '
 Electro-Chemistry at this Institution, on Monday, January th«
 16th, at Eight o'clock in the Evening.       The Lectures will be
 continued at the same hour each succeeding Monday until the
 end of the Course.      Tickets of Admission, and a Syllabus of the
 Lectures, may     be obtained  of the Secretary, at the Institution,
 Great Coram Street, Russell Square ; or of Mr. Singer, No. 3,
 Princes Street, Cavendish Square.                                     t
 Meteorological Observations made at Wallhamstow, in Essex,
    from November 10 to November 30, 1814. Communicated,
      by Thomas Forster, Esq.
      Nov.  10. — Windy,   with sun and clouds;     star-light night.
 Thermometer 2 P.M. 39°.         Barometer 30-20.     N.W.
  . /            —
      Nov . 1 1 . Fine coloured sunrise occasioned by cirrostratus ;
  the clouds with cirrostratus afterwards.      A gray day. Cloudy
  and windy by night. Barometer 30-20 and 30-30.             Thermo
  meter 44°, not lower all night, as appeared by a self-registering
  instrument.      W.
                                                                 Nov.

472                             Meteorology.          \
   Nov.     12. — Thermometer      highest at midday* 50", in the night
45°.      Sun, wind and showers.
                                       '
                                         Barometer falling 29-80.       S.
   Nov. 13.---Thermometer           47° and 36°.       Barometer 29-80.
Rain early, followed by sun and wind. N.W.
   Nov. 14.— Thermometer 52° and 40''. Barometer 29-80.
Rain and showers. At night starlight.             S.W.                     '
   Arov. 15. — Thermometer 49° and 41°.             Barometer stationary
at 29-80. Red sunrise with cirrosiratus and flocky cumuli
floating before it ; hard showers and very dark night.
    Nov. 16.— Thermometer 48° and 33°.              Barometer fell 29-40.
Rain ; then high wind and showers. Clear evening. S.W.
 -  Nov. 17. — Thermometer 52° and 46".                 Barometer 30-00.
Hazy day, dark and windy at night. S.W. . . '
    Nov. 18. — Thermometer 5 1° and 42*.             Barometer fell from
39-82     to 29-50.'    Sun  and  showers   with dark   windv night. S.
    Nov. 19.— Thermometer 45° and 32\ Barometer 29-41.                       .
Sun and hazy; star-light night.           N.W.
    Nov. 20.— Thermometer 42° and 32".                  Barometer 29-40.
White frost early ; then showers. Wind at night brought rain,
from the S.
    Nov. 2 1 .—Thermometer 38 ' and 23*. Barometer 29-60 and
29-50.       Gray morning.       Moon and stars by night. N.W.
    Nov. 22.— Thermometer 38° and 22°. White frost and fine
sunrise; fair day, with wind from N.
    Nov. 23. — Thermometer 37°. White frost and hazy at night.
Hazy moon.          N.
    Now. 24.— Thermometer 39s. Barometer 29-80. Foggy, and
ton. Rain.         N.
    Nov. 25 .—Thermometer 5 1°, Barometer 29-50.                   Hazy and
showers*        S.
    Nov. 26,— Thermometer 49° and 33°,                 Barometer 29-30.
Showery and wind.           S.
    Nov. 27.— Thermometer 43° and 33°. Barometer 29-60.
Sun and clouds ; windy after 5 P.M.             W.
    Nov.    28.—   Thermometer      39°   and  43°.     Barometer 29-70.
 Sun and wind ; rain.         N.
    Nov. 29.— Thermometer 47° and 37°. Barometer 29-40.
 Gray day. S.W.           Cirrosiratus, cirrocumulus,
    Nov. 30.— Thermometer            43° and 33".       Barometer 29,20.
Sun and hazy.          N.W.
   * The Barometer is taken about 8 A.M. The highest of the Therme-
neter   in the day is to be understood when no hour is expressed : where tw»
 notations occur, the second is the lowest by night.
                                                                 >fETEORO

                                                                 Meteorology.                                                                       47*
                                             METEOROLOGICAL                               TABLE,
                                Br Mr. Cart,                              op     the Strand,
                                                      For December 1814.
                               Thermometer.                                                  ry-
                                                                                            ie's
                                                                                                                                                    1
                                     til                              Height of           •~ »
                                                                                                   L
                                                                                                                    S
 Bays of                                                              the Barom.
                                                        '                                                                                Weather,
                                             Noon.
                                                                                            Degreeso
 Month.
                           u'Cloc
                                                                 Us
                                    Mornin                                                                                   Hygrom
                                                     J
                                                                                                          nessby
                                                                       Inches.
                           a
                                    '
Nov.       26              46                48         45            29-62                       15                                  Fair
       '
           27               36               45         40              -72                       16                                  Fair
           28               37               44         41              -53                       10                                  Cloudy
           29              46                48         42               -49                     10                                   Cloudy
           30              40                46         40               -51                      14                                  Fair
Dec.            1           37               44         41               -68                      16                                  Fair          '   .
                            37               39             33           -86                                                          Cloudy.
               6 5 4 3 2
                                                                                                         7
                            32               33             30          -89                                                           Foggy
                                                                                                       0 6 0
           .
                            40               43             40          -45                                                           Fair
                            37               41             40          -65                                                           Cloudy'
                            36               39             37        30-02                       11                                  Fair.   .
                            38               43             43         29-70                                                          Rain
                                                                                                       0 0 9 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
                 7
                            47               47             51           -35                                                          Rain
                9 8         $2               52             50            -50                                                         Rain
               10            33              40             54           •35                                                          Rain          ;   .
               il            52              52             53           -50                                                          Rain
               12            53              56             55           -70                                                          Rain
               13            55              55             53           -74                                                          Rain
               14            45              52             50           -72                                                          Fair
               15            54              55             50           -60                                                          Rain
               16            55              55             45           -45                                                          Stormy
               17            45              55             54           -80                       12                                 Fair
               18            55              56             5Q            -88                      10                                 Fair
               19            54              55             40            -82                          14                             Fair
               20            37              44             35         30-08                    1
                                                                                                1                                     Fair
               SI             35             38             35         2P'98     .                 10                                 Fair
               22             35             37             34            •62                      10                                 Cloudy
               23             34             37             33            -55                                                         Cloudy
                                                                                                           5 9
               24             33             33             32            -65                                                         Cloudy
                              30             30             31            •62                                                         Snow-
                                                                                                          0 0                         Snow
           'S6                32             4*.            35            -62
                           N.B. The                  Barometer's        height       is   taken at one o'clock.

                                       . t     *74      J
                      INDEX to VOL, XLIV.
A CID.      Hydrionic formed         by Iodine     Brunton-s chain cables,                       297
   and hydrogen ; chlorionic         by iodine      Bulkeley on lunar distances,                 105
   and chlorine; stannionic          by iodine      Burning-glass.        Combustion, of dia
   and tin, 4-8 ; muriatic, new      apparatus         mond, &c. with,                           432
   for preparing,      21 ; formic to pro           Carlisle on supernumerary             members,
   cure, 152; prussic found in the bark                                                            17
   of the promts padttt, 316; on com                Cassias. Powder of,                          414
   pounds with hydrionic,            359 ; on       Cary-s Meteorological Tables,           80, 160,
   chlorionic,                              362                               240, 320, 400, 473
Adams-s operations       on the eye.        Re      Chain cables preferable to hemp,             294
   port on,                                 1 19    Charcoal. Experiments           on,         -435
Aerolites.    On, 100, 212, 217, 253,316,           Chemical philosophy.          Walker on, 270,
                                            321                                             350, 438
Aerostation,                                 75     Chewreul on fatty substances,                 193
Alcohol.    Quere,                     207, 317     Chinese Dictionary.          Guignes-s,-     388
Alcohol charcoal.      On,                  435     Coal mines.       On damps in,               303
Analyses of sea-water, 27 ; blood, 28 ;             Coffee.     Substitute for,             144, 292
   mineral water of Provinz, 52; ditto              Conchology,                                    53
   of Roisdorff, 65; ditto of Aix-la-               Condorcet. Life of,                            81
   Chapelle, 154; of vegetables, 72 ;               Copper, Pure.        A query,                 304
   of benzoin,                              152     Craniology,      71, 251, 305, 870, S96,
Animal heat. On,                            451                                                   470
Antiques,                     '     68, 69, 226     Crystallization of       salts.  Influence of
Atmospherical phenomenon in the river                  pressure on,                                44
   St. Lawrence, 91 ; in Britain ^md                Crystallized     bodies.    On affections of
   Ireland,                                 236        light passed through,               .261, 523
Atmosphere.      Solvent power of,          218     Cuticle of leaves.       On,                  161
Balloon.    Sadler-s ascent 15th July, 75           Davy (Sir H.) on iodine, 3, 335 ; on,
Bees.     On,                   144, 148,316           the fluoric compounds, 95 ; on com
Baudin-s voyage,                   -        468        bustion,                                   429
Benzoin.      Analysis of,                  152     Duvy (John) on animal heat,                  451
Site.    Sulphur in,                          70    Delambre-s remarks on the trigonome
Biliary calculi. Remedy for,                  72       trical survey,                             18J
Bibliolh. Spenceriana.       Notice of, 133         De Luc on the electric column,                243
Biography.       Condorcet,       81 ;   Count      De Serres on eyes of insects, 107, 183,
   Rumford,                                 293        274; on aerolites,                   217,253
Blotd. Analyses of, 28 ; sulphur in, 70,            Derutmx-' botanical remarks,                   57
   on heat of,                              451     Detonating balls. On,                   237, 304
Bones. Housham on formation of, 49                  Diamond.        On combustion of,            429
Books, New. 48, 52, 62, 65, 66, 73, 1 33,           Distillation. Tennant on, 49; Is alcohol
                                225, 383, 459          a product of* , ;                -         207
Botany,           ,..          56,62,73, 161        Diving machine, New,                          S94
Brain. On the,                       -215,470       Donovan on alcohol, 207, 317; on
                                                  -
Brande on electro-chemical phenome                     elicfcieitjj>, ^ P. ;j < .          234, 401
   na,                                      1 24    Earthquake at St. Michael-s, 151 ; at
Brewster on the affections of light, 2G1,              Lyons,                                    334
                                            323     Electric column.        DeLucon,             248
Brongniart on geology,             >          54    Electricity,   271  ,334, 40 1,442 ; medical,
Brown-s chain cables,                       295                                                   395
BrugnateUi-s new process for muriatic               Electro-chemical phenomena.              Brande
    acid,                                     21       on,                                        124

                                       INDEX.
'Byes of^tects.       On,        107, 183, 274    Lunar distances.      Correction of,     10S
 Fabroni on coloured hail,                    23  Lussac on crystallization,                 44
'Fail of leaves. On the,                      56  MaeCulloch on sublimation          of silica,
                      -
 Fatly substances.      Inquiries respecting;,       441 •, on StafFa,                     445
                                             193  Measures. Report on,                     171
 Fermentation,     Is alcohol a product of?       Medical electricity,                     395
                                             207  Metals, probably compounds, 32; com
  Fingers, supernumerary.         Family with,       bustion of,                           313
                                               17 Meteoric stones.      On, 100, 212, 217,
•Fire. Showers of,                           253                                      253, 816
-Fishes. On, •                               146  Meteorology,        78, 158, 236, 239. S18,
  Fluoric   compounds,                         S3                                     398, 471
 Fctrster-s Metereologicol    observ.   79, 158,  Millin on tombs,                         225
                           239, 318, 398, 471     Minerals.     Subscription collections of,
 'French Institute,                 50, 63, 140                                       314, 396
 Fulminating silver,      fin,         237, 304   MirbeCs botanical remarks,                 57
  Gaits craniology, 71, 251,305, 370,             Moorings.      On,                       294
                                       3%-, 470   Nautical Almanac.        Errors in,        16
  Galvanic trough improved,                    15 Obercampe      on combinations of gold,
  Gas lights.     On,                        S68                                           408
  Gcsomeler. Hume-s, 1; remarks on,106            Osmium.       On,                         -51
  Gehlen-s process for formic acid,          152  Oxides of gold. On,.                     408
  Gelatinous ^meteors or shooting stars,          Palladium.      On,                        3.1
                                       224, 253   Park, Mungo.         Rumours concerning,
  Geology,                         52, 241, 472                                             150
  Gilby-s geolog. description of neigh            Patents. List of,              76, 157, 398
      bourhood of Bristol,                   241  Philosophical Society, Riga,               64
  Gladiators.     Remarks on,                225  Plhogiston.     Attempt to revive,         30
  Glamorganshire.       Stratification of, 427    Physiognomy,                    71, 251, 305
  Gold.     On combinations,                 408  Platina. On,                          33, 51
  Gregory against Thomson,                   181  Plumbcg: Combustion of, by a lens,
  Guignes-s Chinese Dictionary,              383                                            434
  Hail-storms in the West Ind'es,             191 Pompeia.      Excavations in,              69
  Hamilton on hail-storms in the West             Prize questions,                       63, 66
      Indies,                                 191 Prussic acid found in bark of prunut
  Home on secretions,                          49    padus,                                 316
  Honey, to obtain without destroying              Rain.     Singular kinds of,             253
      the bees,                        144,'316    Ramsden. Biography of,                   462
  Honey dews.       On,                       254  Rhodium.      On,                          33
  House-breaking.       Guard against,       304   Rome. Museum forming at,                 894-
  Housham on formation of bones,               49  Ronalds-s electric column.      De Luc on,
  Hume-s gazometer, 1 ; remarks on, 10«                                                     249
  Ibbetson (Mrs.) on the cuticle of leaves,        Ronalds on electricity,                  442
                                              161  Royal Bavarian Academy,                    66
  Insect.     A  new species observed in a         Royal Society ,      49, 139, 392, 393, 465
      mummy,                                  131  Rmr.fvrd (Count) death of, 150; bio
  Insects. On eyes of, 107, 183, 274;                graphy o% i                            293
      observations    upon, 133; anatomy           Russell Institution,               896, 471
      of,                                     148  Sadler-s aerial voyaje,                    IB
  Iodine.     Experiments on,             S, 355   Saltpetre.    Kidd on,                   415
   Iron cables.    On.                        294  Salts of gold.    On,                    408
   Kidd on saltpetre,                         415  Sciences.    Progress of, in France,       25
   Learned Societies, 49, 63, 64, 65, 66,          Sea-water.     Analysis of,                27
                                        139, 463   Secretions. Influence of nerves on, 49
   Leaves.     On cuticle of,                 161  Seguin on aerolites,                     212
   Light.     On affections of, 261, 323;          Ships- cables.    Improvement in,        294
      produced by compression of gases,            Showers of fire, gelatine, oil, honey,
      also by their expansion,                313     brimstone, &c.                        Mt

476                                 INDEX.
Silica.   On sublimation of,           441   Turpentine charcoal.    On,           <H
Stiver.   Combustion of,               3J3   Ultramarine.     On artificial,.       SO
Snow coloured,                          23   Upas poison.    On action of,         140
Sjjkurzhenn's craniology , 7 1, 251, 805,    Urine.   Sulphur in,                   71
                            370, 39C, 4f-8   Vaccination in Sweden,                 73
Stnffa island.    On,                  445   Van Mans: letter of,                  467
Tea jilaut cultivated in France,        70   Vases, antique,                    68, 69
Telescope*.    On,                     4G1   Vauifuetin on palladium and rhodiun,
Tenuaut on double distillation,         49      33; on combustion of metals,       313
Ttwiusotfs opinions respecting   the trig*.  Volcanic island.   Anew,              3*5
   nometrieal sitriey.    On,          18-1  Walker's chemical pliilosophy,2"0,350,
Tuts. supernumerary.      Family with, 17                                          43S
Tombs.      On antient,                225   Worms.     Habitudes of,              MS
Trigonometrical survey. On Thomson           Weights and Measures.      Report on, 171
    wl  Delambre's opinions on,        181   Zinc, improper for culinary vessel«»53
                   END OF THE FORTY- FOURTH VOLUME.
              Printed  ly Richard  tM  Arthur Taylor, Slurs Lane,  Lvnimt.



Fiq.l.
r      i

"'<

-








                &"1
A
   The luptuvl eUyat
 m<u, he
         gradually
tul position B or tj
mediate point
                6r/i^
tiorreab/f.



*
  I



           C   9- It
XX DOE 2bh Olb


