The philosophical magazine.
London, England : Taylor & Francis, 1798-c1977.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uva.x002266032
                              Public Domain, Google-digitized
                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                              We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                              meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                              free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                              in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                              heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                              of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                              copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                              of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                              need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                              address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                              produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                              on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                              the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                              or used commercially. The images are provided for
                              educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.





                              »   THE
PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
                   AND JOURNAL:
                            COMPREHENDING
        THE VARIOUS BRANCHES OF SCIENCE,
              THE LIBERAL AND FINE ARTS,
                           GEOLOGY,
                      AGRICULTURE,
          MANUFACTURES AND COMMERCE.
             BY ALEXANDER TILLOCH,
    M.R.I.A. M.G.S. M.R.A.S. Munich, F.S.A.  Edin. and Perth,  &c.
For  JULY, AUGUST, SEPTEMBER, OCTOBER, NOVEMBER,
                       and  DECEMBER,      1818.
                             LONDON:
     rEINTED BT KICHARD AND ARTHUR TAYLOR, SHOE LANE:
 And  sold by Cadell and Da vies ; Longman, Hurst, Ries, Orme, and
       Brown; Highley; Sherwood and Co.; Harding; Under
          wood, London:   Constable and Co. Edinburgh : Brash
             and Reid; Duncan; and Penman, Glasgow; and
                      Gilbert and Hodges, Dublin.

  \
227556

                      CONTENTS
         OF THE FIFTY-SECOND VOLUME.
EXPERIMENTS             made upon the hard Water at Black Rock-
   near Cork,    with  a view to render the Waters of Limestone
   Districts more applicable    to domestic Uses.          . .       . .     3
Account    of a North American Quadruped supposed              to belong to
   the Genus Ovis.           ..        . .       . .      . .       . .      8
Account    of the Gold  and Silver Mines      of Hungary.           .  .   12
Account    of the  Process  of Amalgamation          used at Halsbr'uck
  near Freyberg in Saxony,        for    the Extraction        of Gold   and
   Silver from other Ores.            . .       . .       . .       . .    26
Observation^ on the various Changes which take place on treat
   ing Uric with Nitrous Acid, and on a new Acid called " Ery-
  thric"   thence produced                      . .       . .       . .    30
Account of an electrical Invreaser for the unerring Manifesta
  tion of small Portions of the Electric Fluid                             47
On the New Astronomical Circle at Greenwich                                52
On Chemical Philosophy.              .  .     ...        . .       53,   1 13
On   the Fructification of Seeds.     .,        . .      . .        , .    81
On the Comparative     Powers  of Algebra and Vulgar Arithmetic.
                                                                           88
An Account of Experiments for determining             the Length       of the
  Pendulum vibrating Seconds in the Latitude            of London. 90,
                                                                  173, 416
Vol. 52. No. 248. Dec. 1818.                 a                    Accoun t

                                CONTENTS.
 Account   of Experiments       made by the Assay Master of the King
    of the Netherlands, at the Mint of Utrecht, on the Native Cop
   per existing in Blocks on the South Side of Lake Superior. 1 00
Experiments on        the  Relation between Muriatic Acid and Chlo
   rine                                                                      101
Experiments on Muriatic Acid Gas, with Observations on its
   Chemical Constitution, and on some other Subjects of Chemi
   cal Theory                                                                107
Observations     relating   to the Operations undertaken          to determine
   the Figure     of the Earth.        ..        . .        . .        ..119
On   the  Means    of airing    the Dry -Rot.    . .        . .        ... 131
On the Question " Whether Music is necessary to                  the  Orator —
   to what Extent, and how most readily attainable               ?"   161, 241,
                                                                             401
On the Astronomy         of the Orientals.       . .        ..               168
On   the  Performance of the Apollonicon constructed                by  Messrs.
   Flight    and Robson. ..             ..        ..        ..         ..    171
On the very correct Notions concerning               the Structure        of  the
   Earth, entertained by the Rev. John Michell,                    as  early   as
   the Year 1760                                 ..         ..         ..183
"Conjectures concerning        the Cause, and Observations            upon the
    Phcenomena,     of Earthquakes.        . .         . .      186, 254, 323
Experiments on Muriatic Acid Gas, with Observations on its
    Chemical Constitution, S?c. ..               ..         ..         ..195
 On   the Temperature       of the Mines in Cornwall                         204
Account    of a   Voyage to the Coast of Labrador and Quebec, in
    cluding Remarks on the comparative Temperature of the
    Eastern and Western Hemispheres.              . .        . .       . .   206
 On Arithmetical       Complements             . .         ..          ..210
 Comparative       Trials of the respective Merits of              " Massey's
    Patent Sounding Machine," and one known by the Name of
    Gould and Burt's Buoy and Knipper.                       ..        .. 213
 On the Modulus          of Elasticity of Air, and           the Velocity       of
    Sound. .   .        ..       ..     ..        ..                    ..   214

                               CONTENTS.
 On the Theory of Water-Spouts.                   . .     ..       . .    216
A   Method    of determming      the specific Heat    of Bodies from     their
   Expansion.         ..       ..       ..       ..        ..      . .    25 1
On the Swallow.       . .      . .      . .       . .     . .      . .    27 1
On the real Difference between the specific Gravity of the Hu
   man Body and Sea-water.              ..        ..       . .     ..     282
Hungarian Agriculture,         and Improvements       in the Management
   of Sheep   and Cattle.      ,.       ..        ..               ..     283
New Method for purifying Coal Gas, and at the same time in
   creasing the Product from a given Quantity of Coals.                   292
Improvement in the Method of forming Electrical Planispheres.
                                                                          293
 On the received Theory       of Heat.
                                                 • •
                                                           . .    294, 460
 Theory  of the Magnetical Variation.             ..      . .      ..     295
On the Seasons which are most favourable to the Growth of
   Fungi, &c. with an Account of some of remarkable Growth
   this present Year.          ..       ..       ..       . .      . .    299
 On measuring the Depths         of Cavities  seen on the    Surface   of  the
   Moon                                 ,                                 321
Account    of certain    Improvements     in Involution and Evolution.
                                                                          341
An alphabetical Arrangement of the Places from whence Fossil
   Shells have been obtained by Mr. James Sowerby, and drawn
   and described in Vol. II. of his " Mineral Conc/wlogy," 348
Description of a new Apparatus for impregnating Liquids with
   Gases.   . .      ..        ..                ..       ..       ..     370
 On purifying    Coal-Gas, and increasing the Quantity produced
  from   a given Weight      of Coals.           ..       ..       ..371
Remarks on a Paper by Major-General Brisbane, on the Me
   thod of determining the Time, the Error, and Rate of a Chro
   nometer, by Altitudes taken with a Sextant from an artificial
   Horizon.           ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       .. 409
 On the Length of the French Metre estimated in Parts of the
   English Standard.           ..       ..       . .      ..       . .    43 1
On the Preservation       of Seeds, the Use of Lime in Agriculture,
   and  former    State   of Cultivation in Scotland                      436

                         CONTENTS.
New Experiments    on some  of the    Combinations     of Phosphorus.
                                                                   440
Comparison   between the Chords of Arcs employed by         Ptolbmy,
   and those now iu Use.            . .      ..       . .     . .  454
On the Structure  of the poisonous Fangs       of Serpents.   . .  457
Notices respecting New Books.         58, 132, 222, 300, 373, 461
Proceedings  of Learned  Societies.     . .  62, 141, 223, 301, 465
Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles. 62, 153, 224, 305, 375,
                                                                   466
List of Patents                        76, 155, 235, 316, 395, 469
Meteorological Tables,    77—80, 156—160, 237—240,317—
                                          320, 396—400, 470—473
                                                                  THE

                                THE
       PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE
            AND JOURNAL.
 I.     Experiments made upon the hard Water at Black Hock
      near Cork, with a view to render the Waters of Limestone
      Districts more applicable to domestic Uses, By Edmund
      Davy, Professor of Chemistry and Secretary to the Cork In'
      Stilution.
                          To   Mr.   Tilloch.
There        is a striking similarity in the appearance and in the
  composition of the great arrangements of Nature in different
  countries, and it extends to the waters, as well as to the atmo
 sphere and the solid strata of the earth.       The chemical consti
  tution of water is uniformly the same in every part of the globe,
 and all the variable properties it exhibits in different situations,
 whether evanescent or permanent, are principally owing to a di
 versity of soil. All natural waters contain a variable quantity of
 foreign ingredients, which they derive from the strata through
 which they flow, or the atmosphere by which they are sur
 rounded.      The purest springs usually rise in beds of gravel, or
 in siliceous or argillaceous rocks, alid they contain, for the most
 part, only a minute portion of saline matter, which is principally
 common salt.       The waters of limestone or calcareous districts
generally contain a much larger quantity of solid ingredients.
The substances they frequently hold in solution are carbonate
and sulphate of lime, and these earthy salts occasion that pecu
liar quality in waters, commonly known by the name of hardness.
Hard waters, as is well known, do not readily dissolve soap, or
form a good lather with it ; on the contrary, they partially de
compose    it,  and
                  a   light flocculent substance     produced, which
                                                    is
is   insoluble in water.     Hence such waters, in their common
state, are unfit for washing, and for other domestic purposes     ;
and they are conceived to be very inferior to soft waters, for
making vegetable infusions, such as tea, coffee, &c.
    The waters in the limestone strata, in the county of Cork, so,
far as I   can learn, and especially those situated in such strata on
the south side of the river Lee near Cork, belong to the class of
    Vol. 52. No.243. July 1818.                 A   2             hard

4                     Experiments maJe uj.on
hard waters;    whilst the waters that occur in the grauwackc", or
the siliceous and argillaceous rocks, particularly these on the
north side of the river, are perfectly soft, more pellucid, and
better tasted.
    An intelligent friend who resides at Black Rock, lately in
formed me that the want of sott water was much felt in that
neighbourhood • and that a sufficient supply, especially in dry
seasons, could only be obtained with dTfficulty and at a consi
derable expense.      To obviate the inconveniences which in those
respects   were  felt  by a family of my acquaintance, I recom
mended the use of a little potash or soda in the water, from an
idea that its hfirdness arose from the presence of an earthy salt,
and that the addition of an alkali would separate the earthy
matter, and render the water soft. This suggestion was imme
 diately adopted, and potash is still emploved, with perfect suc
 cess, to produce the desired effect.
    It occurred to me, that a chemical examination of the water
 at Black Rock might probably lead to some simple modes of
 obviating its hardness, and making it more generally applicable
 to domestic uses.     With these views I undertook some experi
 ments upon it ; and I am not without hopes that the result of
 my investigation will be of some utility, not only to the inhabi
 tants of that district, but also to those in other parts of the coun
 try where limestone prevails, and imparts to the waters that flow
 through  it, those peculiarities that distinguish the water at Black
Rock.
  The Black Rock water       I    examined, was procured at different
times from   a  deep well in the village of Ballintemple,          about a
mile and half from Cork, and two hundred paces from the river.
The village      situated on secondary limestone.
                is                                       1   do not know
the extent of the limestone district in this part of the county,
hut I   understand   itreaches in an easterlv and westerly direction,
with little or no interruption,     a    distance of many leagues, ami
abounds,    in many places    at  least,  witha    variety of organic re
mains,   some  of  which  are  rather novel and urrious.
    Though have not made an accurate chemical analysis of the
           I
water in question,   I  presume my experiments will be found suf
ficiently minute for practical purposes.           I   purpose briefly to
notice the effects of different chemical agents upon the water           ;
—-to point out the causes of its hardness — and to deduce from
                                               ;
facts and experiments, some simple, and         I    trust efficient modes
of rendering    itmore subservient to the common purposes of life.
    1. As soonas the water was taken from the well,           it    was put
into- bottles or stone jars, well corked,      and usually examined im
mediately on its arrival in Cork.           The water, on being drunk
fresh from the pump,       is   said to be rather brisk and pleasant,
                                                          •
                                                                   though

               the   hard Water at Black Rock-near Cork.                            5
^though: there are some who do not think its flavour agreeable.
After it has been exposed to the air a little time, it acquires a
 degree of flatness, and produces in the mouth an unpleasant
 taste, as though it contained putrid matter.    The insipid and
   disagreeable flavour of the water after exposure to the atmo
   sphere, seems to be owing to a loss of air from a diminution of
   atmospheric pressure ; for no sooner is the water raised from the
   well, than small globules of air are disengaged from              and thisit,
   effect continues for some time.
       2. The water gradually changes litmus paper, and gives to its
   bine colour partial tints of red but this change does not take
                                            :
   place after the water has been boiled.           The mineral acids, as
   the muriatic and sulphuric, disengage from the water minute
   globules of gas; indeed the water                 by
                                                simple exposure to the air
   evolves gas; and this effect        ispromoted              by
                                                          the addition of an
   acid, and destroyed          that of an alkali.
                               by                       Limewater in small
   quantity occasions an immediate cloudiness in the water, which
  soon disappears, and the water resumes its former transparency;
   but when added          large proportion, there
                          in                                 permanent de
                                                                    is   a
  position of carbonate of lime.         Even after the water has boiled,
  limewater occasions         milkiness
                               a            in   but this effect
                                                it   ;              not pro  is
   duced after the boiling has been kept up for               quarter of an
                                                                         a
  hour. These results prove that the water contains an uncombined
  acid that this acid
      ;                        the carbonic, and that continued boiling
                               is
 is   necessary to expel it.                         •                   .
      3. After the water had been exposed in            large shallow glass
                                                               a,
  vessel toa     warm atmosphere, upon the top of the Observatory
  of -the Institution, (during the greater part of two fine summer
  days in June,) an extremely thin and scarcely perceptible earthy
   crust "began to form on its surface.          This crust dissolved with
  effervescence       diluted muriatic acid, and its earthv matter was
                 by in
  precipitated       the fixed alkalies      their caustic and carbonated
                                                in
  state, but not         by
                          ammonia.      Hence      was carbonate of lime
                                                          it
  originally   held in   solution,  as  would  seem    from the foregoing
  f- iteiiients,by   carbonic acid gas.      The separation of carbonate
  of lime in this case          to be referred to the diminished solvent
                               is
  power of the water, arising from the loss of a portion of carbonic
  acid, and of water,          by
                                evaporation.    The water, after the ex
  posure mentioned, still rendered limewater milky, and afforded
  with alkaline substances, a precipitate, having similar properties
  to the earthv crust already noticed.           And these circumstances
  siem to prove that the water still contained carbonic acid gas
  feiid carbonate of limp'.
                                   :
      4. The water immediately decomposes an aqueous solution of
  soap, and a white flocculent substance swims upon the surface.
  Hence the water in its common state              unfit for washing.
                                                          is                       If
•
                                    A3                            a solution

6                      Experiments made upon
                                                              or carbonated
a solution of fixed alkali, in its common caustic
                                                                   and there
state, is added to the water, a cloudiness is produced,
                                                            on examination
is a gradual deposition of earthy matter, which
                                The     water   in   consequence     of such
proves to be calcareous.
                                                         soap,   and  may be
treatment becomes soft, does not decompose
used for washing and other domestic purposes.
                                                                   for fifteen
     5. If the water is boiled, and the boiling continued
                                                              which renders
 or twenty minutes, a quantity of air is disengaged,
                                                               matter, which
 limewater milky, and there is a deposition of earthy
                                                            After this treat
 exhibits all the characters of carbonate of lime.
 ment the water becomes soft, and may           be  employed for washing
                                                                       of im-
 and other culinary purposes : limewater is now incapable
                                                                     the   pure
 pairng its transparency, and it is scarcely
                                                      affected by
                              Hence, it seems, the carbonic          acid   gas
 or carbonated alkalies.
                                                                be separated
 and carbonate of lime contained in the water may
 by continued boiling.
                                                         of silver becomes
     6. The water when treated with nitrate
                                         of a portion of common salt.
  cloudy, indicating the presence
                                                             a very minute
  Pure ammonia added to the water separates
                                                  a little magnesian salt,
  quantity of earthy matter, and indicates
 which is probably the muriate.           Nitrate of barytes produce* a
                                    a trace of alkaline or earthy sul
  very slight effect, and shows
                                             nor solution of oak bark oc
 phate. Neither prussiate of potash
                                             several hours ; from whence
  casions any change in the water after
  the absence of iron in it may be inferred.
                                                   are founded upon ex
     From the foregoing statements, which
                               and repeated, I venture to conclude,
  periments carefully made
                                              an excess of carbonic acid
  that the Black Rock water contains                                       This
                                 a portion of carbonate of lime.
  gas, which holds in solution                                      and   espe
                                     its peculiar    characters,
  earthy salt gives to the water
                       which  is its   distinguishing quality. The wa
  cially its hardness,                                       such as muriate
  ter certainly contains other foreign ingredients,
                                                   these substances (com
  of soda, and a little magnesian salt ; but
                                         scarcely   worthy of notice, be
  mon to almost every water) are                                             tt;e
                                        too small to be sensible to
  cause they exist in quantities
                                             effect.    From some compa
  taste, or to produce any medicinal
                                              made upon the pipe-water
  rative experiments I have recently
                                      the Black Rock water, there seems
  commonly drunk in Cork, and
                                         in the foreign ingredients com
  to be a great similarity, not only
                                                          they contain ; with
   mon to both, but also in the actual quantities
                                    gas and carbonate of lime peculiar
   the exception of the carbonic
   to the Black Rock water.       And if the pipe-water were impreg
                                          gas and a portion of
                                                                   limewater,
   nated with an excess of carbonic                             natural   water
                              be formed similar to the
   an artificial water would
   at Black Rock.                                                        modes
                                       seem to lead to two simple
      The preceding experiments                                                of

               the hard Water at Black Rock near Cork.                         7
of   improving the Black Rock water, by which it may be rendered
soft, and more generally applicable to the purposes of life. One
is, by the use of an alkaline substance ; —the other, by continued
boiling for at least a quarter of an hour.           And it may be pros
per to make a few remarks upon each of those methods.
     1. It is well known to chemists, that waters naturally hardy
from whatever cause their hardness may arise, are rendered soft
by an alkali ; and the fixed alkalies, in their caustic or car
bonated state, afford a general remedy, applicable to every par
ticular case of the kind, that can occur.            Boiling, on the con
trary, is only a particular remedy for hardness in Waters, in cases
when it arises, as in the water at Black Rock, from carbonate
of lime held in solution by carbonic acid gas. The acid being
volatile, and it3 combination with the earthy salt retained by a
feeble affinity, their union is destroyed by continued boiling; the
earthy salt (the cause of the hardness in the water) being pre
 cipitated, and the acid expelled.          In other cases, where the
 quality of hardness in waters is occasioned by the presence of
 sulphate or muriate of lime, &c. no changes can be produced in
such waters by boiling, and the agency of an alkali is indispensa
bly necessary to render them soft. The addition of any alkaline
substance to the Black Rock water, such as potash or soda and
 their carbonates'; the substances known in commerce by the
 names of kelp, barilla, pearlash, &c. will all neutralize the fixed
 air in the water, precipitate its earthy matter, and render it soft.
 I found about ten grains of pure dry soda sufficient to rendet a
 gallon of the water perfectly soft ; but the use of this substance
 is precluded, from its expense, and the difficulty of procuring              it,
 in this part of the country.          conceive about twenty grains of
                                       I
 the common potash or soda of commerce would answer the same
 purpose.      As any of the alkaline substances before enumerated
 may    be used  with success,     few practical trials would be suffi
                                   a
 cient to enable any one to decide upon the alkali that              is  the
 most efficient and oeconomical.         In cases when the water         isto
 be rendered soft        byan alkali, for the purpose of washing, no
 danger can be apprehended from              slight excess of alkali on
                                                 a                       ;
 the contrary,  it  would be an advantage         for the alkali, as
                                                      ;              is well
 known,   is  the efficient cleansing principle in soap.       It  would,     I
  think, be advisable to add the alkali to the water previous to
 its being heated    : and to stir it until      itdissolved.
                                                      is       A   friend of
 mine wbb informed that limewater might be used for improving
  the water    byseparating the fixed air          contains.
                                                      it        Lime      al
                                                                         is
  most the only common substance possessing alkali ue properties,
  that cannot be employed for such a purpose; the existence of
  the smallest quantity of    itin water
                                   a            sufficient to give
                                                     is             it
                                                                     a  cer
  tain degree of hardness.      It" to- the salts of lime, particularly
                                       is;
                                       A     4                           the

3              Account    of a North American        Quadruped,
the sulphate and carbonate, that the greater number of hard wa-.
ters owe this peculiar quality.
    2. It is to be remembered that simply boiling the Black Rock
water is not sufficient to render it soft.         To produce this effect,
the boiling must be continued for- fifteen or twenty minutes. And
this fact serves to explain a seeming paradox.              It is generally
 admitted that hard waters do not draw tea so well as soft wafers :
yet the hard water at Black Rock is said to answer extremely
 well for this purpose. But in most cases, it maybe observed, the
 water is unintentionally allowed to boil at least fifteen or twenty
 minutes previous to the making of the tea ; and thus the hard
 water, without any design, is rendered soft.             I have however
 heard occasional complaints of the tea not drawing well, or
 much worse than usual.           In such instances, it seems reasonable
 to suppose that the water really was bard, having been merely
 brought to boil, and immediately poured upcn tlie tea.              Hence
 the expediency of allowing the Black Rock wat 'r to boil for some
 time previous to making tea with it.
     From the experiments I have made upon the Black Rock water,
 I am of opinion that, after it has been boiled the requisite time
 mentioned, it is well adapted for every domestic and manufac
 turing purpose. It loses its nauseous flavour, and almost the whole
 of its earthy matter, and becomes perfectly well tasted. Cer
 tainly, boiled water is rather insipid for drinking, when compared
 with spring water, owing, it is conceived, to the separation of air.
 But this defect might be easily remedied : —             If,
                                                          for example, the
 boiled water; when cold,- were          made   to  ooze slowly through a
 filtering vessel, or passed through a large stone or              piece of
                                                                    a
 wood pierced with         anumber of small holes, or even through a
 very fine sieve, the water        by such exposure would absorb pure
 atmospheric      air, lose its  insipidity, and would afford to water-
 drinkers   a  pleasant   and   wholesome    beverage.
    Cork Institution, June 16, 1818.
II.     Account   of a     North American Quadrvped supposed to            be
               long to   the Genus Ovh    ; George Ord*.
                                                by
                 Rocky-Mountain         Sheep   — Ovis   montana.
In  the Journal of Lewis and Clark, there        an account of
                                                          is                a
quadruped   which   appears  to have not  excited  that attention
which     merits. . The following extracts are made from the
          it
above-mentioned works       " Saw the skin of a mountain sheep,
                               :
    *
        From Journal of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia.
                                                                        which

             -
               supposed to belong to the Genus Ovls.                9
which the Indians say lives among the rocks in the mountains :
the skin was covered with white hair, the wool long, thick and
coarse, with long coarse hair on the top of the neck and the
back, resembling somewhat the bristles of a goat." Vol. ii. p. 49.
    " The sheep is found in many places, but mostly in the tim
bered parts of the rocky mountains. They live in greater numbers
on the chain of mountains forming the commencement of the
woody country on the coast, and passing the Columbia be
tween the fa'ls and rapids."      Vol. ii. p. 169.
    The latter passage was written while our travellers wintered
at the mouth of the Columbia river.           But on their return, at
Brant Island, an Indian " offered two sheep skins for sale : one,
which was the skin of a full-grown sheep, was as large as that
of a common deer; the second was smaller, and the head part,
with the horns remaining, was made into a cap, and highly
prized as an ornament by the owner.        The Clahelellahs informed
us that the sheep are very abundant on the heights, and among
the cliffs, of the adjacent mountains ; and that these two had
been lately killed out of a herd of thirty-six, at no great di
stance from the village." Vol. ii. p. 233.
    " The Indians assert, that there are great numbers of the
white buffalo, or mountain sheep, on the snowy heights of the
mountains west of Clark's river.          They generally inhabit the
rocky and most inaccessible parts of the mountain, but, as they
are not fleet, are easily killed by the hunters." Vol. ii. p. 331.
     In the above passages, we are made acquainted with the im
portant fact, that besides the Argali or big-horned sheep, we
have another species in North America of the genus Ovis.          The
smaller of the two skins, which the Indian offered to sale at
 Brant Island, was purchased by Capt. Lewis, and was presented
by him to the museum of Philadelphia.           It is undoubtedly the
skin of a young animal: it measures three feet from the inser
 tion of the tail to the neck, its breadth is twenty-six inches ;
 the tail is short, but it was probably not skinned to the end ;
 along the back there runs a ridge of coarse hair, about three
 inches in length, and bristled up in the manner of that of the
 common goat ; this ridge is continued up the neck, forming ,i
 kind of mane, and is thicker, coarser, and longer there than that
 of the back ; the whole of the skin is closely covered with short
 wool, of an extreme fineness, surpassing in this quality that of
 any breed with which I am acquainted, not excepting the wool
  of the Merino lamb — a coat of hair conceals this wool, but on
  dividing the former with the hands, the latter lies so thick that
  the hairs arc scarcelv visible : the ears are narrow, and taper to
  a point, they are nearly four inches long; the whole is white ;

             '
  10           Account     of a North American Quadruped
 the horns appear to have stood on the top of the head, some
 what in the manner of those of a goat, or of those on the figure
 of Shaw's Pigmy Antelope, Gen. Zool. vol. ii. plate 188, and
 vignette on the title-page.          Put one * horn is now attached to
 the skin, and that measures three inches and three quarters in
 length, on the fore part ; it is slightly recurved, cylindrical and
 acuminated, its base is somewhat tumid, and, with its lower
 half, is scabrous, its upper part smooth, obsoletely striated, and
 of a black colour.
    A cut of this horn, of the size of na
 ture, accompanies this account, by which
 figure it will be evident to the naturalists,
 that the above described sheep is a di
 stinct species.      It is true that the animal
 was young, and we have no positive evi
 dence that when full-grown or old the
 horns do not increase in size, so as to re
semble those of some well-known species
 or varieties of the genus. One of Lewis
 and Clark's men informed them that he
had seen the animal in the Black Hills,
 and that the horns were lunated like
those of the domestic sheep. The Indians
 asserted that the horns were erect and
pointed.      The latter account is the more
probable, as it has been remarked by
travellers, that in describing those natural
productions with which they are conver
sant, our Indians seldom deviate from the
truth.
    We would incite the attention of our
citizens to this important discovery ; for
although the Spanish missionaries in 1697
made mention of this sheep, and it is
again noticed in Venegas' History of Ca-
liforniaf, yet     these accounts were discredited.            It is Captain
Lewis to whom belongs the honour of having been the first to
assure his countrymen, by the exhibition of a genuine specimen,
that the animal does exist.           How subservient to the wants and
pleasures of mankind it may be rendered by domestication, we
cannot at present declare ; but there is room for conjecture, that
the introduction of this new species of a race of quadrupeds im-
memorially ranked among the most valuable of the gifts of the
            *   The other horn is in Peale's Museum.
            f   Vol. i. p. 36, English translation, London, 1/69.
                                                                     Creator,

               supposed  to lelong to the Genus  Ovis.             1 1
Creator, will confer    a lasting benefit upon the agricultural   and
manufacturing interests of the community.
    Since writing the foregoing, I have seen the three first volumes
of the Nouveau Diciionnaire d'Histoire Naturelle, which work
is now publishing in Paris ; and in the article Antelope, I find
n description of an American quadruped, which M in the collec
tion of the Linnean Society of London. This description ap
pears to have been extracted from a memoire, read before the
PhilomatiqUe Society of Paris, by M. de Blainville, wherein the
author proposes a new arrangement of the ruminants with hol
low and persistent horns, and a subdivision of the Genus Anti-
lope; and classes the above animal under the name of Rupira-
pra americana. — (Bulletin de la Societe Philomatique, 1816,
p. 80.)- As I have not the satisfaction of seeing the Bulletin, I
must be content with the information conveyed in the article ia
 the Nouveau Diciionnaire.       The specimen is said to be of the
bigness of a middling sized goat ; the body is entirely covered
with long pendent hair, silky and totally white, but not curled ;
the head is elongated, without a muzzle or naked part ; the ears
of a middling size ; the forehead not protuberant ; the horns
 are short, tolerably thick, black, slightly annulated, they are
round, almost straight, bent backwards, and terminated in a
blunt point (pointe mousse) ; the legs are short, stout, and sup
 ported on short and thick hoofs ; the tail is hardly perceptible,
perhaps on account of the length of the hair. M. de Blainville
inclined to the opinion that this animal is the same as the Pudu
of Molina, Shaw's Gen. Zool. vol. ii. p. 392.
     It is probable that the specimen belonging to the Linnean
Society is of the same species as that brought by Captain Lewis ;
and it is further probable that M. de Blainville was not permitted
to examine his subject as closely as was requisite, otherwise th*
important circumstance of the thick coat of wool, beneath th*
outer covering of straight hair, would not have escaped his at
tention. As to the horns being obtuse, this may hai'e arisen
from an accident, or some other cause.
     It is much to be wished that some traveller would bring a
 living specimen of this singular quadruped, or at least a dead
 specimen, in such a state as should enable the naturalist to de
 termine, with precision, its characters.     From the information
derived from Captain Lewis, and from the descriptions above,
we cannot, with propriety, arrange this animal with the ante
lopes; and if it should not prove to be a true Ovis, it will,
 probably, constitute a new genus, and take Us station, in tb*
systems, between the sheep and the goat.
                                                             III. Ac-

  •••
                                 [   12     1    -
  lit. Account    of the Gold and Silver Mines of Hungary.            By
                       Richard Bright, M.D.*
  The     early history of the Hungarian mines is involved in some
  obscurity, but it is probable that the Saxons or Germans who
  came to Hungary about the twelfth century first explored these
  mineral treasures.         The Emperor Charles Robert founded
 •Schmolnitz, and. brought mining to some perfection.          This state
  of prosperity seems to have ceased in some degree at the be
  ginning of the sixteenth century ; but Ferdinand the First, and
 a succesioirof kings who followed him, improved it greatly.
 During the period of their greatest prosperity, it is said that the
 mines of Hungary have given occupation to above 30,000 per
 sons, of whom above 10,000 are reckoned in the districts of
 Sehemnitz and Kremnitz.
 •   Sehemnitz. — In order to give a general view of the mining
 district of Sehemnitz, it must be mentioned that the whole of
 the mountain mass is a species of clays tone porphyry, here called
 the saxum metalliferum; the mountain caps being pretty ge
 nerally of grunstein, a species of basaltic rock.
  •
     The mineral district is of considerable extent. I have no ex
 act information on this subject, but suppose, from the marks
 which were pointed out to me as showing the limits of the me
 tallic country, that the whole might be included in an extent of
 five or six square miles.
     There are five principal mineral veins (or courses) which run
 almost parallel to each other nearly east aiid west, each from ten
to twenty fathoms in thickness, at the distance of from 00 to
300 or 400 fathoms from each other, and are connected by va
rious small branches ; they have been followed to between 200
and 300 fathoms in depth.          When, however, we speak of the
great veins being ten or twelve fathoms in thickness, it must not
be supposed that the vein of ore extends to this width ; — all that
is meant is, that to this breadth the nature of the rsck varies
from that of the'mass of the mountain, and in . this part feldspar
generally- prevails over all the other component parts.         This mi
neral course .or vein is throughout intersected by metallic veins
of various sizes, some from two to four inches thick, of rich ore,
with quartz,- calcareous. spar, &c, and thence branching off in
small collateral veins sometimes hardly larger than a thread, and
scarcely affording a trace of the ore.        Every little appearance is
however     followed   by - the miner   with  hope, though his pursuit
often ends in disappointment.         It is but seldom that these indi
cations lead him beyond what are called the walls of the great
vein or gangue.
          * From Travels from Vienna through Lower Hungary.
                                                                       In

           Account of the  Gold and Silver Mines      of Hungary.      13
     In these extensive courses there are twelve royal mines, which
extend over a space of about 2200 toises by 900, or nearly 1200
English acres, besides a number belonging to private individuals,
who are obliged to dispose of all the ores they obtain to the
royal smelting works at a fixed rate. The whole of these mines
have a communication          with each   other at what is called the
Emperor Francis's adit or level, at the depth of ISO toises, or
nearly 200 fathoms, which is the lowest point at which they
have hitherto been able to give the water a free egress: — to this
therefore they are obliged to' raise all which collects in the deeper
workings. The whole length of this subterraneous canal from
the valley into which it opens, is said to be above twelve miles.'
 They have for the last thirty years been at work upon a new
water-level at a considerably greater depth than this, to be called
 after the Emperor Joseph.         It opens into the river Gran, and
 is supposed to be the lowest possible level at which the water
 can be drawn off.        Although it is as yet far from being finished,
 some of the mines have already experienced benefit from it.
      Owing to several causes, the returns from these mines are by
 no means so regular as they foranerly were. This arises partly
 from the actual exhaustion of the minerals, and in part from
 the financial circumstances of Austria, which are supposed to
 render it unable to carry on the works with the former ardour,
 and more particularly prevent it from paying the private mining
 companies with sufficient liberality to encourage their exertions.
      According to the usual stipulations, these private adventurers
 are to deliver their ores in n state fit for the smelting furnaces,
 and to receive 19 florins and ~| (equal to about 21. 8s. sterl.)
  for every mark (eight ounces) of pure silver, which is in fact worth
  twenty-four florins of the silver currency of Austria; but under
  the present circumstances (April 1815) when the paper cur
  rency is depreciated to about one-fourth in value of the silver
  currency, these companies are paid            florins in silver, and the
  other moiety in paper, which reduces their reimbursement to
  less than twelve florins in silver currency per mark.        The conse
  quence is, that they do no more work than is just sufficient to
  preserve an undisputed right to their mines ; for, bv the mining
  laws, any person who discovers ore on a part of the mountains
  not yet appropriated as a mine, may work it for his own advan
  tage; but if he fail to dig a certain small quantity every fourteen-
  days he loses his right, and any other person mav possess himself
   of "it.
      The result actually is, that where before the Turkish and
   French war there were nearly 100,000 marks, that is 50.000
   pounds (of sixteen ounces) weight of silver brought in the course
   of a year into the mint at Kremnitz, the average quantity does
        '
                                                                       not

  14     Account of the Gold and Silver Mines   of Hungary.
  not now exceed one-third part of that amount, and the whole
  weight of gold seldom exceeds 100 marks per month.        Of this
 silver, the royal mines in the district of Schemnitz yield about
 25,000 marks annually, and about 300 marks of gold ; the rest
 is collected from the royal mines about Kremnitz, and the ad •
 ventures of private companies.
     Mine of Windshacht. — The principal objects of curiosity in
 the mine of Windshacht being the machinery, I was put under
 the care of the Ober Kemst Meister or chief director of the
 machines ; and being dressed in a miner's jacket, overalls and
  cap, and a leathern apron, we proceeded to the mouth of the
 shaft, where is erected the Bremse machine as it is here named,
 by which the ore is drawn up, and all materials for constructions
 or repairs let down into the mine.     This machine consists of a
 double overshot water-wheel, on which the water falls from a
 reservoir supplied by pipes from the hill which lies above it; and
 as the water is made to fall upon one side or the other of the
 wheel, it moves either in one direction or the contrary.       The
 axle of the water-wheel is connected to a cylindric beam sup
 ported at each end by masonry, round which is constructed a
 gigantic reel, upon which two cables are coiled in contrary di
 rections : thus the communication from the surface to the bot-»
 torn of the pit is carried on, the one winding and drawing up,
 whilst the other unwinds and lets down.      To regulate the mo
 tion of this massive engine, a fly-wheel of considerable diameter
 is connected with the axle near to the end at which the water
 acts; and it is by two beams, the one above and the other be
 neath, which can be brought in a moment to press upon this
fly, that the motion of the whole machine is checked and brought
under command.       The management of the regulator, as well as
the care of directing the water upon one side or other of the
water-wheel, is intrusted to one person, who standing at the
mouth of the mine directs the whole with ease and certainty.
    My next object was the machinery by which the water is lifted
from the deeper parts of the mines to the height of the Emperor
Francis's level : wc therefore descended that part of the Leopold
schacht which is appropriated to it.      The shaft we went down'
was completely perpendicular ; and the whole of this descent
was performed by means of ladders ; each ladder about ten steps
in length.    Having descended the fust, we came to a platform
of boards, on the opposite end of which was a trap-door which
opened upon the second ladder ; and having descended ten steps
more, we arrived at another platform, and so on.        In this way
we went down seventy-two klafters (fathoms), during the whole
of which we were close to the machinery, in a constant noise, and
amidst the continued dropping of water, which soon found its
                                                                way

          Account      of the Gold and Silver Mines of Hungary.       15
way through all our clothes.    I now employed myself in endea
vouring to comprehend the parts and the mode of action of this
great instrument ; and then having attended to the manner of
working of a few parties of miners, we proposed to reascend, which
we did by another shaft appropriated to the officers of the mine.
  This shaft was perfectly dry, and strongly cased with a frame
work of timber from the top to the bottom.        The necessary
supply of timber is a source of prodigious expense in the Hun
garian mines. The rock-stone is of a nature so liable to decom
pose, that they cannot employ it in walling these perpendicular
 shafts ; and the wood- work, however strong, seldom lasts above
 fifteen or twenty years, and in parts where the current of air i#
  not good, is destroyed in a much shorter time.
      As we approached the surface the cold became very severe,
and the sides of the pit were covered with ice. It is through
 this shaft that the current of fresh air passes into the mine; and
  I was told that the intensity of the cold was sometimes such as
 scarcely to be borne.
      The miners aTe usually divided into three parties, each re
 maining under ground eight hours at one time : those who have
 the care of the machinery remain twelve hours.               The whole
 number of persons employed in this mine is about 400.
      The machine which I had been viewing, and which was first
.constructed at Schemnitz about the year 1749 hv the chief
 engineer Hbil, was before the improvement of the steam-engine
 considered the most valuable for raising water out of mines which
 had ever been brought into use.
      It is worked by water exerting its force to establish its equili
 brium in an inverted siphon, and acting upon a moveable piston
 by its hydrostatic pressure. To apply
                                               it,
                                               it    isnecessary to have
 the command of water considerably above the engine; and this
is   effected at Schemnitz       by
                                 forming strong embankments in high
 mountain valleys, and thus creating large reservoirs in which the
 winter rains and melted snows collect.         Many of them are seen
 in the approach to the town.         From these ponds the water       is
 conducted        by
                  small canals, and falls through water-tight cast-
 iron pipes erected perpendicularly in the mine shaft. When           it
 has fallen a certain depth (in this case about forty-five fathoms)
it   is checked in its progress downwards, and forced,         by
                                                               the weight
 of its whole column in the descending pipe, into the bottom of
a    perpendicular cylinder of considerable diameter, in which         it
raises water-tight piston. As the piston ascends,
          a                                                itcarries with
it   two bars of wood, moving perpendicularly on the outside of
the cylinder, to which are attached four or more pump-rods, each
working       apump at     different level
                            a              ; the first raising the water
from the bottom to           acertain height, whence      it   raised one
                                                               is
                                                                    stage

    16    Account   of the Gold    and Silver Mines   of Hungaty.
    stage higher by a second, and so on stace by stage, to the re
    quired elevation on the level of the. main adit.     At the moment
    when the piston has been forced up to a given point, it acts
    by a simple collateral communication upon the stop-cock (which
    had been turned so as to suffer the water to enter the cylin
    der), and checks its progress downwards ; adjusts it again so
    as to cut off all communication         with the descending pipe;
    and opens a passage, through which the wat°r contained in
    the cylinder is at once discharged.       The piston of course de
    scends, carrying down with it the two wooden bars connected
    with the pump- rods, ai.d in the act of failing, by mean'! of the
    same collateral mechanism, closes the passage through which
    the water was discharged from the cylinder, and, opening the
    communication between the cylinder and the descending column
    of water in the pjpe, permits it to enter, and by its pressure again
    raise the piston.     In this way the simple piece of machinery
    maintains itself in constant and powerful action.       The ease and
    regularity of working is aided by a balance-beam connected by
    a chain with the head of the large piston and pump-rods.
       The machine is set in motion, or stopped, by turnings cock
    fixed in the descending pipe, by which the current of water is
    either permitted to pass into the machine, or its course entirely
    impeded.      The handle of the cock is always within reach of the
    attending engineer.     The quantity of water thrown into the cy
    linder is likewise regulated by     it,
                                          and consequently the velocity
    with which the pump-rods act.
       The water discharged from this engine         isconveyed further
    into the mine, where again serves to give motion to other ma-
                          it
    ehinery, until, having reached the level of the Emperor Francis's
'
    adit,it  there escapes with the water which it  had been the means
    of raising from the deepest workings.
       There are now three of these engines employed to keep the
    mines free from water  :    they have not however been found at
    all times sufficient, and  a fourth    now constructing. The whole
                                          is
    quantity of water raised       bythe three in twenty-four hours,      is
    49,365 eimers, each eimer containing 60- 811 Paris pints, or
    about sixteen gallons.
       The pipes containing the long column of descending water
    are cast in lengths of six or seven feet. They are not very
    firmly joined together ;   the joints being secured only  by   broad
    iron rings, fixed over the junction of each length       by  wooden
    wedges, which in ose of any unusual pressure of the water are
    thrown out, and the pipes themselves prevented from bursting;
    which,    if they were fastened together   by  Ranches and screws,
    might sometimes happen.
        Before leaving Windschacht,      I was taken to the engineer's
                                                                    office..

        Account   of the Gold  and Silver Mmes        of Hungary.        17
office, where numerous plans and sections of the mining district
were laid before me.       The whole country is intersected, at dif
ferent levels, by the galleries of mines, forming one stupendous
subterranean labyrinth, so well understood, however, that the
exact limit of each adventurer's right is known, and the moment
the ore has been traced to that boundary the workman stops ;
nor may he proceed until a compact has been made with the
neighbouring proprietor.      Besides genera) maps, there were par
ticular plans of each mine, with the most accurate surveys of all
its parts.
    Slephani-schacht,—We descended into this mine in the same
manner as we had done into that of Windschacht.                 When ar
rived at a certain depth, we turned into a gallery dark and dis
mal, and pursued for several hours its various windings.              The
workmen, with parties of whom we fell in at intervals, are divided
into companies of eight each, and are paid not only according
to the quantity but the> quality of the ore they collect, so that
they are themselves interested in the research ; as may indeed
be easily perceived by the different tone of voice in which they
speak when they have hit upon a good or a bad vein.                When
they find any pieces particularly rich, of wjiich they are very
accurate judges, they lay them aside in a bag, that they may not
be lost in the general mass.        The ore, when dug out, is placed
in a small oblong box or wheelbarrow, in which it is conveyed
with wonderful rapidity and skill along narrow planks to the
shaft, and is there laden into the large buckets of the machine,
by which it is drawn up to the surface.
    The rock here is clay porphyry passing almost into grunstein.
 It is much harder than at Windschacht ; and is often firm enough
to become a building stone.        The timber used in this mine is
consequently    less, and the  shafts   by which we ascended and de
scended    were  only secured  by  a  kind   of strong trellis-work.    In
some parts of the great vein the feldspar was so predominant as
 to render it almost white, interspersed with distinct crystals of
 hornblende ; but the vein soon passed again so completely into
the nature of the surrounding rock, that it was difficult to say
 where the one ended or the other began.             At the depth of the
 Emperor    Francis's level, which   is here  above  seventy fathoms, my
 conductor pointed out to me a singular appearance.             The mas
 sive porphyry is interspersed with nodules       of the same substance,
 but much more compact than the surrounding rock, and some
 times presenting, though indistinctly, the appearance of crystal
 lized facets.    The size of these balls, as well as their frequency,
 varies in different parts from two inches to one-tenth of an inch
 in diameter, in the space of a few fathoms to which this siagu-
     Vol. 42. No. 243. July 1818.                   B                larity

IS    Account of   the   Gold and Silver Wmes of Hungary.
larity is confined.  This occurs in a place where several threads
of ore which intersect the gangue unite.
   The direction of the great vein is from E. to W., or, as the
miners say, " they work it toward the sixth hour," and is ele
vated at about an angle of 80".       It is at its greatest width at
the depth of seventy fathoms, being therq nearly twelve fathoms,
and continues so as far as it has been worked downward, which
is about forty fathoms lower.   As it ascends towards the day, it
becomes narrower, a circumstance which I was informed is here
rather an exception than a general rule.
   This is the richest vein at present worked, and yields almost
one mark of silver from every centner of ore.        During the last
fortnight  the quantity   of ore  obtained had been 319 centners,
and this yielded by assay 2S2 marks of fine silver.         The pre
ceding fortnight it produced 239 centners of ore, which gave
262 marks-of fine silver.      At a former period, this mine in the
course of twenty-eight years produced half a million of marks of
pure silver.
    In working such large veins it is found necessary to begin
from below and go upwards, and to fill up as much as possible
as the miners ascend ; for, were they to begin from above, there
would be no place in which to deposit the unproductive matter ;
a prodigious mass of superincumbent rock would keep the work
men in perpetual danger, and by falling down might put a stop
to all proceedings in the mine.
    Having now observed the mode in which the ore is collected,
and raised to the surface, and the means by which they free the
mine of water, I will follow the ore to the operations which it
afterwards undergoes.
    When brought from the mine it is carried to a building, where
men, women and children, sitting at tables, select the rich ore
from the poor, break it into pieces about the size of hazel nuts,
and sort it, according to its worth, into different parcels.     The
value of these heaps is then ascertained by an assay, and the
pay of the workmen regulated by the product.       This is estimated
on the number of half ounces or loths of silver contained in the
centner or hundred and ten pounds of ore, and this varies from            •
 the minutest tiuantity to one hundred loths or more.            If it
contains   above  two   loths, it goes immediately  to  the  smelting
works ; but if it he poorer, it is previously submitted to the
pochwerk or stampers, where it is pounded and washed, and the
most valuable articles concentrated.
    The process at the pochwerk is nearly as follows : — The ores
are thrown by small quantities into a long trough, through which
->xgentle stream of water   is constantly running.  A  row of stamp
                                                                  er 3,

        Account   of the Gold   and Silver Mines    of Hungary.     19
 fers, perhaps twenty- four in number, alternately raised by cogs,
 placed spirally round a cylinder which moves behind them, fall
 perpendicularly,    and in constant succession, upon the ore so
 placed in the trough. The water passing through the trough car
 ries with it the particles separated by the operation of the stamp
 ers on the ore, and, being conducted through a number of small
 winding channels, has time to deposit them before it runs fmally
 away; the smallest being suspended till they reach the extremity
of the canals, whilst the larger are deposited sooner.     The whole'
is then easily separated, according to its fmeness and weight, and
is taken to a set of inclined planes, each about ten feet long by
 four broad, having boards set edgeways at their sides. Above
each is a trough in which the ore is put, and into which a gentle
stream of water is made to fall, and which passing on carries with
it the pounded -ore, and running softly down the inclined plane,
over the whole surface of which it is spread, deposits the parti
cles equally ; but, being nearly uniform in size, those which are
left nearest the top are the richest.       During the whole time a
man stands by, and with an instrument of wood, like a rake
without teeth, gently moves the surface of the last deposited
matter, that it may thus again be exposed to the action of the
water, and any of the lighter particles may still make their
escape.     When the quantity collected on these inclined planes
covers the whole about eight inches deep, it is divided into three
parts ; that which is nearest the top being the richest, that at
the bottom the poorest.           The whole is then removed with
shovels into three separate heaps, and each undergoes the same
process three times.      The different portions are now again sub
mitted to the assay: the richest are sometimes found to con
tain six or eight loths the centner ; and if any is so poor as not
to contain two, it is carried back to be mixed with the ore un
der the stampers, but the richer parcels go to the smelting-
house.
    Ores which are so disguised by clay as to prevent the sorters
from judging of their value, are previous to their undergoing the
before-mentioned      processes thrown into troughs having grate -
ings in their bottom of different degrees of fmeness.       They are
kept   in constant  motion   by women,    who  use wooden shovels for
the purpose, whilst a stream of water running over the ore washes
the smaller pieces, together with the dirt, through the first
grating into the next ; and so on through several troughs, by
which the whole become separated according to size, the water
fmally carrying off all the earth and finer particles.    But this is
not suffered to run waste.       It is conducted through a long suc
cession of canals, where it forms its deposits as in the pochwerk.
The larger pieces are then returned to the sorters, and classed
                                B 2                              with

20     Account of the Gold and Silver Mines             of Hungary.
with the other ores.          But the smaller pieces     are separated     by
putting them in sieves, which are repeatedly plunged into water.
The water penetrates from below; and as the displaced fragments
of ore again subside, the heaviest and generally the richest fall
to the bottom.         This being several times repeated, the sorters
are enabled to make a tolerably accurate division, by removing
with a shovel the upper half, that which remains being retained
as valuable.
     The greater part of the ores at Schemnitz contain a large
proportion of lead, some copper, with sulphur, arsenic, and other
minerals, and a small proportion only of silver.                     These are
smelted in the furnaces, which are erected upon                  the  spot; but
those which contain a large proportion of silver are taken to the
silver furnaces at Kremnitz.
     The works which I visited near Schemnitz are denominated
lead furnaces, although their object is not to obtain the lead, ex
cept in combination with the silver and gold, and as a means of
procuring these precious metals.
     The ores, having by the operations of the pochwerk been se
 parated from a large part of their earthy impurities, are roasted,
 in order to drive off the arsenic, sulphur, and other volatile mat
 ters.     This is done either in open furnaces, in which it is piled
 in   alternate   layers with wood, or in reverberatory furnaces, in
 which only a moderate degree of heat is kept up. This roasted
 ore is,  then removed to         blast furnace, the bellows of which are
                                  is a
 worked    by  water.        It   here mixed in layers with charcoal and
 various slags and scoria of former processes, all of which con
 tain more or less lead, and contribute to the easy and perfect fu
 sion of the ores.         The heat in the furnace having       by     the con
 stant working of the bellows been greatly raised; at the end of a
 given period,    if   the process        found to be perfected, an opening
                                         is
is    made  in   the lowest part or eye of the furnace,        by     piercing a
  stopper made of clay and charcoal powder, with which the aper
  ture had been closed when the furnace was charged.                   Through
  this opening,     the  liquefied   metal,   which  had  collected in   the bot
  tom of the furnace, runs         into   a circular cavify,  or  bed formed ot
  charcoal and clay. This fluid metal consists of the lead, to which
  the silver and the gold,           any, have a strong attraction, and are
                                    if
  intimately united      ;   and of copper and any other metallic sub
  stance, such as iron, that may have been combined with the ores,
   and have not been oxidated in the furnace.                As the lead con
   taining the    silver    remains    fluid   at a  much   lower   temperature
   than copper   ;    the latter separates with the other impurities, and
   quickly forms porous crust, or slag, upon the surface, which
                     a                                                       is
   removed   by    tongs as soon as       it acquires the thickness of half an
   inch. This     is   repeated till these crusts cease to collect, when

        Account  of the Gold and Silver Mines    of Hungary.       21
the lead holding the silver and gold remains in the bed nearly
free from any alloy of copper.    What little still remains is after
wards separated, by submitting the metallic mass to a heat suffi
cient to melt the lead, but leave the copper.        The ingots are
then removed to the silver furnances, of which there are three ;
one at Schemnitz, one at Sehernovitz, and one at Neusohl ; each
ingot having been previously most accurately assayed.         This is
likewise done in respect to each parcel of the rich ores which are
sent raw to either of these silver works.
    The slags which have been removed from the surface of the
lead in these processes are often very rich in copper, some con
taining as much as 100 loths in a centner.         They are all re
 moved to the copper works at Altgebirg near Neusohl, to be re
 fmed.
    These being the whole of the operations which are conducted
 at Schemnitz, neither pure silver nor gold ever makes its ap
pearance there, except in the small quantities produced in the
laboratory from the assays.
    The footing upon which the mining school or college of
Schemnitz is conducted is very liberal.      It is a Royal founda
 tion ; and every one who has first obtained permission from the
Board of Mines at Vienna, which I believe is never refused, may
have the full benefit of all the lectures, and all the practical
knowledge which these extensive mines are calculated to afford.
The complete course of study occupies three years ; and those
who wish to obtain certificates, such as are required to entitle
them to seek for employment as officers of the mines, must go
through regular and severe examinations.           The lectures are
on chemistry, mineralogy, mathematics, mechanics, and other
branches of natural philosophy — drawing of plans, maps, and
machinery, &c. ; also on botany, and the knowledge connected
with the cultivation and preservation of forests, and the conver
sion and application of timber — a science which the Germans
 call forstwissenschafl, and which is of great importance in these
countries, which depend upon their forests for fuel ; and more
especially in mining districts, where so much valuable timber is
necessarily consumed in the construction of machines and mine-
 shafts, and in the support and preservation of galleries and com
 munications under ground.     The students have, besides, the free
 use of the laboratory, and constant access to every thing which
is going on in the mines, and in the various works connepted with
 them, and with the preparation and smelting of the ores. They
haye likewise permission to form collections of minerals to any
 extent for their own use ; but they are prohibited, under the pain
pf e,xpulsion3 from extracting the metals and applying the pro-
                                  B3                             duce

 22      Account   of  the Gold and Silver Mines of Hungary.
 duce to profit.     The students generally form themselves into as
sociations of two or three, for the purpose of carrving on their
 chemical and metallurgies processes in the laboratory with greater
 care and advantage ; and I was much pleased when Professor
 D'Horing one day pointed out to me various repositories ap
propriated to each, for placing away the apparatus, and every
 article necessary for conducting these experiments and assays,
 the whole of which are provided for them by the public fund.
    The number of students at this college varies a good deal, and
 at present, owing to the general and long continued disorder in
 public affairs, is at alow ebb — it seldom, however, falls short of
from 200 to 300. Many go regularly through the whole course,
 but others attend only the lectures which are connected with
 their particular pursuits.
    Kremnilz. — Kremnitz is situated, likeSchemnitz, in the midst
 of mountains.      It consists within the walls of thirty-five houses,
 one of which is the mint.        They are arranged round an open
space    where   the market is held.      There are some streets and
many detached houses without the walls, and at the distance of
about a quarter of a mile in the valley are situated the silver
furnaces.
    It will be remembered that the silver at Schemnitz was left,
some in the state of rich ore, and some, after it had undergone
the process by which it was concentrated in the metal which
had issued from the lead furnaces.          The greater part is sent
here, but some to Neusohl and Schemovitz, to be resmelted
with the ores of this neighbourhood, which contain a much
larger proportion of gold, and the metals are here finally sepa
rated and refined.
    Each parcel of ore, and every ingot of metal, before it is deli
vered to the furnaces, is again assayed by the proper officer in
the following manner:
    From each parcel of ore a certain number of ounces are taken
in such a way as will give an average sample of the whole. This
is heated to drive off all the moisture, and then reduced in an
iron mortar to a fme powder; a known quantity of this is put
into a small crucible, and to it is added about twice its weight
of pure lead in grainsof the sizc> of small shot, and known to
contain no silver.       If however it lie very refractory, a mixture
of one part borax and two of glass of lead, or the vitreous slag
of former assays, is added to facilitate the fusion. The crucibles
thus charged are so arranged in the furnace, that no mistake
can arise respecting the parcel to which each assay belongs.
A strong heat is then raised in the furnace, which is continued
until the fusion is complete. They are then taken out, and when

         Account of   the Gold and Silver Mines of Hungary.           23
cold, by a few blows on an anvil the vitreous matter or slag
which surrounds the whole contents of the crucible is broken
off, and a button of lead retaining the silver is found. This but
ton is placed in a small vessel or cupel made of bone ashes, and
again submitted under a muffle to a considerable heat, by which
the whole is melted, and the lead, being considerably oxidated,
is absorbed by the cupel, a little shining pearl of silver alone re
maining, from the weight of which the whole of this precious
metal contained in the parcel of ore is calculated.         By a similar
 process    the  richness in silver of  the   Ingots is likewise  ascer
tained.
      The silver in both cases contains gold, the quantity of which
 is still to be determined.     This is effected by placing it in small
 flasks or retorts of glass, and pouring upon it twice its weight of
 nitric acid ; which being exposed in a sand-bath to a gentle heat,
 the silver is completely dissolved, and the gold falls down in
 powder.      This precipitate is carefully washed, and put into a
 small conical crucible fitted with a cover ; a gentle heat is ap
  plied, and the pure gold remains in a spongy mass at the bottom.
  The solution is then evaporated to collect the silver.            This
  mode of assay differs but little from the processes used in re
  spect to the ores and metal in the gross.
      The first part of the operations used on the ores is similar to
  that at Schemnitz.      When the fusion is complete, and the metal
  is let out of the furnace into the circular bed prepared for it in
  the ground, ingots of lead rich in silver are continually added as
  long as they will melt and unite, the crusts of slag being re
  moved as they form on the surface.        In this way a mass of metal
  is obtained holding thirty, forty, or even fifty loths of silver in
   the centner, which is then laded into flat moulds to cool.      These
  are assayed previously to their being placed in a reverberatory
   furnace, fitted with a large iron cover suspended by chains by
  which it is elevated and lowered at the will of the operator ; and
   a brisk flame being made to play over the metal, the lead is
  quickly oxidated on its surface: this is removed, and a new sur
  face being exposed to the action of the flame and air, the same
  is repeated until nothing remains on the sand forming the bot
   tom of the surface, except the silver holding gold, which is taken
   out by ladles and poured into ingot moulds.             This precious
   alloy is thence removed to the laboratory adjoining the mint, to
   undergo the operation of w parting," or the separation of the
   gold from the silver.
      The ingots are here melted down, and the metal whilst fluid
   pourecf into water, by which it is granulated, or divided into al
   most leaf-like pieces, which are in appearance exceedingly beau
   tiful. These being dried are put into large glass retorts ex-
       i                          B 4                            tremely

24     Account    of the Gold  and Silver Mines     of Hungary.
 tremely well luted.     Nine marks are placed in each vessel, with
 about twice that weight or somewhat less of nitric acid of the
specific gravity of 1-20, previously purified of any combined sul
phuric or muriatic acid it might contain, by dissolving in it a
portion of perfectly pure silver.      These retorts are placed in a
sand-bath, with receivers properly fitted to collect any acid fumes
which may pass over. The silver is in this process taken up by the
nitric acid, forming a clear solution, which being decanted off,
leaves as a residuum the gold, in the state of protoxide, having
the appearance of a brown powder.           This, when collected in a
crucible and exposed to a low heat, assumes its yellow colour,
but without metallic lustre; the particles adhering but slightly
together.    It being however perfectly pure, nothing further is
necessary  than    to fuse and cast it into ingots.
    The transparent solution of silver in the nitric acid is now
poured into retorts standing in the sand-bath, and, being gently
heated, is distilled over into receivers in a state fit to be employed,
in fresh solutions, leaving the silver in a sponge-like metallic
form chiefly at the bottom, but likewise adhering in a thin coat
to the sides of the retort, without lustre', but beautifully white.
Fresh quantities of the solution are then poured into the retorts,
and the distillations repeated until they are nearly half full of
dry nitrate of silver: a considerably greater heat is then applied,
in order to decompose the metallic salt. The retorts are then
broken, and their contents with the adhering pieces of glass and
a portion of black flux run down in black-lead crucibles, and the
silver cast into ingots.
    The laboratory is of great extent. Five or six banks of sand,
for so they may well be called from their size, extend across the
chamber, beneath which the fire is conducted in flues; and upon
the whole extent, processes of solution and evaporation are
constantly going on.       Here are also all the furnaces and appa
ratus necessary for performing the several operations before
mentioned.
    Both gold and silver in their greatest degree of purity are
found too soft for circulation in coin : before, therefore, they are
made into money, the standard is reduced by the addition of
alloy either of silver or copper, to give the necessary degree of
hardness and durability.      Jn the inferior silver coins much more
is added to increase their weight and dimensions, as well as for
other sufficient and perhaps not less obvious reasons.           In the
Austrian pieces of twenty kreutzers there are only nine loths,
thirteen grains of silver, to five loths six grains of copper.        In
the gold coins,     however, the  proportion   of  alloy is exceedingly
small.    A ducat weighing 53'85 grains contains only 0•56
grain of oopper, with 53-29 of gold j and according to the an
                                                                   cient

      Account   of the Gold    and Silver Mines   of Hungary.        25
 eient standard, even not more than one-third of this small quan
tity; and yet this     has such a perceptible effect, that it is neces
 sary to procure for this alloy tjie purest and most malleable cop
per which can be obtained from other mines, the copper of
 Kremnitz not being found sufficiently so for this purpose. Copper,
as an alloy to gold, makes the coin much harder and less liable
to wear than silver, which is the alloy used in the ducats of Hol
 land.
    The silver having been melted In combination with copper, as
 its alloy, is cast, in moulds of iron the sides of which are kept
together by a clamp and screw, and which are placed erect in
iron sockets, into bars nearly two feet long, two inches thick,
and four inches wide.         These bars are drawn out between iron
rollers, after frequent repetitions of heating in a furnace, and roll
ing to a given thickness, by which they are greatly extended in
length, but little increased in width. After each time of passing
the roller, the silver is plunged into cold water.
    A screw press is then used to stamp out the blanks of the re
quired size, which having been previously dipped in a dilute
acid, to restore their colour, are separatelv weighed.
    The impress on the edge is next made by a small hand in
strument placed horizontally, consisting of a circular plate move
able by a handle on its centre, within an external fixed ring,
leaving a space between the two equal to the diameter of the
blank to be milled.       On a portion of this extensive circle cor
responding in measure to the circumference of the piece, the
device intended to be impressed is cut or fixed.          The blank is
placed    in the intervening space;    and by moving   the plate, which
presses tightly upon   it,   the piece
                                    is    made to describe a complete
revolution round its own axis, and, moving in close contact with
the outer ring, receives the impression on its edge.
    In order to complete the coin, nothing now remains but to
stamp these pieces with their proper dies.           This  is  done  by
means of powerful    fly   screw- presses, such as are generally made
use of for the purpose     ;   and are so constantly employed   in  va
rious processes of our hardware and plating manufactures at Bir
mingham and Sheffield, that they need not be described.
    The method used in the gold coinage      is   precisely the same.
The whole both gold and silver coins are again separately
weighed, packed, and sent to the Treasury at Vienna for circu
lation but certainly not at this time for general use, as none
     ;
were to be met with in common currency.
    For inspecting and counting the copper coin's they have ready
                                                                a
expedient.     Trays, having their bottoms indented with one or two
hundred hollows, are filled with money; and being shaken, each
hollow receives  a     piece.    The rest are swept out the known
                                                       :
                                                                number

26             Account   of the Process of Amalgamation
number being at one view inspected, the tray is overturned into
the proper receptacle, and is instantly ready to receive a fresh
supply.
   With respect to the quantities of gold and silver which have
been obtained by the Government from the mines of this district,
and coined at Kremnitz, Dclius in his work upon Mining has
calculated that from the year 1672 to 16S0, the single royal
mine of Piberstollen at Schemnitz gave 427,600 marks of silver,
and 2,657 marks of gold.           In 1690 the gold from Schemnitz
amounted to a little more than 1872 marks coined into 132,425
ducats. In 1779, 2429 marks of gold, and 92,267 of silver were
brought to the mint from the whole district. And by a state
ment published at Vienna in the Filter landische Blatter of 1808,
it appears that the whole produce of the mines of Upper Hungary,
between the years 1797 and 1806, amounted to
             16,821 marks      4 loth 29 dr. 27 gr. of gold,
            658,519            0        52       19     of silver,
            135,443 centner 83 perfunds of lead.
The whole value inthe currency of the country beingl6,72S,36S fl.
 22 kr. But I am not quite certain what mines are included in
this estimate.
JV. Account of the        Process   of Amalgamation used at Hals-
    br'uck near Freyberg     in Saxony, for the Extraction of Gold
    and Silver from other Ores.        By Richard Bright, M.D.*
The        operation of amalgamation was first used in the mines of
South America, where it was introduced between the years 1560
and 1570.        There, however, the process was at first conducted
in a very imperfect manner, and was attended with a great loss of
mercury as well as silver.       In that country it underwent succes
sive modifications and improvements, and it was there first dis
covered, that a very effectual method of conducting it was by
boiling the mercury and the ore together in water.
   Although proposals had been more than once made to the
Court of Austria, it was not till 1784 that the method of ex
tracting silver by the aid of mercury was adopted in Europe, at
which time Baron Born was authorized to make extensive trial
of its efficacy in the mines of Hungary. The process as esta
blished by him at Glashutte near Schemnitz, and afterwards in
troduced into the other mines of Hungary, Transylvania,               and
Bohemia,      was  in substance  very nearly that which    is employed at
Freyberg, except that for some time the formation of the amal
gam took place under the influence of heat, the mixture being
               * From the  same work as the preceding article.
    ..   i                                                            put

          for extracting    Gold and Silver from other Ores.         27
put into copper boilers in the form of an inserted cone, rounded
at the bottom and open at the top, in whitfh an instrument was
made constantly to revolve ; thus keeping the whole in agitation,
while a very moderate heat was applied under the boilers ; and
this process having been continued for from ten to twenty hours
according to the nature of the ore, the whole of the silver was
found to be disengaged from the ore and taken tip by the mer
 cury.     Baron Born made many attempts to conduct this part of
 the process without the assistance of firej but jt was Gellert
 who first perfectly succeeded, and of his success the very com
 plete machinery of Freyberg was the result.          From many com
 parative calculations and experiments which have been made, it
 has appeared that the saving in the consumption of wood, and in
 the lead wasted by the common processes of smelting and re
  fining, is so great, that ores of silver and gold which are of a na
  ture fitted for this process can be worked at nearly half the ex
  pense bv amalgamation ; and it is satisfactory to be assured that
  the mercury, so far from producing the deleterious effects upon
  the health of the workmen which were at first dreaded, is in fact
  by no means so hurtful as the heat and fumes which are to be
  encountered in the usual operations of the smelting furnace. •
      The process now used at Harlsbriick is as follows : The ores,
  after having been sorted, stamped, and washed in a manner si
  milar to that which has been described, are brought in separate
   lots to the mills, where each lot is sampled with much care.
  These samples are divided ; — the one part is assayed by the
  assay-master of the mine from which the ore was brought; the
   other by the officers of the works, — a very necessary check to
  prevent errors, and more particularly in this case, as the amal
   gam works belong to Government, whilst many of the mines are
  worked by companies of individuals.
       The ores are then appropriated either for the operations of
   the furnace, or of amalgamation, according to their qualities ;
   those being chosen for the latter, which are the most free from
   an intermixture of lead and copper ; and preference is likewise
   given to ores which yield from three to four ounces of silver in
   the centner, it being found by experience that such are best
  -fitted for this process. The different parcels, the produce of which
   has been ascertained by assay, are therefore so fixed that the
   whole may average about this proportion.         To this ore is added
   one-tenth    of  its weight of muriate  of soda, finely sifted.  This
    mixture is then parcelled out, in heaps of three or four hundred
   weight each, upon the floor of a chamber over the reverbeiatorv
   furnaces in which it is to be roasted.     Here it is dried for some
   hours, and is then passed down a pipe which communicates with
                                                                      the
                                                                t

  28          Account of the Process of Amalgamation
  the furnace below, over the bottom of which it is spread by
  means   of an iron rabble or rake.     The fire, which is of wood
  and a mixture of coal and clay, is contained in a division of the
 furnace separate from that which receives the ore, with which
 it is connected only by a large aperture, through which the flame
  and heat pass into the vaulted compartment containing the ore,
  and out at the chimney erected over the other end of the fur
 nace.     By this means a high degree of heat is given to the ore
 without any contact with the fuel, and the sulphur and other
 volatile matters which arise from it are speedily carried off. The
 workman attending the furnace keeps the ore in a constant agi
 tation with his iron rake, to prevent its adhering together in
 hard lumps, especially when it becomes red hot, and, by changing
 the surface, more regularlyto expose the whole to thp operation
 of the flame and heat. This is continued, and the red heat
 maintained, for three or four hours, until there are no longer any
 signs of sulphur remaining in the ore. The whole is then with-r
 drawn from the furnace.     During this operation a decomposition
 of the muriate of soda has taken place, the acid forming new
 combinations with the earthy parts, and the oxides of the im
perfect metals, and the soda with the sulphur which had not
 been expelled by the heat; whereby the union of the silver is ren
 dered much less intimate with the substances from which it is
 to be separated.
    The calcined ore, as it is taken from the furnace, is put when
 cooled into boxes, which are raised by a crane worked by water
into an upper story, where it is sifted, and all the pieces which
have caked together are separated from the rest.           The cakes
 are broken, and being again mixed with a small portion of salt,
are once more roasted ; but the finer parts which have passed the
sieve are conveyed down by pipes mto the mills, where they are
ground to an almost impalpable powder.         These mills, of which
there are several, are all turned by water ; the mill-stones are of
granite.
    When thus prepared, the    ore is carried in barrows to a cham
ber, where twenty chests present themselves arranged in rows of
five each. These stand immediately over corresponding vessels
or barrels, in which in the room below the amalgamation is to
be effected; and which barrels are charged from the chests by-
means of moveable pipes.
    It is now that the important part of the process takes place.
The twenty barrels are arranged in four rows, each turning on
its separate axis by a motion communicated by a water-wheel to
two long shafts, each shaft passing between two rows of the
barrels and furnished with cog-wheels, working in others fixed
                                                                  on

      for   extracting Gold and Silver from other Ores*                  29
on the axis of each barrel, but from which either barrel may be
detached at pleasure, and its motion stopped without impeding
the rest.
    Each of these barrels is charged with ten hundred weight of
the pulverized ore, about three hundred weight of water, and a
small quantity of sheet-iron, which is added for the purpose of
decomposing any muriate of silver that may have been formed
during the process of roasting, and to prevent the subsequent
formation of any muriate of mercury.
    A gentle rotatory motion is communicated to the barrels for
about an hour, to mix their contents intimately.              Five hundred
 weight of quicksilver is then added to each, and the motion of
 the barrels accelerated to the rate of nearly twenty revolutions
 in a minute, and this is continued for sixteen hours.             When by
 assay it is found that the separation of the silver is complete, the
 whole having formed an amalgam with the mercury, and none
 being left in union with the earthy parts or metallic oxides, the
 barrels are entirely filled with water, and they are set in motion
 again for about an hour, but with much less velocity, that the
 amalgam may separate completely from the rest of the mass,
 and be allowed to subside.            The amalgam is then drawn off
 from the lowest side of the barrels, and conveyed along wooden
 channels to vessels prepared in another chamber to receive it.
  The remaining water is washed from the barrels into reservoirs.
     The amalgam and surplus mercury, which flow away together,
 are put into leathern bags, which being pressed, suffer the un-
  combined sulphur to pass through the pores, leaving the amal
 gam, containing about one-eighth of its weight of silver, in the
 form of a paste composed of silvery globules.
     The washings of the barrels, which are collected in four large
  reservoirs, are kept in a continued agitation, during which the
  mercury which remained entangled with the refuse subsides; and
  as this takes place, the upper strata of the water are successively
 removed till the mercury and amalgam, if any, alone remain.
 This generally occupies about eight hours.               This mercury and
  amalgam     is  of course  added   to  the rest, and  from  the liquor the
 sulphate   of   soda is afterwards    obtained.
      It remains uow to collect the silver which is thus concen
  trated in the amalgam, by driving off the mercury.                For this
  purpose   a   furnace   of mason-work      of  a peculiar  construction  is
  employed.       A  tripod  of iron  is placed  withinit,   which  standing
  in a vessel of water supports an upright bar of about three feet
 in height, at the upper part of which are arranged five iron sau
  cers holding portions of the amalgam.               The whole of this    is
  covered bvi       bell of cast iron which descends into the water.
                                                                         An

30         Observations on the Vhanges which take place
An annular iron plate or shelf is then applied round the bell exj
ternally at about half its height, and on this shelf a fire of turf
is kindled.     The door of the furnace is then closed, and the
flame plays round the upper part of the bell, till the whole of
that portion of it which surrounds the vessels or saucers contain
ing the amalgam becomes strongly heated. The distillation of
the mercury then takes place ; it rises in fumes, which falling
condense in the lower part of the bell and the vessel of water
beneath.     In about eight hours the whole of the mercury is se
parated, the furnace is suffered to cool, and the silver (containing
however some metallic impurities, particularly copper,) is found
forming beautiful spongy cakes in the iron saucers.           This is af
terwards melted and refmed in the furnaces adjoining to the
amalgam works, wllere much of the richer ores, and the produce
of that which containing larger proportions of other metals had
been reduced in the blast-furnaces, is likewise melted and re
fined.
    The operation of which I have now given a sketch, is un
doubtedly the most interesting object which Freyberg and its
neighbourhood afford.        The process of amalgamation, in itself
so curious, is there more extensively and better performed than
in any other part of Europe.
V. Observations      on   the various Changes which take place on
    treating Uric with Nitrous Acid, and         on a new Acid called
    *' Erythric"   thence    produced.     By Dr. Gasper Bhugna-
    TELLI*.
 M Y father (Professor      Lewis B.) being occupied in making ex
periments    on  the human urinary calculi, for a work which will
be published in the present year, I wished to employ mvself in
examining some of the substances which are most generally found
with such calculi.      In studying the chemical constitution of uric
acid, I was particularly led to observe some changes which it ex
perienced under certain circumstances.            Of those observations
I now    undertake  to  give  a  brief account,   although not without
that diffidence which juvenile inexperience in the chemical art
 should inspire.    Uric acid differs from the greater part of the-
other known acids, by having a chemical constitution much more
 complicated, the number of its component principles amounting
 to four, which is not the case in the others.       Hence it is natural
 to infer, that in whatever    manner   it may  be  decomposed, a great
         * From Brugnutclli's Journal, 1st and 2d bhnestrein 1818.
                                                                   variety

                   on treating Uric with Nitrous    Acid, &c.                31
Variety of products must          be obtained.      This inference is parti
cularly confirmed,        when   it is  exposed  to  the action of nitric or
nitrous acid ; and the phaenomena which accompany this action
are so singular, as to excite curiosity respecting the chemical al
terations which are its effects.
      Scheele, the celebrated discoverer of uric acid, first observed
in like manner the violent action of nitrous acid on this sub
stance, and the red colour which its solution leates on the skin,
or which it acquires in evaporating ; but by one drop of nitrous
acid it is instantly destroyed. He likewise observed that this
solution had always an acid taste, that it did not alter the me
tallic solutions, nor precipitate with muriate of barytes ; but, on
the other hand, it yielded in lime-water a white precipitate
which was soluble in nitrous and muriatic acids without efferves
 cence.
      Bergman observed, that when treated with potash in excess it
 did not become turbid, but by digestion acquired a reddish co
lour which readily tinged the skin, and the solution thus joined
to potash precipitated in a particular manner the metallic solu
tions*. He also considered as very remarkable the fine red co
 lour which he obtained by treating uric with nitrous acid, and
 examined the circumstances which accompanied the appearance
 of this colour, and its destruction effected by acids or caustic al
 kalif.     The same chemist and Scopoli afterwards observed that
 the reciprocal action of these acids produced a considerable
 quantity of oxalic acid     J ; a change which my father found to be
 greater and more rapid,         if,
                                  instead of nitrous acid, chlorine were
 used§.       These    observations    directed Fourcroy to determine
 what were really the changes produced on uric acid            by  chlorine,
 which there was every reason to -believe could not be verv dis
 similar from those effected           nitric acid.
                                       by              He found that un
 der water chlorine changed uric acid into ammonia and carbonic,
 oxalic and malic acids.          The first acid formed      is  the malic,
 which with the continued action of the chlorine changes into
 oxalic; and this increasing, both acids are resolved into carbonic
 and water     ||.  These are the changes which chemists have hi
 therto observed as taking place in uric acid when treated in this-
 manner.        To me, however,        appears that many others are pro
                                       it
  duced,   as  will be seen  by the  subsequent observations.       When     a
  little uric acid dissolved in nitrous acid       is  reduced to dryness,
 having   a   red colour, and exposed to the flame of         a  lamp in     a
   * Scheele, Mem. de                                                iv. Ob-
                                                  Bergman, Opusc.
                                  t.
                          Chym.   i.        f                        t.
ser. de Cal. Urin.          J   Crell, Ann. 178. See Brugnatelli's Memoir
on the Sediment of Urine, where the history of this discovery        related,
                                                                    is
p.  116.            Ann. de Chimie, xxxi. p, 133.
                     §                                  ||Fourcrov, Syst. des
Con. Chim.     x. p. 222.
              t.
                                                                         watch

32         Observations on the Changes which take place
 watch-glass, there is often seen in the centre a kind of spume
 formed of a brown or yellow colour.           This is more conspicuous
 if the experiment be performed on a larger scale. In such a case,
 having projected the nitrous on the uric acid, without diluting
 it, until the rapid decomposition has ceased, after some repose,
 a copious deposit of minute grains is formed*.             On evaporat
 ing  the   whole  with  a moderate heat, many suffocating white va
 pours are disengaged, which become still more numerous in the
              After a time, the whole mass acquires a yellowish co-
   our and becomes fluid, but coagulates immediately if removed
 S>rocess.
 from the fire. Continuing therefore the heat, the vapours finally
 cease to be suffocating, and the mass acquires a brown colour,
 while the edges usually become of a rose colour.              Urging the
 fire still further, white vapours continue to be disengaged ; mean
time the mass becomes a bulky charcoal, which with a crack is
 in an instant almost entirely destroyed.
     But, stopping here to consider the brown matter above men
 tioned, it is at first so hard that with difficulty can it be re
 moved from the vessel, although in a little time it attracts hu
 midity and softens.       Placed in water it dissolves, and communi
 cates a citrine yellow colour, leaving behind a blackish matter.
 The solution has a slight acid taste, and reddens the blue tinc
 ture of vegetables.       Caustic potash either immediately or after
 a slight concentration produces a flaky precipitate, and at the
 same time ammonia is sensibly disengaged.               Subcarbonate of
 potash produces     a similar  precipitate, which has a colour inclined
 to red. Treated with lime-water, the solution requires to be more
 concentrated to produce the precipitate, which assumes the form
 of very light flakes, which, on being reduced to dryness, become
yellow shining scales. Similar scales are obtained even by evapo
rating the original simple solution.         These salts have a sweetish
taste, and are much more soluble in warm than cold fluids; they
are deliquescent; but it appears that this property is greatly aug
mented by a particular yellowish matter which accompanies them,
and which greedily attracts the humidity of the air, deliquescing
itself, dissolving them with      it, and even rendering them more
soluble in water.
.   The above solution decomposes immediately when brought
into contact with   a    solution of lead or silver, and becomes turbid.
If be mixed with acetate of lead, the precipitate collected, and
    it
afterwards very well washed, and dried with a moderate heat, the
fait of lead may then be decomposed           by   dilute sulphuric acid.
  * Bergman, operating directly on the calculi of uric acid, observed the
constant formation of this deposit. It  isindeed immaterial to this experi
ment, whether pure uric acid is used, or that whichisfound well formed in
human calculi.
                                                                       In

                 on treating Uric with Nitrous                          Acid, &c.                   33
In effecting this decomposition, and taking care that in the fluid
no sulphuric acid remains, an acid of a yellowish colour and sour
astringent taste is obtained.   It reddens the tincture of turnsole,
and "when evaporated does not form crystals, but attracts a little
humidity.    The salt of lead from which this acid is extracted, is
very soluble in acetic and dilute nitric acid.   From many of the
above characters which this acid substance possesses, it may
be concluded to be malic acid.          It is not, however, easy to con
ceive how the malic acid can exist in the brown mass obtained
by the long action of nitrous on uric acid, while in it there was
no longer found any trace of oxalic acid ; and as this acid is
formed at the expense of the malic, which is altered by the ni
trous acid, so much greater is the force that can thus entirely
decompose the malic acid.         This reflection made me suspect that
the acid substance was not malic acid, but one of those acids
which have much affinity with                      it,
                                           among which the illustrious
Scheele distinguished the lactic acid*.           The characteristic dif
ference which he established between these two acids               the                   is         in
 solubility in alcohol of the calcareous salt of the former, and on
 the contrary the solubility of the calcareous salt of the latter.
 Hence, having observed that alcohol projected on the calcareous
 salt which I   obtained became turbid with          drop of oxalic acid,
                                                                    a
I  concluded       to be lactic acid, which
                     it                            endeavoured to ascer
                                                               I
 tain.    As the salts of potash and of lead are soluble in alcohol,
 so also   is the salt of potash which          obtained in an irregular
                                                              is
 form  by   the above method; and when the alcohol             evaporated          is
 by  a gentle heat,          found elegantly crystallized in long and
                             it     is
 slender needles.      The regular form likewise obtained when the
                                                         is
 pure acid      directly united with potash.
                is
    To the opinion that the acid obtained may be the lactic acid
 of Scheele, supported                   by
                                the solubility of its salts in alcohol,                              it
may be opposed, that this             perhaps owing to the presence
                                              is
 of the particular yellow matter above mentioned             and in fact,      ;
experiments prove that           at least augments
                                         it           the  effect.   But                             it
 may be answered, that the acid obtained              Scheele should notby
 be entirely devoid of this matter.         Berzelius found lactic acid
 united to particular matter in all the animal fluids, and
            a                                                           the               it   is
 opinion of this chemist that the acid obtained               Scheele was      by
very far from being pure.        When the yellow solution        extracted          is
from the original brown mass, there remains, as already noticed,
a   blackish matter.     This dissolves rapidly in potash, and the                                  al
 kali is  in great measure neutralized.
            a                                   The solution has deep                         a
 ruby colour,    if   itconcentrated and the potash in excess other
                          is is
                                                                                          ;
 wise the colour         deep yellow. This solution, provided that
                             a                                                                       it
                           * Crell, Ann.
                                         part ii.        1785,     p.   303.
Vol. 52. No. 243.                 July   1818.                           C                          has

54         Observations on the Changes which lake plane
has not too much alkali, has a sweetish taste, and tinges yellow
either blue or white paper.         Acetic acid produces in it a light
gelatinous precipitate, analogous in appearance to uric acid when
obtained by a similar process.         The substance precipitated has
a yellow colour more or less deep ; it does not readily crystallize
like uric acid, but presents here and there some shining points,
 and in drying it contracts and breaks in many pieces. It scarcely
alters the blue tincture of vegetables, and destroys the colour
previous to reddening it.        In cold water it is almost insoluble.
 Lime and ammonia dissolve it; but the addition of an acid to the
solution precipitates it again, although of a less deep colour.
 Hence these combinations, like the urats, are always dissolved in
an excess of base.       The combination with potash produces yel
low coagulations in the solutions of silver and lead.        The above-
mentioned substance which the acids precipitate burns with all
the characters of animal matter.           Nitric acid projected on it is
 decomposed,      and  when   the solution is evaporated no red colour
appears; but, on the contrary, a residuum of a yellowish colour is.
found.     Hence therefore results a substance in many characters
 analogous to uric acid, but which in many other essential qua
lities is distinct from it.     To this substance is also united that
particular yellow matter which we have seen accompanying the
supposed lactic acid.       In decomposing with acetic acid its com
bination with potash, the acetate of potash which passes the
filter is coloured yellow. By removing this salt, and evaporating
the residue, we obtain matter equal to that which was produced
by washing the original brown mass, if the acid combined with
the ammonia which it contains be removed.             This peculiar yel
low matter is soluble in water and in alcohol, but in a much
greater degree when hot than cold.           By evaporating it slowly it
maintains its colour, and is reduced to a mass having a gummy,
appearance, which seems disposed to crystallize and readily at
tracts humidity.       But if it is evaporated more rapidly, placing it
in a watch-glass over the flame of a lamp, and removed from
the heat when it has acquired much consistence, it appears
chiefly remote from the centre where it attains the colour and
appearance of wax.        If the heat be continued it burns, emitting
the smell of animal matter ; it swells extremely on being con
verted into charcoal, and fmally, with a slight crack the whole,
is destroyed    in an instant.    Nitric acid poured on it rapidly de
composes,    and   the  solution after some time yields a white gra
nular deposit; evaporated, it entirely changes into a white mass
at first sufficiently hard, but afterwards attracts humidity, when
it is very difficult to reduce it to charcoal by heat. It would
be difficult to determine the precise moment when each of the
above-mentioned substances begins to be formed ; and we can only
                                                                   form

                 on treating Uric with Nitrous Acid,           &c.          35
 form conjectures on the different appearances of colour, or the
 different odours, which are developed during the process.                 It
 would be equally difficult to ascertain, that with, the same ele
ments of these substances there may not be formed, and after
wards destroyed, other peculiar combinations.            The animal sub
stances are endowed with so much mobility, and suffer such no
table alterations in consequence of a small change in their parts,
although imperceptible to the senses, that we need not be sur
prised if in this case some of them should have escaped our at
tention. But without digressing from my subject, I can adduce
examples in which nature betrays herself, and reveals in the mean
 time that in the course of her operations important changes are
 effected.     These facts will not be reluctantly learned while thev
are accompanied by many interesting phenomena.
     It it well known that the solution of uric in dilute nitric acid,
 reduced to dryness and heated, has the property of communi
 cating to bodies a deep red colour.          This dye is therefore very
 soluble in water, and we may obtain from it a beautiful liquor
of a light ruby colour*. Being provided with an abundant quan
tity of this liquor, I evaporated it to obtain the colouring mat
ter in a solid state.     At a certain period of the process, the fire
becoming somewhat strong, the rosy colour in an instant disap
peared, and was succeeded by a yellowish hue.            This change has
occurred every time I repeated the experiment.                  It appears
that in this case even the water had a part, since we know by
other means this colouring matter may be obtained unaltered in
a solid state.     In seeking to discover some means of restoring
the faded colour, I found that potash, ammonia, and lime an
swered this purpose, only the colour reproduced was more rosy
and delicate.      The potash in the smallest quantity produced the
effect better than the others.         In like manner it at the same,
time yielded a rosy precipitate, which when left to repose at
tracted all the colouring matter, and the solution remained dis
coloured and alkaline.        If,when the precipitate         immediately
                                                              is
formed,     itbe collected on  a filter and dried,      retains
                                                         it        delicate
                                                                   a
rose colour, interspersed with very minute shining points.           Those
points,   which  have a  most agreeable    effect    the
                                                    in    light of the sun,
are   found  even beyond  the space   where   the colour  extends.    Lime
yields a   deeper colour, and when collected on the filter has the
appearance of velvet, and also presents brilliant points.
   *
   I   have almost always used the washings of the red spots left on the
skin by the above solution, and          often very deep.  The red residuum
                                    it
                                    is
which  is obtained by the heat of the fire makes the washings naturally more
easy to be changed, or to differ from themselves.    is
                                                    It  remarkable that such
red liquors, when slowly evaporated, yield prismatic crystals, and dissolving
anew in water, we again obtain  a   reddish liquor.
                                 C   2          ,                    Desirous

36         Changes on treating Uric with Nitrous Acid.
    Desirous of assigning some reason for the change of colour in
the red liquor in consequence of heat, many arguments induced
me to suspect that it must be owing to the influence of an acid.
In fact, the acids produce a similar effect; and if at first they are
unable to do       it,the assistance of heat renders them immediately
capable of effecting it.         Besides, the crystallized points which
we found detached from the colouring matter have all the ap
pearance of        salt.
                   a         It   certain that,
                                  is                all that remains on the
                                                    if
filter be burnt, the water which washes the carbonaceous resi
duum has alkaline characters.               have also observed that potash
                                            I
revives the colour of the first reddish liquor, but scarcely sepa
rates any of the coloured flakes: lime produces                 similar effect.
                                                                   a
I  have likewise seen that the coloured precipitates were insoluble
in water, but very soluble in very dilute sulphuric acid.                      is
                                                                                It
singular    that  this   solution     effected
                                       is       with     aspecies  of efferves
cence, which appears to me to be increased in proportion as the
brilliant points are more numerous.               Hitherto however         have
                                                                            I
obtained them           too small quantities, and too impure, to subject
                       in
them to that particular examination which they merit.                  At pre
sent, indeed,      it appears to me that the above phaenomena may-
receive    a satisfactory explanation, supposing that the action of
heat on the red liquor determines the formation of an acid, or
puts  it  in   state to alter the colour in the above-mentioned man
               a
ner  ;  and that this acid may be scattered in very minute mole
cules,     by uniting of which to           abase, they may likewise give
origin to those very small crystals. The solution, indeed, changed
by heat, has       a nauseous sweetish as well as acid taste, and does
not sensibly redden the blue tincture of vegetables: but this may
be attributed to the weakness of the supposed acid, in which the
extraneous residuary matter may be more than sufficient to neu
 tralize it. In obtaining the red colour                 by
                                                         the action of fire,         it
was,observed that, in finally drying,          yellow acid liquor destroyed
                                                a
 the red colour previously formed as soon as             touched it. Neither
                                                         it
 are the metallic solutions inactive on this red liquor. Some
 make the colour yellow without affording                 aprecipitate, as for
 instance, copper        ;others yield precipitates of the most beautiful'
 Colours, and separate all the colouring matter. Thus the solutions
 of silver, mercury and lead, yield sufficiently agreeable violet co
 lours of different intensity, which fix themselves tenaciously on
 the paper in which they are collected.                  It  to be hoped that
                                                              is
 painting may       derive  something     from  such   colours, as they serve
 to make sympathetic ink and other chemical sports.                      But         it
 must be observed that they are changed as much                        by
                                                                   acids as by
 alkalies.    In fact, the substance on which depends the faculty
 of dissolving uric in nitrous acid, and of becoming red with heat,
has all the characters of an acid.
                                                                            Pari

                     On the Erythric Acid,     &c.                    37
     Part II. — Having   intimated the discovery of a new acid in the
 preceding part of this memoir, thanks to the care with which my
father superintends my studies, I am now enabled to describe it
 more completely.      This acid, as already observed, originates
 from the ivetion of nitrous on uric acid, and is distinguished by
 the singular property of reddening when exposed to heat ; for
 this reason I propose to call it erythric,irom kgvigctlvuv, to redden.
 I now proceed to describe the properties of this new substance,
Jbut must observe, and regret, ray imperfect Kuccess, as it is a com
 pound which often changes and readily becomes of a ,quite dif
 ferent nature ; and hence my disappointment in sometimes not
 being able to give an exact account of all the phaenomena, and
sometimes being obliged to abandon certain subjects without any
 research, to avoid entering into a too extensive and difficult field.
 Nevertheless, I hope that my observations will be of some utility
 to those who may subsequentlv examine this complicated subject
 under more favourable circumstances.
                Mode  of obtaining   the  Erythric Acid.
     1. I have already related Bergman's observations on the rapid
 decomposition and deposit obtained by pouring nitrous acid on
 uric acid or urinary calculi.     That deposit is the erythric acid,
 which I found disposed in regular figures; and to obtain it pure,
 the following is the easiest process to be adopted.      Unite in the
 manner before     mentioned   the  nitrous  and uric acids ; leave the
 mixture at rest until the numerous floating yellow flakes have
  settled at the bottom of the receiver ; then pour off the liquor,
  collect the solid part on blotting paper, and dry it a.s much as
  possible ; afterwards dissolve it in water, and evaporate it slowly
 in the air ; by this method most beautiful .crystals of pure ery
  thric acid may be obtained.      This liquor transmits nitrous va
  pours, and also contains erythric acid in solution.
     2. Chlorine, iodine, and oxalic acids with uric acid can give
  origin to this new acid. Put uric acid in a bottle full of chloric
  gas, it will instantly be decomposed, and a substance which
  Tinges the skin of a lively red colour will be produced.       Jn like
  manner, a mixture of uric acid with iodine, or with oxalic, acid
  exposed to the action of heat, a decomposition is seen to take
  place, and finally a bright rosy residuum is produced.           This
  appearance of colour indicates the formation of erythric acid.
                   Characters  of the Erythric Acifi,
     3. The crystals of erythric acid have a rhomboidal form, are
  colourless and perfectly transparent ; their taste is at first pun
  gent, and afterwards becomes sweetish ; exposed to the light of
 the sun they redden, and preserved in paper they impart to it
                                 C3                                many

 28                    On the Erylhric Acid,       &c.
  many reddish spots; exposed to heat they decrepitate, and also
  assume a red colour; left in contact with dry air, they effloresce,
  lose their transparency and become white.             When found in this
  s-tate they do not redden on exposure to the solar light ; and if
  deprived of their water of crystallization, and exposed to the fire,
  they become yellow, and burn without reddening.                Hence we
  may    observe,  that the  presence   of water  is  necessary in order to
  their becoming red.
      4. The crystals of erythric acid are very soluble in water and
  in alcohol, without either impairing the transparency or changing
  the colour of those fluids.       The watery solution has a sweetish
  taste, no smell ; but it appears that it acquires a smell in time,
 which may be the index of its being about to undergo some al
  teration.    It reddens the blue tincture of vegetables, and their
  colour may be restored by the alkalies.            Lime water becoming
  turbid discovers Ihe presence of the smallest quantity of erythric
 acid.
      5. The solution of erythric acid by spontaneous evaporation
  in the shade, crystallizes again without being altered: but if
 rapidly evaporated it becomes a solid red coloured mass, which
  is revived on dissolving in water, of which it colours a great
  quantity.    In like manner the erythric liquid tinges the skin
  and other bodies red, more promptly than usual with the common
 solution of uric in nitrous acid.
      6. To discover if in the act of changing any peculiar substance       ,
 was evolved, the erythric acid was cjistilled with a strong fire.
 It does not boil out at a high temperature. Towards the con
 clusion of the evaporation, it became yellowish, afterwards red ;
but no product could be found in the simple water which was
distilled.
     7. In the solution of erythric acid reddened at the fire, a small
 portion only of the acid suffered change. In fact, the smallest
 drop renders turbid a great quantity of lime-water ; and if by
 evaporation the solvent water is diminished, we see the erythric
 acid depositing itself.       It is not, however, the same when the
 red solution is obtained by washing the spots left by erythric acid
 on the skin, cloth, &c. ; in this case the erythric acid appears
 almost entirely altered, and lime-water scarcely discovers its
 existence, presenting after some time a thin net on its surface.
      8. The colouring matter which reddens the erythric acid may
 be dissipated by heat.        In fact, if the erythric acid be reddened
 in a watch-glass over the flame of a lamp, afterwards dissolved in
water and again exposed to the same heat, beautiful re^l vapours
are seen rising, particularly at night, and the fluid loses its co
lour. This fluid is found to be erythric acid, which may be again
reddened.       If the red liquor be rapidly heated in a retort, it loses

                       On the   Erytkric Acid, &c.                   39
 its colour, and furnishes a fluid of a faint rose colour, and of a
 sweetish taste, which does not render lime-water turbid.
    9. The red erythric acid in more or less time loses its colour,
and in its stead usually yields white flakes.       But if in obtaining
the redness the heat be stronger than necessary, the red erythric
acid changes colour much more easily and becomes yellow. This:
change, indeed, takes place instantaneously with the prolonged
action of the fire; a strong smell of bitter almonds is then
evolved, which is communicated to water in which the residuum
is dissolved.     This proves that carbon, azote, and hydrogen, as
was easy to be imagined, enter into the composition of erythric
 acid.
     10. The circumstances therefore of the formation of erythric
-acid not only induce the belief that it also contains oxygen, but
that. it contains it in an abundant quantity, so much and so rapid
is the decomposition of nitrous on uric acid required to produce it.
 Moreover, it appears from the circumstances already mentioned,
 that the erythric acid acquires the red colour in consequence of
a slight change effected in some one of its constituent parts, in
which likewise water necessarily concurs.         These considerations
 led me to try the action of the Galvanic pile on erythric acid,
 hoping by such means to throw some light on the unknown che
mical changes that accompany the formation of the red colour.
          Effect of the Galvanic Pile on Erythric Acid.
    11. The pile which I used consisted of sixty pair of metallic
plates with a superficies of two inches and a half square. At the
negative pole a tumbler filled with a solution of erythric acid was
placed, and another with distilled water at the positive pole.        A
platina   wire communicating       with  the respective poles was im
mersed   in the tumblers, between which passed a piece of amianth
moistened with distilled water. The electric current was scarcely
put in motion, when a phenomenon appeared which indicated
that this experiment should succeed in the highest degree.        Many
bubbles of gas arose from the positive pole where the water was,
and none, or scarcely one, and that with difficulty, issued from the
other pole with the erythric acid.        After about an hour the acid
began to become yellow, and with the usual gradation of colour
observed when the fire acted on it : finally, it acquired a deep red
colour.     After some time the disengagement of gas appeared
copious   even    at the negative pole, but never so much as it was
at the other.      Although the erythric acid was become of a deep
red colour, yet there existed a great quantity unaltered in the
solution,    but which, after twenty-four hours was considerably
diminished in volume.         A portion also of the erythric acid was
transported    to  the positive pole, as was indicated by" lime-water.
                                    C  4                            The

40,                      On the   Erythric Acid, &c,
platina wire at the positive pole became of a yellow colour, and
that at the negative was almost covered with a crust of red co
louring matter.
     12. The experiment was afterwards reversed, that is to say,
 a solution of erythric acid, reddened either by the pile or by heat,
 was placed at the positive pole, and pure water at the negative,
 arranged as before.           The development of gas appeared from
 both poles. After a longer time than that which it had employed
 to redden, the liquor began to diminish in colour, and finally
 became, as at first, colourless.             It was pleasing to see on the
 amianth a light rosy tint which terminated in a beautiful little
 red ring : it was insensibly moved towards the negative pole, and
 the tumbler of the positive pole was also marked by red rings or
 bands at the part towards the other pole and near the amianth.
 Changing the position of the tumblers, putting to the positive
 water, and to the negative acid without colour, the latter red
 dened and the colour vanished on the amianth.
     13. These experiments seem to prove that the change in the
 red colouring matter of the erythric acid proceeded from the
 loss of oxygen which the acid sustained.             Indeed at the negative
 pole,   where     it reddens,  is the  precise point where the developing
 hydrogen can subtract from it this principle ; and from the posi
 tive pole the colouring matter is carried in the state of alkali to
 the other pole.
     14. I have found another proof which confirms the opinion
 that the appearance of the red colour in erythric acid depends
 on the cause here assigned.              Immersing red-hot iron nails in
 this acid, the red colour is immediately seen to appear.               I also
 hoped to obtain a similar change with phosphorus. I put a small
 piece in erythric acid, and left it at the light of the sun ; in the
 fluid no notable colour appeared, and the phosphorus only ac
 quired a violet hue.           Neither was the action of fire fit in this
 case to make the fluid become red.
                        Erythrats of Lime and Barytes.
     15.    Erythric acid poured into lime-water, as before observed,
 makes      it very turbid ; with the addition however of fresh erythric
 acid it     is dissolved, but not with that of any other acid although
  weak,      not even the carbonic acid, which is capable of decom
  posing the erythrat of lime.            This salt is found in the form of
  light,   white    flakes, which   are  seen   suspended in the fluid, and
  even    rise to the surface       if any extraneous substance is found
  in it.
      16'. This erythrat of lime has scarcely remained any time in
  contact with the air, when it experiences a change.              It is found
  that at its expense a carbonat is formed, judging from the vivid
                                                                effervescence

                     On the Erythric Acid, &c.                        4 1
effervescence which takes place when dilute sulphuric acid is
poured on it.
     1 7- Dissolving the erythrat of lime in an excess of acid, a trans
parent, tasteless fluid is obtained.        The oxalic acid discovers
the lime, but to that carbonic acid must not be added ; the al
kaline carbonats however immediately render it turbid.             Alco
hol produces a similar effect, but it appears that it separates the
neutral erythrat.      The acidulous salt slowly evaporated yields
crystals, in which the acids produce no effervescence whatever.
The solution of these crystals does not become turbid with lime-
water, and it has lost all the characters of the original salt. It
being necessary to examine the changes which occur in erythric
acid when united to bases, we must leave for the present the in
vestigation of this phaenomenon.
     18. A drop of erythric acid produces a copious precipitate in
barytic water.      This erythrat presents phaenomena analogous to
those before observed in erythrats of lime.          The erythric acid
decomposes rapidly the sulphuret of barytes, and yields a violet
 colour.
                   Erythrats of Potash and of Soda.                       *
     19. Caustic potash immersed in the erythric liquid produces
 no precipitate, nor any remarkable change of colour ; but their
 combination has a very sweet taste. The erythrat of potash
 renders lime-water turbid, and precipitates some metallic solu
 tions, such as that of lead and silver, in white coagulated matter ;
 on the contrary, with others it forms soluble coloured compounds,
 among which are distinguished the products from the solutions
 of iron by their beautiful blue colours.
     20. The erythrat of potash changes its nature very easily. In
 fact, on examining it some time after it was formed,it was found
 that from being neutral, or even somewhat alkaline, it had be
 come acidulous, as was indicated by turnsole ; nor would it yield
 a blue colour with the salts of iron, unless some drops of potash
 were newly added.
      21. The same and perhaps still more rapid changes take
 place, if the neutral erythrat be exposed to the light of the sun.
  In this state it is generally seen to become yellowish, and after
 wards to redden. Removed from the solar light, and after a time,
  it loses the colour it had acquired ; but if it remains exposed to
  that light it fmally becomes a solid mass, sweet, of a livelv red,
  and possessing much tenacity; dissolved in water, it gives to the
 liquid its beautiful colour.      This red liquor does not so easily
  lose its  colour by  the action of the fire, as happens when it has
  no potash; but for this effect it is necessary to add much water.
      22. The action of a moderate fire accelerates the above effects,
  the red hue appearing and becoming still deeper.         Towards the
                                                              conclusion.

    42                  On  the  Erythric Acid, &c.
   conclusion of the evaporation, if the fire ceases to act, a very te
   nacious sweet mass is obtained ; but if the fire be continued, an
   abundant red spume is produced.           This spume dissolves rapidly
   in water, disengaging numerous bubbles, and communicating the
   usual red colour : in alcohol it is scarcely soluble.
       23. That the erythrat of potash is subject to an almost im
   mediate change, is confirmed even by another proof.             Putting
   potash   on the crystals of erythric  acid, they are dissolved; neutral
   ervthrats are produced in the state of a white powder, which if
   left in contact with the air spontaneously reddens. In water, with
   which however it has not much affinity, it furnishes a solution
   which yields a blue colour with salts of iron ; after some time it
   loses this property,and re-acquires it by means of the addition of
  fresh potash.     But that which evidently demonstrates the change
  which take place, is the fac*that, after the lapse of several hours,
  the deposit which was before in a great measure insoluble in wa
   ter, becomes entirely dissolved if a small quanity of water be kept
   over it.    This new solution requires the addition of potash to
  produce the blue colour with salts of iron.
      24. The same things are produced, if instead of caustic potash
  earbonat be used. The erythric acid has the power of develop
  ing carbonic acid, and hence originates an alkaline erythrat, which
  like the others is subject to equal changes. Analogous phaeno
  mena are obtained with earbonat of soda ; the erythrat of soda
"difFers from that of potash in having a pungent taste, whereas
  the erythrat of potash is sweet.
      25. From these it may be concluded, that erythric acid in
  contact with potash gives origin to a new acid endowed with a
  greater capacity of saturation, producing at the same time a pe
  culiar matter which occasionally manifests itself with a red co
  lour ; circumstances which lead to the suspicion that the new
  acid may be even more oxygenated than the erythric.               Let us
 see if the action of alcohol gives greater importance to this con
 jecture.
      26. The erythrat of potash       is so much the less soluble in al
 cohol the more it is alkaline.      Thus, if in alcohol which contains
 dissolved potash erythric acid be poured, an abundant precipitate
 appears, which is speedily dissolved by the addition of a little
"more erythric acid, and again reappears by adding fresh alcohol.
 This, therefore, does not alter the erythrat of potash in which
 the acid is in excess.        The alcohol precipitating the erythrat
 deposits beautiful arborizations, which are formed of uniform
 shining crystals.      These rapidly dissolve in water, and give it a
 sweetish taste.      The solution is highly alkaline, does not preci
 pitate lime-water, nor give a blue colour with solutions of iron ;
 }t acquires in no manner a red colour, and contains, indeed, an

                        On the         Erythric Acid, &c.                             43
acid very different from the erythric.       Alcohol keeps dissolved a
peculiar matter which is discovered by evaporation.          If the ac
tion of the heat be not too strong, it leaves a colourless mass
which is very tough; otherwiie it isreduced to a very white spume,
as we have teen occurring in the erythrat of potash, where the
alkali was in excess*.       This spume dissolves in water, evolving
many    bubbles,   and burns  with all the phaenomena which accom
pany   the  combustion    of animal substances.
   27.       If,
             instead, alcohol be poured on erythrat of potash ahead                    v
altered, in this case      also becomes turbid, notwithstanding its
                             it
acidity. The crystals which         produces are cubic, and dissolve
                                            it
in water.      The solution     sweet, neutral, and, like the others,
                                      is
presents no phaenomena which could induce the belief that ery
thric acid      present. In such cases, the alcohol with evaporation
                   is
at the fire becomes /ed,and       fmally converted into
                                           is              red spume.    a
   28. The erythrat of potash reddened                         by
                                                  heat becomes violet
with the addition of fresh potash                    f:
                                            thus the red erythric acid
takes the same colour by adding to          an excess of potash. This
                                                      it
combination left in the air loses its colour and crystallizes, giving
origin to salt similar to that which
                 a                           obtained     means of
                                                          is             by           al
cohol.     In like manner,      an alkaline solution of an alkalinule
                                      if
erythrat of potash be left to evaporate, we obtain crystalline
groups of the same salt, that are involved in      glutinous matter.
                                                                a
                            Erythrat            of  Ammonia.
   29. We recognise in this erythrat, phaenomena analogous to
those which were observed in the preceding.              In adding am
monia to erythric acid, the union         accompaniedis        no sensibleby
phaenomenon.      This  salt  precipitates  with   lime,   yields     blue       a
with solution of iron, but after      time loses this propertv, whjch
                                                a
fresh ammonia restores       exposed to the sun
                                  :                   reddens.      it
   30. Ammonia poured on crystals of erythric acid dissolves                          it,
and    becomes yellow; afterwards
       it                                spontaneously grows turbid,
                                                     it
deposits yellow flakes, and remains of       rose colour, transmitting
                                                          a
at the same, time      peculiar disagreeable odour.
                        a                                  Those yellow
flakes dissolve in water, and give        a rosy colour
                                                     it       the solution
                                                                         ;
possesses slightly the  property  of  colouring   salts of  iron, and af
terwards loses it.
   * It    remarkable that the solid erythrat of potash, which often sponta
            is
neously reddens, yields      neutral solution, which does not redden on ex
                             a
posure to heat, but also produces this very white spume.
  -f The addition of ammonia to red erythrat of potash produced a very sur
prising phenomenon      :  developed a disagreeable odour, and immediately,
                            it
or after some time, yielded a black powder mixed with a substance which ex
posed to the light of the sun presented the beautiful green colour of the
emerald. This singular change sometimes did not succeed, for which can            I
assign no reason,
                                                                               Erythrat

44                     On   (he    Erythrie Acid, &c.
                              Erythrat of Iron.
     31. Erythrie acid combined with iron presents     so numerous
and    variable phaenomena,  that  to explain  them   would require
exclusively a long study.   Boiling erythrie acid over iron filings,
the metal dissolves, and the solution varies in colour according to
the concentration of the acid, and the action more or less strong
of the fire. Thus sometimes it is yellow, sometimes purple, and
sometimes of a most beautiful blue colour.      The latter however
it acquires in every   case, by means of adding an alkali, which
does  not produce any other precipitate.
   32. Similar combinations are obtained by boiling erythrie acid
over black oxide of iron.     It seems, however, that in such a case
we cannot immediately obtain the blue colour, but always if it
had the citron yellow.      To have that colour, the addition of an
alkali is also necessary: after some time, indeed, the blue dis
appears, and a colour similar to the first returns.
   33. Erythrat of iron concentrated by heat leaves green bands
and deposits yellow grains, which with slow evaporation may
also be crystallized in close prisms.       It is worthy of remark,
that in this erythrat, what the heat of the fire cannot dp, that of
the sun can ; that      is,
                         communicate to        the blue colour.
                                                        it                          It   is
however fugitive, the yellow colour returns, and          ready to again
                                                                      is
become blue       if
                 exposed   to alkali or the sun,  and  in  these changes
only black powder
       a                    seen to
                              is     be deposited.     Erythrat of iron
long exposed to the action of the sun             entirely in blackish
                                                             is
matter, from which water        tinged red.
                                   is
   34. Erythrie acid unites even cold with peroxide of iron this                :
solution has    yellow colour
                  a                  :be deep, alkali in
                                        if   it                small dose  a
produces    aturbid  coagulation,    whieh  on  the addition    of alkali
dissolves  and  becomes   blue.    This  coagulated   matter,       left a     if
long time quiet, spontaneously dissolves, and         yellowish matter
                                                                  a
reappears.
   35. The erythrats of iron exposed to the electric current at
the negative pole, cover the platina wire with a blue crust which
afterwards tinges the whole liquid.       This singular fact unites
these phaenomena     with those  which  we  have before observed                         in
the simple erythrie acid, and demonstrates that the various co
lourings to which this acid    subject, depend on
                                   is                common cause     a
modified     by
             the bodies with which         found in contact.
                                                  it   is
   36. These experiments, although very incomplete, seem to
me sufficient to show, that the blue colour which. often accom
panies the erythrats of iron      not a property of these, but most
                                        is
likely itbelongs  to   substance
                       a          generated in the act in which the
erythrie acid changes into that other acid of which we have be
fore spoken.    In the passage of one acid to auother originates,

                              6*a the   Erythric Acid, t$c.                       45
if I   msfy use the expression, a secretion which                   in company with
the ervthrats of iron often tinges blue.   It                   is with much reason
that trie alkalies make this colour appear, as they expressly pro
mote such a secretion, which in their union with erythric acid is
Accustomed to manifest itself by a rose colour.
   37. It is very probable that the alkalies with ervthrats of iron
may constitute triple salts ; this may also happen with other
metallic erythrats, as will presently appear. The triple prussiat
of potash and the decoction of galls discover iron, from the ery
thric solutions producing the customary colours*.
                                 Erythrat of Lead.
   38. I                  observed that the erythrat of potash de
               have already
composes    the  solution of lead, and forms a white precipitate.
A similar precipitate is likewise obtained from the same solution
decomposed by the erythrat of potash, in which the acid is said
to be altered. We shall now see if we can directly obtain these
two different species of erythrat of lead, which will confirm our
opinion on the mode with which erythric acid acts with bases.
   39. Pouring erythric acid on litharge, it is only necessary to
agitate them a little in order to produce their combination.
Thick clouds are seen in the liquid, and the erythrat of lead,
which is precipitated, is insoluble in acetic acid, and even in an
excess of erythric acid itself.    If this erythrat of lead be decom
posed by sulphat of iron, and potash be afterwards added to                        it,
the blue colour      obtained.
                        is
    40. But     the turbid fluid obtained
                 if                                       by
                                                 agitating erythric acid
with litharge be exposed to heat, after       slight ebullition the tur-
                                                      a
bidness disappears, and the solution assumes           red colour. Con
                                                                 a
tinuing to boil         it,
                       the turbidness returns, and deposits          white  a
 powder, which      the erythrat of lead in which the acid
                      is                                          altered.is
 The red liquor has a considerable quantity of           in solution, but
                                                                  it
 simple water dissolves much less        therefore the red liquor with
                                                  ;
 the addition of sulphat of iron and potash gives the blue colour,
 Which    not produced
          is                       by
                              the aqueous solution.
    41. From the second erythrat of lead may be extracted that
 acid which     generated at the expense of the erythric. This salt
                 is
 may  be decomposed with dilute sulphuric acid in such            manner  a
    * Whence        that muriatic or hydrochloric acid, boiled on the most pure
                   is
                 a it
 uric acid, gives blue colour with triple prussiat of potash to such degree
                                                                           it a
 as to create the belief that uric acid always contains iron      Can?   ever be
 that these two acids should produce the same blue substance which was
 observed in the erythrats of iron        shall only observe that Scheele's as
                                          ?   I
 sertion of muriatic acid bojling on uric acid without any alteration, does not
 seem very correct. If the experiment be made,         will be found that caustic
                                                           it
 potash will develop from uric acid     very distinct odour of ammonia, which
                                           a
 is   proof of its being in some degree altered.
      a

 4G                  On    the    Erythric Acid,     cs'ff.
 that no turbidness results from the above solution of lead, nor
 any other of this metal ; thus a colourless liquid of a pungent
acid taste will he obtained.     It reddens turnsole, but does not
render lime-water turbid : united with potash, having acquired a
sweet taste, it becomes insoluble in alcohol, and in a word pos
sesses all those characters which belong to erythrat of potash
spontaneously altered.
   42. Erythric acid also attacks metallic lead, making the for
mer boil on the latter': the acid after some time reddens, and it
is discovered by sulphuric acid, that it contains lead in solution.
                      Other metallic Erythrats.
     43. Erythric acid agitated with red oxide of mercury becomes
 turbid, and much more so by the action of fire. In time no
 colour appears in this, the salt is deposited in the progress of
 evaporation, and the liquid abandons it copiously in cooling ; of
the mercurial salt a very little remains in solution, and the pre
 cipitate is then entirely insoluble in distilled water.
    44. In a similar manner the erythric acid acts with oxide of sil
ver. Boiled also on the flowers of zinc,it dissolves the metal with
out changing colour, and becomes very turbid in cooling. Boiling
it on the contrary over metallic zinc, it assumes a yellow colour,
on uniting with it.      Potash at first produces a precipitate in this
solution ; but afterwards on adding         it,
                                              the whole dissolves, and
takes     beautiful
           a         rose  colour.
    45. Erythric acid boiled over copper acquires        yellow colour
                                                              a
without dissolving any.      It  unites however in the cold way with
the brown oxide.       The erythrat of copper has       green colour
                                                              a                 ;
it crystallizes elegantly  in  the form of the plumage of feathers,
gives  a  blue colour with ammonia, and, what           very singular,
                                                              is
likewise yields a   blue colour even with potash without producing
any precipitate.      Thus, potash forms with the solutions of me
tallic erythrats combinations still soluble, which renders        pre   it
sumable that   a  triple salt     formed.
                                 is
                            Conclusion.
   46. No one who considers the effects of nitrous on uric acid
can see them without surprise at the multitude of products which
are derived from them.      The greater part of these, however,                 is
the fruit more naturally peculiar to other bodies         on the other
                                                              ;
hand, erythric acid   is that which exclusively belongs to the de
composition of uric acid    ; and hence         the more valuable and
                                                is
eminent product.     Erythric   acid   is   asubstance so singular for
its physical changes,  rather than   for its  chemical properties, that
the lovers of the natural sciences will willingly make      the object
                                                                   it
of their study, In these observations only proposed to myself to
                                            I
recognise and account for the principal phamomena which -'ery
                                                                             thric

                  Account of an electrical Increaser.                    47
tluic acid presents; many others remain to be noticed which              my,
limited time did not permit. I have demonstrated that the red
dening of erythric acid depends on a loss of oxygen ; that in the
union of this acid with bases the same modified causes produce-
various colours, and that    contemporaneously the erythric acid is
transformed into another     peculiar acid.      Though these facts are
not perhaps in all parts       proved with the highest rigour, yet I
hope that they have such      a degree of probability, that chemists
will not refuse to admit     their truth, until new. researches shall
demonstrate their fallacy.
                              Appendix.
    In the first part of this memoir 1 have noticed some phaeno
mena which occurred in the red washings of the spots made by a
solution of uric in nitrous acid. Now that erythric acid is known,
it is much easier to account for these. I had then observed that
the washings exposed to a strong fire lost their colour. This, in
deed, ought to take place; heat having the power of dissipating
or destroying the red colouring matter (8-9). I have then found
that the alkalies and earths renew this colour. This may be easilv
explained, admitting that the very small quantity of erythric acid
 (7) which remains in those solutions is found disposed to be
come altered from the bases, and hence to produce new colour
ing matter (21). Finally, I have remarked that some metallic
solutions precipitate the colouring matter, rendering it of a vio
let colour, and others make it yellow without producing- a preci
pitate : for this I cannot adduce any plausible reason, and onlv
consider that the solutions of those metals, which with erythric
acid produce insoluble salts, are those which precipitate the co
louring matter.      Of the rest, I must frankly confess that the
above-mentioned      appearance and disappearance of colours are
not always constant : this, however, in such compound and vo
luble substances is not very surprsing.
VI. Account of an electrical Increaser for the unerring Mani
   festation of small Portions of the Electric Fluid.            Invented
    by  Henry    Upington,    Esq. of   Blair's     Hill,  Cork.    Com
    municated by Dr. Pearson.
            Letter from.  Mr.   Upington     to Dr. Pearson.
          T
                                      Blair's Hill, Cork, Feb. 24, 1817.
             he electrical increaser for the unerring manifestation
of exceedingly weak and small portions of the electric fluid, re
specting which I took the liberty of addressing vou on the 4th
instant, was constructed by myself in the year' IS10, for mv pri
vate experiments; and at the same time I communicated its
                                                                properties

48       Account  of an electrical Increaser for the unerring
properties to the late Earl Stanhope, in the course of a correspon
dence with which for many years he had honoured me.
    I am very much obliged by your polite offer of presenting Mr.
Tilloch with certain explanatory extracts from my letters to his
Lordship upon this subject ; which extracts I now inclose you, to
gether with a drawing of the increaser.
    Earl Stanhope, after reading my letters " with attention," was
pleased to consider the instrument of
                                          " great utility ;" and I shall
feel much gratification should it be so esteemed by you, sir, as
well as by every other scientific person for whose perusal this
paper is intended.
                        I have the honour to be, sir,
                             Your most obedient servant,
 George    Pearson,  Esq.                           Henry UriNGTO".
M.D. F.R.S., London.
         Extracts from Mr. U.'s Letters to Earl Stanhope.
                                     " Blair's Hill, Cork, Oct. 12, 1810.
    "   Your Lordship must no doubt be aware, that although our
most improved condensers [composed of two parallel perpendi
cular metallic plates of six inches diameter each, one insulated,
 the other not ; connected at pleasure with two similar plates of
 one inch and a half diameter each, attached to a gold-leaf elec
 trometer] will discover the existence of exceedingly weak and
 diffused electricity (atmospheric for instance), yet a minute por
 tion of excited fluid, such as that produced by the contact of
 two small pieces of metal, too weak to affect an electrometer,
 must require the assistance of an increaser to manifest its pre
sence,
     " Your Lordship must also be aware, that every instrument
 of this kind hitherto invented, including even Cavallo's among
 the number, is so very defective as scarcely to merit our con
 sideration ; while that species of multiplier called a doubler ia
 totallv useless, affording, as it does, the most equivocal results.
 The ingenious philosophical instrument-maker Mr. Cuthbertson
 was indeed so sensible of the inefficacy of every known doubler
 and multiplier, that he has not even hinted at either term in his
 recent publication called " Practical Electricity."           An instru
 ment, therefore,    to answer  this desirable   end  has  much    engaged
my attention ; and I have the pleasure to say that I have suc
 ceeded to my wish.
  - "
        To give your Lordship a comprehensive idea of its pro
 perties, I shall view it in a three-fold capacity, viz. as a source,
 a carrier, and a reservoir ; the stationary brass plate A of one
 inch and three quarters diameter, vertically erected on a varnished
 glass pedestal, serving as the Source ; a revolving insulated brass
     ~y                                                               plate

         Manifestation        of small Portions of the Electric Fhdd.        49
prate B of same diameter serving as the carrier; and the com
bined condensers c C (the former one inch and three quarters,
the latter .six inches in diameter) as the reservoir.
      " In using this instrument, it is obvious that the subject in
tended for examination must be brought in contact with the
source    Jl,  where the fluid thus communicated will undergo, if
the air be dry and the insulation good, but very little dissipation
for a minute and upwards.           Every time the carrier B passes by
 (that    is, directly opposite and within a suitable distance of) this
source, the projecting pin of            the carrier must touch the little
                                             B
lever of the perpendicular uninsulated brass rod D, and part                 it
instantaneously: thus, without depriving the source of any por
tion of its fluid, there         imparted to the carrier an apparently
                                   is
equal portion of the opposite electricity, which            deposits on the
                                                               it
combined reservoir            cC    lifting the projecting lever of the
                                        by
smaller plate c.
     I" have made repeated experiments with this instrument, and
found that         the reservoir
                    if              be full six inches diameter and pro
                                        C
perly adjusted, the combined reservoir cC will retain, provided
the communicated electricity be sufficiently weak, about 250
deposits    :  but here       should be observed, that
                              it                                the surface
                                                                    if
 of the body presented to the source for examination, be great,
 and its electricity weak, the carrier should be set directly oppo
 site the source, while the contact          made — the source and car
                                                      is   ;
 rier forming thus, in conjunction, a small condenser."
                                                     "December 13, 1810.
      " In reply to your Lordship's observations, can assure you
                                                               I
 thatI     have left nothing undone to bring this instrument to all
possible perfection.           found
                               I                 by
                                           repeated trials that about 250
 deposits were the absolute ne plus ultra.           When more were at
tempted, so as to attain the complete maximum of the reservoir,
the instrument appeared less perfect, the result being sometimes
equivocal       ;for do what we please, the electric substances which
must necessarily be used to insulate the plates, will on certain
occasions retain for a considerable time            sufficient residuum to
                                                           a
affect our electrometer          how, therefore, should the communi
                                   :
 cated electricity be distinguished from the inherent             Upon no
                                                                     P
 occasion, then, should the operator proceed without previously
Ascertaining what number of revolutions may, at that time, be
commanded.           Irecollect, one frosty day, to have produced spon
 taneous electricity (whether from the air, the earth, or pillars,           I
cannot teli,)            by
                       230 deposits, which consequently obliged me to
limit my revolutions to 200, during an experiment which                  was
                                                                         I
 then performing.
.'. ".  From all the foregoing facts         would appear, my Lord, that
                                                  it
a
   ' larger
             reservoir  than that of      would be quite unnecessary, the
                                             C
,     Vol; 52. No.243. July 1818.                          D          'com

SO       Account   of an Electrical    Increaser   for   the unerring
 communication of too great a number of deposits having no other
tendency than that of marring our operations.               The size of my
present one, as I have already said, is about six inches in diame
ter ; and even with this, the pillars must neither be over heated
nor rubbed : while, to fit the instrument immediatelv for a se
cond experiment, it will be necessary to touch every plate [all
the plates are unvarnished brass] for at least a dozen seconds,
with a similar metallic substance.
    " I must not close this letter without pointing out to your
Lordship a striking circumstance which for a long time escaped
my observation.        If the electricity communicated to the source
be tolerably intense, it will be almost if not wholly imperceptible:
it will overcome the resistance opposed by the plate of air, strike
the carrier, and pass into the earth.           A small piece of well ex
cited sealing-wax would, in most instances, overcome a plate of
air of one inch diameter and perhaps one-sixth of an inch in
thickness.     For the most delicate experiments, I should consider
the one-fortieth of an inch about the distance best suited.           This
will discover the electricity of a piece of glass when moderately
heated,— for heat, beyond denial, as this instrument will prove,
excites to action the electric fluid in bodies of almost every de
scription.     Cold, as every electrician knows, produces an oppo
site effect : Water frozen to 13° below 0 upon Fahrenheit, be
comes an     electric.
   "  May not     these   well- ascertained facts be more closely ap
plied than usual to the doctrine of thunder P and should we not
therefore look to the torrid and frigid zones for the grand solu
tion of the phaenomenon ?"
                        Explanation    of the Plate.
                                 COLOURS.
          Brass unvarnished    — represented by the yellow.
          Glass varnished          . .      . .      . .   black.
          Mahogany        . .      . .      . .      . .   brown.
                         Parts of the Instrument.
A. The source,      a brass plate (one     inch and three quarters dia
        meter) to which the body for examination is applied.
B. The revolving carrier, a brass plate (one inch and three quar
        ters diameter) which drawing the electric fluid from the
        source, without impoverishing that source, deposits the
        fluid so drawn upon the reservoir,
e C. The combined reservoir, likewise brass, the smaller plate c
        being one inch and three quarters diameter, the larger C
        six inches.      The accumulated fluid must be ultimately
        concentrated upon the smaller one, by a process similar to
        that observed in using the ordinary combined condensers.
                                                                D. A brass

      Manifestation      of small Portions of the Electric Fluid. 5\
D. A      brass pillar whose lever is depressed by the carrier B in
        its revolutions.
E. A multiplying wheel — very useful — to obviate, as much as
        possible, the effects of dissipation.
FF. The brass plates between which the carrier is mounted.
G. A countervailing weight, to render t<he movement of the
         carrier both light and equable.
H. A glass pillar ; by taking hold of whose handle I, the hind
        plate of the smaller reservoir c may, when necessary, be
         turned backward.      The elevated position of this pillar is
        most important ; the ascending humidity of the hand, so
        fatal to all delicate experiments, and to which our ordinary
        condensing electrometers are subject, being thus avoided.
        On packing up the instrument, this pillar should be un
        screwed, and taken from off the plate.
r. The handle of the glass pillar H just described.
 K. A brass rod suspended from the hind plate of the smaller
         reservoir c, to which it is screwed.     This rod is connected
         with, and disengaged from, the earth at pleasure, by means
         of the horizontal brass lever L, which turns from right to
         left upon a centre pin.
 L. The horizontal brass lever just mentioned.
 M. A gold-leaf electrometer, by which the accumulated fluid is
         examined. A rounded pin, which insures its temporary com
         munication with the larger reservoir C, is concealed from
         the eye. The chain, though bright, by which it was acci
         dentally connected with the smaller c at the time of draw
         ing, is much inferior to a polished wire when delicate ex
         periments are in question.
    At the back of this instrument, in the base, adjusting       screws
 are properly stationed to regulate the necessary distances be
 tween all the parallel plates ; while, for the security of the hind
plates of C and c, which may be turned backward by means of
 hinges attached to their respsctive bases, two suitable stops are
 introduced.
  . For the examination      of atmospheric and every other kind of
 diffused electricity   which  yields a sufficient quantity, the com
 bined reservoir c C may, when the operator pleases, be employed
 alone in the usual manner, like our ordinary condensers.
 N. A glass pillar supporting      a horizontal brass rod, which rod
          is situate at some distance behind all the plates.
 GOO. The last-mentioned horizontal brass rod, occasionally con
         nected by a chain or spiral brass wire with the back of
          the source A ; thus enabling the operator (the electrome
         ter being always in such case, withdrawn from the larger
                                    D 2                        reservoir

52         On the New Astronomical Circle at Greenwich.
        reservoir C*), to throw back, by contact, the whole con
         tents of the smaller c upon the source; converting the in
        strument, by this process, into a species of doubter. These
         latter parts of the instrument, N and OOO, must how-
         over be considered as mere objects of curiosity: alt
        doubling operations (no matter what number of revolutions
         are employed) being subject to equivocal results.
    * C may be said, in this instance, not to appertain to the instrument.
       VII.    On the New Astronomical Circle at Greenwich.
                              To  Mr. Zilhck.
 Sift, — vJn      referring to the article
                                               " Transit Circle," in Dr.
 Rees's new Cyclopaedia, I found the' following observations re
lative to the new astronomical circle which was, a few years ago,
fitted up by Mr. Troughton for the Royal Observatory at Green
wich.       " Mr. Pond has already published one volume of Obser
vations taken with this instrument, and has therein given a plan'
 and section of the circle, which is six feet two inches in diame
 ter. But, as Mr. Troughton intends to give a complete descrip
 tion thereof, himself, as a paper suitable for the Philosophical
 Transactions, which, to be published therein, must be an ori
 ginal communication, Mr. Pond was not at liberty to describe
 the drawing which he has given as a frontispiece to his first
 volume." And the writer goes on to state (what may be readily
 anticipated by any one), that as Mr. Pond had not thought pro
 per to describe the circle, he (the writer) of course was pre
 vented altogether from giving any description of it.
     Why Mr. Pond was not at liberty to give a description of an
 instrument which was in his own possession, and which in fact
 belonged to him, in his official capacity, does not appear; but
  I should conceive it was merely a matter of courtesy between
  him and Mr. Troughton. As several years however have now
  elapsed, and Mr. Troughton has not given the promised descrip
  tion, it is presumed that the same reserve is not now necessary.
  Indeed, I have been informed that Mr. Pond has recently fur
  nished the French with a complete drawing and description of
  this instrument ; and that this circumstance had great weight in
  the distribution of the medals with which the astronomer royal
  has been lately honoured.         This, if true, surely requires some
  explanation; and,      if not true, ought to be formally contradicted..
  The instruments at the Royal Observatory at Greenwich are
  furnished at the public expense ; and the Government have, with
  a munificence unequalled in former times, provided that esta
                                                                    blishment

                        On Chemical Philosophy.                       53
•fetish men  t with many costly instruments.         As the public money
 therefore has paid for those things, the public (I mean the Bri
 tish public, and not the people in France) have a right to know
 how that money has been expended: and I am persuaded that
 no scientific person will regret that a portion of the public ex
 penditure of the country has been appropriated in this way.             I
am sure however that every person will regret that any informa
 tion upon those subjects, for which he has so dearly paid, should
 bewithholden from his own .country and given to another. Mr.
 Poud must be aware that there are many scientific persons in
 England, who are desirous of seeing a more detailed account of
 the astronomical circle above mentioned, and who cannot gather
 *hat information from the partial account which he has at pre
 sent thought fit to publish: and it would have been more satis
 factory to them to see such a description first published in this
 country, than first to meet with it as an appendage to some of
 the future volumes of the Connaissance des Terns, or as a pro
 minent article in one of the foreign journals.
                       I am, sir, your obedient servant,
,*uly 14, 1818.                                           Aristarchus.
    yill.   On Chemical Philosophy. %            Mr. Matthew Allan,
                                  Lecturer.
                        [Continued from vol. li. p. 432.]
 _                                 Essay  VI.
 1 said     in the last Essay, that it was necessary to be still more
 particular, in order to prove that the differences in phenomena
 arise not from different powers, but from the substances and cir
 cumstances, and the quantity and intensity of one power acting
 upon or in them; — that it was necessary to prove, by particular
 detailed explanations, that there is but*' one grand agent in nature,
 which creates or destroys, unites or separates, preserves or diver
 sifies, the formo of matter."         And what can be more evident ?
 Every body,      in changing   its form  of existence, changes also its
 capacity     for heat or for this   power, or its capability to contain
 or retain a greater or less quantity.       The difference of capacity,
 between these different states of existence, is exactly equal to the
 quantity necessary to produce the change, and of course to sup
 port the change of existence it has itself produced. For instance :
 If one pound of water heated to 172° will only melt one pound
 of ice, and be itself reduced to the same temperature, that of 32°,
 then water at 32° contains 140J more of caloric than ice at the
 same temperature;        and if so, it is evident that 140° of caloric
 disappear and become latent in the solution and conversion of

 51                   On Chemical Philosophy.
 ice into water ; and that this 1403 is the difference in the quan
 tity required in each of these different relative states of existence ;
 the quantity, in short, which is necessary to produce the liquid
  form of water, as well as to support this change of form which
 it has produced. The same principle is seen in the further so
 lution and conversion of this element into vapour, steam or gas :
  950° of heat disappear and become latent in every portion of
  water passmg into this state ; so that though water and steam
  are both at the same temperature 212°, yet the steam contains
  950° more of caloric than the same weight of water at that tem
  perature : the caloric is hence said to become latent, or the
  energies of this quantity necessary to produce the change are
 occupied or suspended in supporting it in this new state of ex
  istence it has produced.
     This I conceive is a clearer expression of latent heat, free ca
  loric, caloric of temperature, capacity, &c, for it not merely
  expresses the fact, but the explanation of that fact at the same
 time.     Indeed, in this respect, Dr. Black stated the fact, as far
 as it was then known to him, in such a clear and beautiful man-,
 ner, that I wonder how this should ever have been a subject of
  controversy, or that Dr. Irvin and Dr. Cleghorn should imagine
  they gave any better explanation of it, by saying that
                                                             " heat dis
  appears and becomes latent, ?wt in effecting the change, but as
 the effect of that change."     This to me conveys a very imper
 fect conception of the change ; it is at any rate a very confused,
 partial and imperfect expression of the fact.         Heat disappears,
 not merely as a consequence, but as a cause.         It is necessary to
 apply heat to effect the change, which heat disappears, and
 again reappears on the steam returning to its former state: what
 then can be so plain, as that the quantity necessary to produce
 the change, disappears or becomes latent, because it has to sup
 port the change produced ?
     It thus appears that one quantity is necessary for the solid,
 another for the liquid, and another for the gaseous states j and
 this quantity differing in every different species of matter, we find
 substances assuming the liquid and gaseous forms at every pos
 sible point of temperature. It would carry us too much into de
 tail, to contemplate'the beauty and utility of this law. In these
 Essays we shall therefore merely confine ourselves to the illustra
 tion afforded by the instance already mentioned.            Give to ice
 the quantity necessary for the production of water; the pro
perties and active energies of this quantity are then employed in
supporting this new state of existence ; it cannot therefore act
upon any thing else, or produce the sensation or effects of free
caloric; it is said to be latent.     Similar also is the case with its
further   conversion  into steam,  which,   like the gases, is a simple
                                                                solution

                          On Chemical Philosophy.                   55
  solution of a substance in caloric, with this difference, that the
  steam is separable from its solvent caloric at a temperature be
  low 2 1 2"-, anrl, of course, at the common temperature of our at
  mosphere.      To prove that this is the difference between the
  permanent gases and vapour, I need only mention the fact,
  " that steam does not scald so much from high pressure as from
 low pressure :" this seems a priori contrary to our expectations ;
  but it is a fact, that however high the temperature is raised above
.21 2% it will not scald or burn more than common atmospheric
  air heated to the same temperature, because the active energies
  of this power are occupied or suspended by the water held in
  solution.    It is in fact air : but the moment it is liberated and
 lets go the water, then its energies are not suspended, but un
  occupied ; it instantly becomes free caloric, or caloric of tem
  perature, and scalds or burns, or passes with all its energies into
 some other substance, producing its changes and effects upon it
 according to its quantity and intensity, and the nature of such
  substance; and as this separation more readily takes place at a
 low than at a high pressure (temperature), the one must scald
 or burn sooner than the other.         In making the different gases
 by heat, we find the pipes in the first instance burning hot, and
 afterwards becoming comparatively cool, because the first thing
 which is driven off is steam ; which being abstracted by the tem
 perature of the surrounding medium, is set at liberty to act on
 the pipes, or any thing else that comes in its way : but when the
 permanent gases come over, which are not so separable, but rer
 quire that we should have recourse to elective attraction to se
 parate them, this same heat then becomes latent, and the pipes
 cool, and in this latent state carry the heat and flame in any di
rection we choose. When, however, as in carburetted hydrogen
 gas, it is made to unite with oxygen, this heat, together with
 that which holds the oxygen in solution, is liberated, and produces
heat and flame. Thus, while some have said, heat and flame are
from oxygen, others have said they are from hydrogen.           I say
they are from both.        And how often do we fmd truth differing
from and agreeing with all parties !
    The fact is, the gases are formed by the solution of substances
in this caloric, exactly on the same principle, only more at
tenuated, as ice is melted by heat, and forms, water; and conse
quently when they change their form of existence, they give up
this ^ower, and when on some concentrated point, as is always
the case when separated by elective attraction, heat and flame
appear.
    Had it not been for the impressions which the doctrine of
attraction    and repulsion had made on the mind, it would, I am
persuaded, have been quite natural for the chemists of thp time
                           f
                                    D4                             of

56                     On Chemical Philosophy.
of Lavoisier, and the discovery of the gases, to consider and speak
of the solution of substances in this power, as that which formed
the gaseous state of existence.          Indeed, in proof of this, we
find them with great difficulty refraining from doing so, affording
a remarkable instance how, even in the strongest minds, nature
and truth will struggle with prejudice and error.            (' It is pro
bable," says Lavoisier *, "that the separation of the particles of
bodies, occasioned by caloric, depends, in a similar manner, on
a certain combination of attractive powers, which, in conformity
with the imperfection of our knowledge, ice endeavour to express
ly saying that caloric communicates empower of repulsion to the
particles of bodies." In another place he says : 'f It is extremely
difficult to form an accurate notion of this repulsion acting upon
very minute particles, placed at great distances from each other."
In my opinion, it is utterly impossible. Perhaps the common and
modern notions of attraction and repulsion, either prevented him
from seeing as much distinctly, or deterred him from expressing
it ; but he is often obliged to come very near the truth in such
passages as these :
                         " In each species of gas, I shall," says he,
" distinguish between the caloric which in some measure an
swers the purpose of a solvent, and the substance which is in
combination with caloric, and forms the base of the gas." Why
say
      " in some measure," and not at once in plain terms it is
the solvent It Indeed almost all the chemists of that period, not
withstanding this attachment to former views, generally speak
of the solution of bodies in caloric : in fact, so simple and ob
vious is the idea, and so evidently must it have obtruded itself on
their minds, that it is wonderful they could adopt any other
mode of expression.         What other reasons had thev for adopt
ing the word     caloric  f or how otherwise could the Lavoisierian
 theory of combustion be intelligible ?         Chaptal and Fourcroy
speak of die solution of substances in fire and water as simi
lar. Fourcroy says, " Caloric sometimes adheres so forcibly to
bodies, that it prevents their combining with others.                 Thus
many    are  dissolved   into   gas or other  elastic fluids,   as steam  ;
some will neither unite with other bodies, nor with one another,
 so long as they retain this state of invisible solution in caloric ;
 so that recourse must be had to double elective attractions,, to
effect their combinations." And again: ts The attraction of ca
 loric for some bodies is so great, that it is frequently employed
with advantage for separating these substances from the com
pounds into which they enter, and for analysing and decompos
ing compound bodies. This is what we 3o in distillation, and
in all the decompositions effected by fire alone, or caloric ap-
                         t  gee page 25, Elements.

                        On Chemical    Philosophy.                   57
plied to compound substances."          The different elements of these
compounds are gradually dissolved in the order of their solu
bility ; and when we come to chemical affinity, we shall show how
t his explains the decompositions     and combinations of substances.
It is evident that Fourcrov considered the gases as the solution
of substances in caloric ; for he never speaks of the separation of
the particles to a greater distance, as that which constituted the
gaseous or liquid forms.        Indeed Dr. Thomson has wisely given
up this in the last edition of his System. , It would therefore be
 the less necessary to insist on this, were it not that I conceive it
 is preparing the way for the explanation of some cases where no
 theory has yet been offered at all worthy of the name.        I allude
 to galvanism in particular.        How separating the particles of
 niatter, by the power of repulsion, can ever produce the gaseous
  or liquid forms, is one of those things J could never understand,
  nor have 1 yet met with oiie who could.          Men may profess to
  believe what is the faith of the schools ; but unless the under
  standing be convinced, it is mere profession.       The mere mecha
  nical separation of the particles can obviously never change the
  quality of substances; but solution and combination with a,
  power which produces every effect must change their properties.
      The argument in favour of the doctrine of repulsion, which
  says, that but for such a power all bodies must be equally solid,
  is mere assertion without meaning — all bodies are not the same.
  It is said that the particles of matter do not touch each other,
  because some few can be pressed" into smaller space; and that
  therefore they are held together in this state by some repulsive
   power : But neither of these inferences at all follows.      Caloric
  fills up the insterstices, and caloric is something material ; it may
   be beat or squeezed out, as all metals in this way evolve heat.
   It is .very probable that the particles of matter themselves may
   not touch at all points; — but why talk about such points, when
   we neither know what they are, nor what they are like, as is too
   well proved by the various controversies respecting them ? Wc
   shall, notwithstanding this, recur to the subject when we come to
  .chemical affinity.    Let us be careful, howeyer, lest we waste our
   time and talents on mere speculative points.        There is enough
  -to do in philosophy without this.
       " Heat," says Chaptal, " by combining with bodies, pro
   duces an effect the very opposite of attraction ; and we might
   consider ourselves as authorized to affirm that it is a principle
   of repulsion, if sound chemistry had not proved that it produces
    these effects only by its endeavour to combine with bodies, and
   therebynecessarilydiminishingtheforeeof aggregation, as all other
    chemical agents do. Besides which, the extreme levity of caloric
                           '
                         .                                     produces

    58                  Notices respecting New Books.
    produces the effect, that when it is combined with any body it
    continually tends to elevate           it,
                                         and in this way overcome that
    foree (gravitation) which retains        and would precipitate
                                                    it,               to             it
    wards the earth."
     I   am,     Irepeat, the more anxious to establish this view, be
    cause    Iam convinced      affords the only satisfactory explanation
                               it
    of the operations and phaenomena of nature and art.               ne        It   is
    cessary to prove this, and first           by
                                         an examination of Galvanism.
      Colliergate, York, July 15, 1818.
                                    [To   be continued.]
                      |
                           ,                                  ...                         _,°
                     IX.   Notices respecting New Books.
    Philosophical Transactions   the Roi/al Society
                                          of                             of   London,for
                       the Year 1818. Fart                    I.
    The Transactions       of the Royal Society since the commencement
    of the present year    have been distinguished      by several papers of
     great novelty and importance.        The original and valuable ex^
    pcrimeuts of Captain Kater on the pendulum, for which the
     Copleian medal was adjudged to him, are at the present moment
    particularly deserving general attention.          We regret that the
    jate period of the month at which this part of the Society's
     Transactions has appeared, obliges us to postpone till our next
    number, laying the particulars of these experiments before our
    readers.    The following passage will show the general principle
    on which they have proceeded
        " Not feeling at all satisfied with the prospect which the use
                                            :
    of rod presented,
         a                 I  endeavoured to discover some property of
    the pendulum     of which  I  might avail myself with greater pro
    bability of success; and    I   was so fortunate as to perceive one,
    which promised an unexceptionable result.                   known that
                                                                    It   is
    the centres of suspension and oscillation are reciprocal           or, in   ;
    other words, that  if  a  body be suspended        its centre of oscilla
                                                              by
    tion, its former point of suspension becomes the centre of oscil
    lation, and the vibrations       both positions will be performed in
                                     in
    equal  times.   Now,    the distance         of
                                            the centre of oscillation from,
    the point of suspension depending on the figure of the body em
    ployed,  if the arrangement of its particles be changed, the place
    of the centre of oscillation will also suffer        change.
                                                              a     Suppose
    then a body to be furnished with             point of suspension, and
                                                          a
    another point on which      it  may vibrate, to be fixed as nearly as
    can be estimated     in  the centre of oscillation, and in a line with
    the point of suspension and centre of gravity.            the vibrations
                                                                    If
    in each position should pot be equal in equal times, they may
.    .                                                                              readily

                   Notices respecting New Books.                  59
readily be made so, by shifting a moveable weight, with which
the body is to be furnished, in a line between the centres of sus
pension and oscillation ; when the distance between the two
points about which the vibrations were performed being mea
sured, the length of a simple pendulum, and the time of its vi
bration, will at once be known, uninfluenced by any irregularity
of density or figure."
    The following, including this paper of Capt. Kater's, are the
contents of the present part of the Transactions :
  ' " I. On the great Strength given to Ships of War by the Ap
plication of Diagonal Braces.      By Robert Seppings, Esq. F.R.S.
— II. A Memoir on the Geography of the North-eastern Part of
Asia, and on the Question whether Asia and America are con
tiguous, or are separated by the Sea.       By Captain James Bur-
uey, F.R.S.   — III.  Additional Facts respecting the fossil Remains
of an Animal, on the Subject of which two Papers have been
printed in the Philosophical Transactions,        showing that the
Bones of the Sternum resemble those of the Ornithorhynchus
paradoxus.      By Sir Everard Home, Bart. V.P.R.S. — IV. An
Account of Experiments for determining the Length of the Pen
dulum vibrating Seconds in the Latitude of London.           By Capt.
Henry Kater, F.R.S. — V. On the Length of the French Metre
estimated in Parts of the English Standard.       By Captain Henry
Kater, F.R.S. — VI. A few Facts relative to the colouring Mat
ters of some Vegetables.       By James Smithson, Esq. F.R.S. —
 VII. An Account of Experiments made on the Strength of Ma
terials.   By George Rennie jun. Esq. In a Letter to Thomas
Young,    M.'D. For. Sec. R.S.— VIII. On the Office of the Heart
Wood of Trees.         By T. A. Knight, Esq. F.R.S.      In a Letter
 addressed   to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. G.C.B.
P.R.S. — IX. On circulating Functions, and on the Integration
of a Class of Equations of finite Differences into which they en
ter as Coefficients.      By John F. W. Herschel, Esq. F.R.S. —
 X. On the Fallacy of the Experiments in which Water is said
to have been formed by the Decomposition of Chlorine.             Bv
Sir H. Davy, LL.D.F.R.S.— XI. The Croonian Lecture. On
the Changes the Blood undergoes in the Act of Coagulation. Bv
Sir Everard Home, Bart. V.P.R.S. — XII. Some Additions to
 the Croonian Lecture, on the Changes the Blood undergoes in
 the Act of Coagulation.      By Sir Everard Home, Bart. V.P.R.S.
 — XIII. On the Laws of Polarisation and double Refraction in
 regularly crystallized Bodies. By David Brewster, LL.D. F.R.S.
 Lond. and Edin.        In a Letter to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph
 Banks, Bart.   G.C.B. P.R.S."
                                                        Transactions

60                   Notices respecting New Bonks.
  Transactions      of   the   Royal Society of Edinburgh.    Part     II.
                                   Vol. VIII. .
   The Part of this Society's Transactions now published con
tains the following interesting articles :
 '
   "On the Effects of Compression and Dilatation in altering
the polarising Structure of doubly refracting Crystals. By Dar
vkl Brewster, LL.D. F.R.S. London and Edinburgh. — Experir
ments ou Muriatic Acid Gas, with Observations on Its chemical
Constitution, and on some other Subjects of chemical Theory.
By John Murray, M.D. F.R.S. Edinburgh. —             Ex|>eririjent!5    on
the Relation between the Muriatic Acid and Chlorine ; to which
is subjoined, the Description of a new Instrument for the Ana
lysis of Gases by Explosion.    By Andrew Ure, M.D. Professor
of the Andersonian Institution and Member of the Geological
Society. — On the Laws which regulate the Distribution of the
polarising Force in Plates, Tubes, and Cylinders of Glass that
have received the polarising Structure.     By David Brewster,
LL.D. F.R.S. London and Edinburgh. — Remarks illustrative of
the Scope and Influence of the philosophical Writings of Lord
Bacon. By Macvey Napier, Esq, F.R.S. London and Edin
burgh, and F.A.S. Edinburgh. — Sketch of the Geology of the
Environs of Nice.    By Thomas Allan, Esq. F-R-S. Edinburgh.
— On certain Impressions of Cold transmitted from the Atmo-
sphere, with the Description of an Instrument adapted to mea
sure them.     By John Leslie, F.R.S. Edinburgh, and Professor
of Mathematics in the University of Edinburgh. — A Method of
determining the Time wi.th Accuracy, from a Series of Altitudes
of the Sun, taken on the same Side of the Meridian. Bv Major-
general Sir Thomas Brisbane, Knight, F.R.S. Edinburgh. — Ob
servations on the Junction of the Fresh Water of Riyers with the
Salt Water of the Sea. By the Rev. John Fleming, D.D. F.R.S.
Edinburgh. — Memoir of the Life and Writings of the Honourable
Alexander Fraser Tytlar, Lord WQodhouseJee.         By the Rev.
Archibald Allison, LL.D. F.R.S. London and Edinburgh."
Elements of Chemical Science as applied to the Arts and
   Manufactures and Natural Phce?wrnena. By J.
                                                            Murray.
   pp. 294.
   The work before us aims at no other praise than what we may
safelv accord it, that of exhibiting   lucid and comprehensive view
                                       a
of the principles of chemistry.       The difficulties which stand in
the way of any systematic arrangement of chemical phaenomena
are many and formidable       but Mr. Murray has nevertheless suc
                               ;
ceeded  in forming  a disposition  of materials, which, distinguished
b\a   good  deal of  novelty, conveys      very clear idea of the na
                                           a
                                                                     ture

                .     Notices risptcting New Books.                       61
tare and properties of the subjects treated.   The system of ar
rangement the author has adopted is founded on electrical af
fections, and is consequently well calculated to facilitate the
study of electro-chemical science.     The work in this point of
view is particularly deserving the attention of the chemical stu
dent, and is altogether a production which does much credit to
the well-known ingenuity and research of its indefatigable au
thor.
Memoirs    of   the   Life and Writings of Benjamin Franklin,
   LL.D. F.R.S. &c.     Written ly himself to a late Period,
   and continued         Time vf his Death ly his Grandson
                       to the
  William Temple Franklin. Vol. III. 4to. pp. 5/0. 1818.
  The present volume, which is the last of a very valuable and
important work, comprehends the select political, philosopftical
and miscellaneous writings of Franklin.    Some of the essays
contained in the philosophical branch have already appeared ;
but by far the greater portion of   including several of the latest
                                     it,
and most ingenious of the Doctor's writings, are stated to b£
now for the first time printed from his own manuscripts.
   Mr. W. Westdll, who accompanied Captain Flinders on his
voyage round the world, has lately executed     work, consisting
                                                          a
of variety of Views of the Caves in the North-west Riding of
   a
Yorkshire, with some of the most interesting scenes in their
neighbourhood, particularly Malham Cove and Gordale Scar.
   They are not only highly picturesque, but appear to be geo
logically correct representations of some of the most extraor
dinary scenes   inthis country; and       strange circumstance,
                                           it   is
                                                a
that no work upon the same subject has before appeared, as the
caves have for some years past attracted   great many visitors.
                                                 a
   An Essay, which Dr. Jos. de Matthaeis read in the Archaeo
logical Society at Rome, on the 29th of Feb. 1818, has now
been published under the title of SuW origine de numeri Romani.
The author attempts to prove that the Roman numerals,         as well
as the ancient Etruscan, originated       the nai-ls which these na-
                                           in
tious, in the earlier periods of their history, caused to have an
nually fixed    bytheir magistrates, for other than chronological
purposes,  in the  Temple of Jupiter, and in that of Nurtia, their
Goddess of Fortune, at Vulsinium (Bolsena).
   Just published,     A   Guide to Botany   ;   or   A   familar Illustration
 of the Linnaean Classification of Plants with coloured Plates.
                                                 ;
 By James Millar, M.D. Editor of the Encyclopaedia Edinensis,
 and of the 4th Edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica.

                                [  62    ]
                X.  Proceedings   of Learned  Societies.
                           ROYAL SOCIETY.
    June 4.   A paper by Sir Everard      Home was read, containing
  a description  of the Dclphinus Gaugeticus j also another paper
 by Dr. Granville, giving an account of the production of sul
 phuretted Azote in the abdomen by the decomposition of an
 albuminous dropsical fluid ; — and a third paper by John Wil
 liams, Esq. explaining the influence of Galvanism upon germi
 nation.
    June 11. A paper was read by Dr. Prout, describing a new
 acid principle prepared from the lithic or uric acid, which he
 denominates the purpuric acid.
    Another paper by Sir William Herschel was read, On the
 relative distances of clusters of Stars, and the power of Tele
 scopes in discerning celestial objects.
    The President then adjourned the Society for the long vaca
 tion.
                    ROYAI. INSTITUTE    OF FRANCE.
                        ACADEMY OF SCIENCES.
    Prize proposed   —   To determine the chemical changes which
fruits   undergo   during  maturation, and afterwards.
    For the solution of this question it will be necessary to exa
 mine with care the influence of the atmosphere which surrounds
 the fruits, and the alterations which they receive from it.
    The essayist may confine his observations to fruits of different
 species, provided consequences general enough can be drawn
 from them.
    The prize will be a gold medal of the value of 3000 fr. The
 term of competition is limited to the 1st January 1819.
             XI. Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                     CASE OF THOMAS GASKING.
                            To Mr. Tilloch.
 It   is impossible  to ascertain,  otherwise than by casual obser
 vation, witli what   rapidity the powers of the human mind may
be unfolded ; and      how closely infancy can be taught to pursue
the footsteps of     manhood in     the arduous paths of science.
Master (now Dr.) Crotch formerly astonished the amateurs of
music, when five years of age, by his practical skill in that pleas
ing art j and Zerah Colburn lately attracted universal attention
                                                                  by

                      Case  of Thomas Gashing.                      f>3
by his uncommon proficiency in mental arithmetic.           These in
stances of premature genius are surprising; but they are ex
amples of practical knowledge, with which the reasoning faculty
has little to do. Experience seems to show, that this distin
guishing property of the mind requires time to unfold itself; and
that it is as unreasonable to expect fruit from a tree before it has
blossomed, as to look for a correct judgement in an infant. The
maxim is admitted to be general, but it is not without exception;
for a child nine years old is at present in Kendal, who has, by
his progress in mathematics, united reason to practice. Thomas
 Gashing is the son of an industrious and ingenious journeyman
 shoemaker, of Penrith; and I now proceed to notice his literary
 attainments, which he has acquired in the course of two years.
 He has learned to read correctly and gracefully; he writes a good
 hand with surprising expedition; and he has made some pro
 gress in the English grammar.       The boy went through this part
 of his education in a day-school at Penrith ; but he is indebted
for his mathematical knowledge to the tuition of his father, who,
 though in low circumstances, has laudably dedicated his hours
 of leisure to scientific pursuits, as I am informed. Little Gas-
 king seems well acquainted with the leading propositions in
 Euclid; he reads and works algebra with the greatest facility,
 and has entered upon the study of fluxions.          I am aware that
 this report will appear incredible to those who are acquainted
 with the different subjects which have been enumerated ; but
the following instance of his wonderful proficiency will, in all pro
 bability, remove any doubts that competent judges may enter
 tain. A stranger gentleman, who was invited, with myself, to
 examine the boy, requested him to demonstrate the thirteenth
 proposition of the first book of Euclid; which he did immediately.
 The demonstration of the twentieth proposition of the same
 book was next proposed : he drew out the figure ; and though
 he failed in his first attempt, he soon recovered the train of
 reasoning, and went through the demonstration correctlv. Being
 asked, if he had two sides of a triangle and the angle included
 given, how he would proceed to find the third side ? the process
 appeared quite familiar to him, and we found, upon inquirv, he
 was acquainted with logarithms, and was able to use them.           In
 spherical trigonometry, he solved two cases of right-angled tri
 angles by Lord Napier's rules.      His skill, and the rapidity of his
 operations,  in algebra,  created  more surprise than his knowledge
 of geometry; — he solved a number of quadratic equations with
 the greatest ease, and extracted the square roots of the numbers
 which resulted from his operations.      Several questions were put
 to him which contained two unknown quantities ; these he also
 answered without difficulty.      Being asked if he had been taught
'                             '
                                                                    the

  64      Steam Engines in Cornwall.-+New                 South Wales.
  the application of algebra to geometry, he answered in the affirm
  mative, and immediately solved the following problem : — Given
  one leg of a right-angled triangle, and the excess of the hy-
  pothenuse above the other leg, to construct the triangle.                     He'
  answered two or three problems relating to the maxima of num
  bers and of geometrical magnitudes with ease, and took the
  fluxions, which were not difficult, correctly.             When the age of
  this child   is compared      with    his   scientific attainments, we can
  look on him in no other light than as a literary phaenomenon,
  who promises to become an ornament to one of the British Uni
  versities, unless his progress should unfortunately be checked by
  indigence, or the vigour of his mind should be enfeebled by some
  sinister accident-                                           John Gough.
                     STEAM ENGINES IN CORNWALL.
     From Messrs. Leans' Report for June                ISIS, it  appears that
 during that month the following was the work                    performed by
  the engines reported, with each bushel of coals.
                                 Pounds of water lifted      hand per square
                              1foot high vnth each bushel.    inch in cylinder.
 24 common engines averaged                 23,836,654            various.
 Woolfs at Wheal Vor               . .      30,336,482            17-3 lib.
 Ditto        Wh. Abraham ..                34,352,013             16-8
 Ditto          ditto   ..         ..        34,846,939             60
.Dakouth engine           ..       ,.        38,143,42S            11-3
•Wheal Abraham,         ditto       ..       34,291,588            109
 United Mines engine  "             ..       30,105,2^0            15-8
  Treskirbv ditto       .  .        . .      42,098,797            10- 8
 Wheal Chance ditto                 . ,      35,797,348            11- 5
                             NEW SOUTH WALES.
     A discovery has been made in New South Wales, which must
 materially affect the future advancement of that colonv.                    "A
 river of the first magnitude" has been found in the interior,
 running through a most beautiful country, rich in soil, lime
 stone, slate, and good timber.             A means of communication like
 this, has long been anxiously searched for without success, and
 many began to entertain an apprehension that the progress of
 colonization in New Holland would be confined to its coasts.
     Mr. Oxley, the surveyor-genera!, was sent out with a party in
 an expedition to the westward of the Blue Mountains, to trace
the course of the lately discovered river Laehlan, and to ascer
 tain the soil, capabilities, and productions, of the country through
 which it was expected to pass in its course to the sea.              Mr. Oxley
 left Bathurst on the 30th April 1817.                He proceeded down the
 Laehlan until the 12th May, the country rapidly descending
                                                                            until

                                New South Wa'es.                             65
Mntil"the waters of the river rose to a level with           it,
                                                     and, divided
into numerous branches, lost itself among the marshes. Mr.
Oxley quitted the river on the 17th May, taking      S.W. course
                                                             a
towards Cape Northumberland.       He continued this course until
the 9th June, when he was induced to change his course to
north. On this course he continued till the 23d June, when he
again fell in with a stream, whiah he could with difficulty recog
 nise as the Lachlan,       being little larger than one of the branches
                           it
of  it where     was quitted on the 7th May.
                 it                     1               He kept along the
banks of this stream till the 8th July, when the whole country
became    a  marsh altogether uninhabitable.            This unlooked-for
and truly singular termination of        a   river, filled the party with
the most painful sensations.           They were full 500 miles west of
           and nearly    in its  latitude   and  it had taken them ten
                                            -
Sydney,                                  5
weeks of unremitted exertion to proceed so far.                  Returning
down the Lachlan, he recommenced the survey of                    from the
                                                                   it
point on which         was made the 23d June.
                      it                             The connexion with
all the points of the survey previously ascertained, was completed
between the 19th July and the 3d August.           It   was estimated that
the river from the place where first made          by Mr. Evans, had run
a   course, taking all its windings, of upwards of 1200 miles,               a
length of course altogether unprecedented* considering that the
original its only supply of water during that distance.
           is.
    " Crossing at this point," says Mr. Oxley           inhis Report, ec     it
was my intention to take          aN.E. course to intersect the country,
and  if possible  to   ascertain   what had become of the Macquarrie
River, which      itwas clear had never joined the Lachlan.            This
course led us through a country to the full as bad as any we had
yet seen, and equally devoid of water, the want of which again
much distressed us.         On the 7th August the scene began to
change,   and  the    country to assume      avery different aspect.    We
were now quitting the neighbourhood of the Lachlan, and had
passed to the N.E. of the high range of hills which on this parallel
bounds the low country to the north of that river.                  To the
N.W. and N. the country was high and open, with good forest
land ;  and on the 10th we had the satisfaction to fall                 in
                                                                       with
the first stream running northerly.          This renewed our hopes of
soon falling     inwith the Macquarrie, and we continued upon the
sarnie comse, occasionally        inclining to the eastward, until the .
19th, passing through           afine luxuriant country well watered,
crossing in that space of time nine streams, having               northerly
                                                                   a
course through rich valleys, the country in every direction being
moderately high and open, and generally as fine as can be ima
                 -
gined.              .
    " No doubt remained upon our minds that those streams fell
Vol. 52. No.243. Jaty 1818.                        E                    into

66                                    Mineralogy.
into the Macquarrie,       and to view it before it received such an
accession was our first wish.      On the 19th we were gratified by
falling in  with  a  river running through a most beautiful country,
              I
and which should have been well contented to have believed
the river we were in search of. Accident led us down this
stream about a mile, when we were surprised by its junction with
a river coming from the south, of such width and magnitude as
to dispel all doubts as to this last being the river we had so long
anxiously looked for.        Short as our resources were, we could
not   resist the   temptation this beautiful country offered us, to
remain two days on the junction of the rivers, for the purpose
 of examining the vicinity to as great an extent as possible.
     " Our examination increased the satisfaction we had pre
viously felt. As far as the eye could reach in every direction, a
 rich and picturesque country extended, abounding in limestone,
 slate, good timber, and every other requisite that could render
 an uncultivated country desirable.      The soil cannot be excelled ;
 whilst a nolle river of the Jirst magnitude afforded the means
 of conveying its productions from one part to the other. Where
 I quitted     it,
                its course was northerly, and we were then north
 of the parallel of Port Stephens, being in latitude 32° 45' S. and
 148" 58' E. longitude."
    The course and direction of this river      to be the object of an
                                                              is
early expedition,
                                      MINERALOGY.
                                   To      Mr.     Tilloch.
     Sir, — Permit                                      and to that
                         me to submit to your consideration,
of your mineralogical    readers, the following remarks and sug
gestions respecting      mineral allied in some respects both to
                             a
tremolite and to the zeolites    but which, in my opinion, should
                                           ;
form    distinct species in mineralogical arrangements.
         a
                             I   am, sir, yours very respectfully,
June 29,     1818.                             -
                                                                   LlTHOPHII.CS.
  In the fifth volume of the Edinburgh Transactions          paper      isa
by Dr. Kennedy, containing a description, with an analysis, of                     a
mineral found inclosed within      mass of prehnite in the basaltic
                                               a
rock upon which Edinburgh Castle         built. Dr. K. considers
                                                        is
itto be    zeolite — Mr. Allan in his Tables of Analyses deno
             a           ;
minates      asbeslous
              it        tremolite: while in Professor Jameson^
System of Mineralogy          not mentioned under any appellation
                                 it   is
whatever. To repeat its characters would be foreign to my pre
sent purpose     but the following
                     ;                 Dr. Kennedy's statement of
                                                   is
the results of his analysis:

  -
    The late Explosion   of the Coal- Mine     at Newton-Green. "67
                                              51-50
                                              32-00
                                               0-50
                                               0-50
                                                8-50
                   Carbonic acid, &c.    . .,   5-
                                              98-
witlv.tcaces of magnesia and muriatic acid.
    Now, in the first place, this substance cannot with accuracy
be considered as a zeolite, for all species of that mineral contain
at least one-tenth of alumina {vide Analyses by Klaproth, Smith-
son, Gehlen, Vauquelin, &c.) ; whereas the mineral in question
does not contain above l-200dth of that earth.
    Secondly. Notwithstanding     its similarity in specific gravity
and in phosphorescence, it is impossible that it can be correctly
classed as a tremolite : for the analytical experiments of Klap
roth, Chenevix, Laugier, and other chemists, have demonstrated
that magnesia is an essential ingredient of that fossil ; while in
the mineral analysed by Dr. Kennedy the quantity of magnesia
was unappreciable.
    Thirdly. No other mineral, as far as my knowledge extends,
fs at all analogous, in point of composition, with that to which
these observations relate.
    It would seem, from the above considerations, that this cu
rious mineral constitutes a distinct species ; and as it has hitherto
been found at Edinburgh only, it is suggested that Edinite would
be a suitable appellation for it.
THE LATE EXPLOSION OF THE COAL-MINE              AT NEWTON-GREEN,
                                AYR.
    The particulars of this accident were noticed in our last num
ber : the following explanation of it has been since given by the
Ayr Journal :
 ' *{
       We are requested to state, that the safety-lamp which oc
casioned the explosion by which Mr. Millar lost his life, as men
tioned in our last, upon being examined, was found to have a
small defect at the socket.     We are further informed, that a
candle was used in the lamp, by the melting of which some tal
low had fallen on, and adhered to, the wire-gauze.        From these
facts, and from that formerly stated of the lamp being excessively
heated, it is concluded, that the combustion proceeded either
from the communication of the gas with the flame through the
defect in the socket — from the illumination of the grease on the
gauze by the high temperature of the lamp — from the extraor
dinary heat of the lamp itself—or from a combination 6# these
                               E 2                    circumstances,

63   W atet-Spbut.- Animal     Remains. -New Discovery in Optics-
circumstances, and not from any deficiency in the original in
vention of Sir Humphry Davy.         We feel satisfaction in making
this statement, as it thus appears, that the unfortunate' accident
which happened, ought not to lessen the confidence of miners
in those lamps, when sufficient care is taken that they be not
faulty, or imprudently used.     We are also assured that, upon one
occasion, a lamp used at the Ayr Colliery continued safe with the
inflammable air burning in it for the space of three hours, and
that at that colliery the greatest confidence has been placed in
them by the workmen."
                   DESTRUCTIVE     WATER-SPOUT.
   On the 1 8th June a water-spout of immense diameter inun
dated great part of the arrondissement of Auxerre.          The rain,
accompanied     by large hailstones, fell in  torrents for thirty mi
nutes.    The whole harvest in nineteen communes is destroyed.
In some quarters the water was six feet deep ; at Fontenai a
house was thrown down, and four children killed, and several
other edifices were much damaged.
          ANIMAL REMAINS. — MAMMOTH          — CROCODILE.
   There have been recently discovered in the parish of Mottes-
ton, on the south side of the Isle of Wight, the bones of that
Stupendous animal supposed to be the Mammoth, or Mastodon.
Several of the vertebra;, or joints of the back-bone, measure
36 inches in circumference : they correspond exactly in form,
colour, and texture, with the bones found in plenty on the banks
of the Ohio in North America, in a vale called by the Indians
Big-bone Swamp. — Also, in the parish of Northwood, on the
north side of the island, the bones of the Crocodile have recently
been found by the Rev. Mr. Hughes of Newport.            They seem
to have belonged to an animal of that species, whose body did
not exceed twelve feet in length. — Their calcareous nature is not
altered; but the bones of the Mastodon (found on the south
side of the island) contain iron.
                    NEW DISCOVERY     IN OPTICS.
   A very interesting and important discovery has lately been,
made on the increase and projection of light, by Mr. Lester, en
gineer.    As this discovery will form a new aera in optics, a re
cord of its history must prove interesting to the scientific world,
and, as such, we shall briefly lay before our readers the following
aecount of it by a correspondent.
    Mr. Lester being engaged at the West India Docks for the
purpose of applying his new mechanical power, The Converter,
                                                                   to

                       New Discovery in Opliet.                           69
fa cranes, by which the labour of winches is performed by row
mg, &c; on taking a view of the immense spirit vaults, he was
forcibly struck by the inefficient mode adopted to l?ght those very
extensive and wonderful depots*, which is by a cast-iron cylinder
of about two feet in diameter,and two feet deep, placed in lieu ot
a key-stone in the centre of each arch               these cylinders are
closed at their tops, and each furnished with five plano-convex
lenses (bull's eyes) of Messrs. Pellatt and Green's patent, which
 are admirably adapted to the conveying of light in all situations,
except down a deep tube or cylinder, where the refraction they
produce (in consequence of their convex form) betwixt the angles
 of incidence and reflection, prevents the rays from being pro
jected into the place intended to be lighted.             This refraction
 throws the light upon the concave sides of the cylinder, where
 it is principally absorbed, instead of keeping the angles of inci
 dence and reflection equal.
     From these observations, Mr. Lester concluded, that a lens
 might be so constructed as to prevent this refraction, and com
 menced a course of experiments for that purpose.            He succeeded
 by obtaining the proper angle of the incidental rays with a mirror,
 and finding the scope of the cylinder sufficiently copious to ad
 mit the reflected rays into the vault, provided the refraction of
 the lens did not intervene.        The 6ame angle produced by'the
 mirror he endeavoured to retain upon the sides of the lens, by
 giving it a different form, a peculiar part of which he intended
 to foliate.   But having met with insurmountable difficulties in
 this process, he concluded, from the striking appearance of sil
 very light upon the interior surface of that part he intended to
 silver, that metal would represent the light by retaining that
form, and, brought down below the edges of the kns, might
 produce the desired effect.       Jn his attempt to accomplish this
purpose, by holding the body in a vertical position between the
eye and a candle, a flash of light was instantly produced, by re
 presenting the flame of the candle magnified to the size of the
whole of the inner surface of this piece of metal, and gave an in
creased light upon the wall opposite to him.             After this disco
very,   he had  several pieces of metal formed, retaining the same
angle, but of various diameters, and found to his great surprise,
 that, although their area were greatly increased, the representa
tion of the flame still filled them without the least diminution in
 the quality of the light, but with an increased light against the
wall, in proportion to the increased area of the surface of the
  ' * One of which is nearly an acre and an  half in ar>»a, and is supported
by 207 groined arches and ?07 stone pillars.
  tV                               J2 3
                                                                      metal.

                                              t
70                     New Discovery in Optics.
metal*.      How far this power and effect may extend, is not at
present ascertained ; but it is believed that a zone of light of the
same quality and effect may be produced to an inconceivable ex
tent.     Some idea may be formed of the powerful and important
results that may be derived from this discovery, by reasoning
philosophically on its principles : — Let a candle or any other
light be represented in a mirror at a given distance from the
flame, and the eye of the spectator be placed so as to view its
 reflection nearly in the cathetus of incidence. Let him mark the
quantity of light represented in the mirror, and such will be its
true quality when forming a zone of represented flame of double
 the diameter of the distance betwixt the real flame and the.
mirror.
     If a candle be placed before a mirror, its flame will be repre
 sented   ; and if a thousand mirrors are placed in a given circle
 round a candle, the candle will be represented a thousand times,
 and each representation equal in brilliancy, if the mirrors are at
 equal distances from the flame.            Suppose that the thousand
 mirrors were united in such a form as to bring all the repre
 sented flames into one flame, of equal brilliancy with the real
 flame of the candle.       For the same law of nature by which the
 flame is represented a thousand times in as many mirrors so.
 united, it would be represented in one flame if the mirror be made
 of a proper form, and placed in a proper position to receive the
 rays of light that emanate from the candle in the direction of
 the angle of this peculiar formed mirror.
    As the light of a small candle is visible at the distance of four
 miles in a dark night, what must the diameter or circumference
 of that zone of flame be that is produced by this discovery from
 one of the gas lights in the streets of London ?           Thus two lamps
 or stations would be sufficient to light the longest street, when
 its position approaches to a right Hne, as the diameter of the
 zone may be made of the same diameter as the street ; and as
 the rays of light that are increased by this invention diverge
 from the luminous body, all parts of the street would he filled
 with light. Many are the minor advantages that will be de-.
 rived from its application to domestic purposes, for writing,
 reading, and working by candle or lamp light. This, like Dr,
 Brewster's kaleidoscope, is another instance of the effects to be
 produced by mirrors.
    * This invention is not confined solely to
                                                light, but the increase of heat
 keeps pace with the increase of light, and both in the ratio of the area of
 the surface.
    The apparatus is so constructed as to be placed upon a candle, and sinks
 down with the flame, without either flooding or waste.
                                                                             It

                             Polar Expedition.                        71
     It appears that the great impediment to improvement and
discovery in this branch of the science of optics has arisen from
the difficulty of foiling glass to the various forms necessary, in
lieu of which we have been compelled to use metallic substances.
These difficulties once removed, a vast field of important dis
covery will be opened on the nature and effect of light.          May
not many of the phaenomena that are observed in the air, such
as halos round the sun, be produced by this principle, the rays
falling upon a denser medium than air, and thus producing a
zone of light ? &c.
     The further particulars of this important discovery we hope
to lay before our readers in a future number.
                          POLAR EXPEDITION.
     For the following interesting observations on the state of the ioe
in the Arctic Circles, and the probability of our Northern expe
dition accomplishing its objects, we are indebted to the intelligent
 captain of one of our Greenland ships recently arrived here:
     " The probability of the ships which have .sailed to the North
 attaining one or /more of the ends sought, is a subject on which
 much argument has been used, and much difference of opinion
 expressed.      On the morning of the 8th June, I was in latitude       -
 79 deg. 40 min. N. about 40 miles distant from the land, reaching
 to the south, along the edge of the ice, and at that time saw both
 ships beating into Magdalen Bay.         As early as the 2d May, I
 was in latitude 80 deg. 10 min. N. and had found the country
 remarkably open until I approached 78 deg. 40 min. N.             Be
yond this the ice was more considerable in quantity, and much
 more compact, so as to increase the difficulty of our progress
 further, but not sufficient to preclude our reaching what is called
 the fast ice.    Here was presented an obstacle which nothing
 could overcome but a long succession of northerly winds, which
 if occurring,, might be expected to separate and force it down.
 In the interval between the 2d May and 4 th June, I was chiefly
 inlow latitudes,but previous to the 10th was again as far as 79 deg.
 45 min. N.       The ice had indeed come-down a considerable di
 stance, but remained equally close and solid, so that I am posi
 tive no rational hope could at that time be entertained of reach
 ing, or even coming near, the Pole.
      " The other objects of the expedition I have no. doubt will be
 fully realized, viz. the ascertaining whether Spitzbergen be an
 island, or joins some other land ; and the investigating the situa
 tions of the bays, inlets, &c.     The ice this season separated very
 early from the land, which circumstance was certainly favour
  able to the minor, if not particularly so to the major, objects of the
 undertaking.      In giving my opinion decidedly" against the proba-
   ,                               E   4                          bility

72                 Pseudo-volcano       in Staffordshire.
bility of the great end to which we anxiously look being attained,
it is but right to say, that I have witnessed the state of the coun
try for more than sixteen years, and, comparing the present with
some of the former, appearances are far less promising than I
have before seen.        In the year 1816 I reached the latitude of
82 deg. 15 min. N. and could see no obstacles but what might
easily have been surmounted, had it been my wish to proceed
 further. This Arises, as I have before observed, from the ice not
 separating, as in the season       I  have named, in its descent down
to the south, but continuing        close and unaltered." — (Hull Pa~
pers.)
                PSEUDO-VOLCANO IN STAFFORDSHIRE.
     Some interesting facts relative to what is called the Pseudo-
 volcano, near the Bradley iron-works in Staffordshire, have been
published.       The tract of ground is situated by the road side from
 Birmingham to Wolverhampton, about half way between Wed-
 nesbury and Bilston.        It is mentioned by Plot, in his Natural
 History    of  Staffordshire, as being on fire in 1686, when he
wrote : and he says it was not then known how long it had been
 on fire.    It then occupied a space of eleven acres ; but its ra
 vages have since extended about one mile and a half in extreme
 length, and one mile hi breadth.          Whether the fire originated in
 accident, or from the sulphur contained in the coal and pyrites,
 is not known ; but it probably arose from the latter cause as, at
 other pits, the small coal has taken fire on being exposed to the
 air. As the combustible matter is exhausted, the hand of culti
 vation resumes its labour ; and even in parts where the fire still
  exists, by carefully stopping the fissures, and preventing the ac
  cess of air, different crops can be raised. A neglect of these pre
  cautions sometimes destroys half the produce, whilst the re
 mainder continues flourishing.           About two years ago it htgan to
  penetrate through     the  floors   of some houses ; it produced great
  alarm by appearing in the night ; and four of the houses were
 taken down.       It exhibits a red heat in this situation, and the
 smoke has forced its way throiigh a bed of cinders forty feet in
 height.     On the south it is arrested by beds of sand, which cover
  the coal formation in that part; and on the north-east it is im
  peded by cultivation.       At first view a stranger might suppose
  himself in a volcanic region.         The exterior view of the strata
  exposed by the falling in of the ground, presents a surface black
  ened by the action of fire, and presenting most of the porphy-
  ritic and trap colours in high perfection.           The cinder dust on
  which fyou tread, the sulphureous vapours and smoke which arise
  from the various parts of the surface, and the feeling of insecu
 rity which
          '    attends most of your footsteps, all combine to give a
   •                                                                  high
        i

                        Poisoning  ly Arsenic,    •
                                                               ,   j%
high degree of interest to the scene. In some places of this re
gion coal is found only four feet from the surface.
                  TEST OF POISONING BY ARSENIC.
    On the 22d of May,    a Coroner's inquest was held before Tho
mas Stirling, Esq. at the King's Anns in Little Woodstock-
street, on the body of Eliz. Danvers, who, from disappointment
in love and a consequent state of despondency, had put an end to
her existence by means of arsenic.      Neither the family, nor the
medical gentleman who was called in, at first suspected the cause
of her death ; but a coffee-cup, out of which the deceased, it was
supposed, had drunk something improper, being sent to Mr,
Hume, chemist, in Long Acre, sufficient evidence was obtained
to induce a further inquiry. At this gentleman's request the body
was opened, and the contents of the stomach, which amounted
to about twelve ounces, were separated, and nearly a wine-glass
lull of these delivered to him for analysis. From these two sources
the most satisfactory and convincing testimony was derived,
that arsenic was the sole cause of her death ; for even the cof
fee-cup, although in appearance quite empty and clean, yielded a
sufficiency to substantiate above a thousand separate experiments.
Tbe contents of the stomach afforded a still more ample sup
ply, for they impregnated at least a pint and a half of distilled
Water so completely, that every single drop indicated the pre
sence of arsenic when exposed to the proper tests.         It was re
marked by Mr. Hume, and should serve as a warning to the ex
 perimentalist, that the Jluid portion of what was abstracted from
 the stomach showed no indications of the poison ; it was only
 from the sediment, and more gross and viscid matter, that he
 could form his solution. The medical practitioner, who had been
 Called in to the deceased, when labouring under the agonizing
 symptoms, at first declared the case to be that of cholera morbus.
 It is but fair, however, to state, that this professional gentleman
 saw the young woman but a few minutes before she expired ; for
 on witnessing some of the experiments, and attending to Mr.
 Hume's evidence, he most readily acquiesced in the verdict, that
 Miss Danvers's death was solely occasioned by a dose of arsenic,
 tt cannot be too strenuously impressed upon the public mind, that
 no substance is more readily detected than arsenic, provided the
 proper means be employed : it is therefore highly incumbent on
 medical men in general to inform themselves of the nature and
 practical application of the tests, and most effectual modes of
 operating, which, we believe, are very simple, and require but a
  moderate share of chemical knowledge.       There are many obser
 vations and comprehensive instructions upon this subject, espe

 74         Improvement    in the Manufacture   of Paper.
 cially by Mr. Hume, which will be found in various elementary
 and periodical works of science, particularly in the Philosophical
 Magazine, and the London Medical and Physical Journal. To
 these we earnestly recommend the attention of our readers, par
ticularly those of the Faculty of Medicine in all its branches, on
whom the verdict of an English Jury, and consequent life or
death of a fellow-creature, pften solely depends for its direction.
        IMPROVEMENT IN THE MANUFACTURE             OF  PAPER.
               [From the New York Evening Post.]
    We have lately visited the paper mills of Thomas Gilpin and
Co. on the Brandywine, and witnessed the performance of their
new machine for manufacturing paper on an extensive scale,
which promises an important addition to the arts and manufac
tures of our country.     This process of making paper delivers a
sheet of greater breadth than any made in America, and of any
length — in one continued unbroken succession, of fine or
 coarse materials, regulated at pleasure to a greater or lesser
thickness. — The paper, when made, is collected from the ma
chine on reels, in succession as they are filled ; and these are re
moved to the further progress of the manufacture.       The paper in
its texture is perfectly smooth and even, and is not excelled by
any made by hand in the usual manner of workmanship — as it
possesses all the beauty, regularity and strength of what is called
well closed and wejl shut sheets. The mills and engines now
prepared, are calculated to do the daily work of ten paper vats>
and will employ a water power equal to about 12 or 15 pair of
millstones of the usual size.
    The apparatus and the machine are on a principle and con
 struction entirely new, and are patented by the inventors here.
 It has been very expensive, and has been brought to its present
state of perfection with much labour and perseverance.
          NEWLY DISCOVERED MEMBRANE IN THE EYE.
    Doctor Jacob, demonstrator of anatomy in the university of
Dublin, has discovered, and demonstrated in his lectures on
the diseases of the eye, a membrane covering the external sur
face of the retina in man and other animals.        Its extreme de
licacy  accounts  for its not having  been hitherto noticed.      He
arrived at the discovery by means of a new method            of  dis
playing and examining the minute structure of this and other
delicate parts.    He argues from analogy, the necessity of the
existence of such a' membrane, as parts so different in structure
and functions as the retina and choroid coat, must otherwise be

             New Rifle Gun.— Atmospheric Phtsnomena.                75
in contact, in contradiction to the provisions of the animal ceco-
nomy in general.. .A detailed account of the discovery, with the
method of displaying and examining the membrane, is in prepa
ration.
                           NEW RIFLE GUN.
            [From the New-York Commercial Advertiser.]
     We have seen a new modelled rifle gun, which promises to
be of some consequence, and is said to be the invention of Capt.
Artimas Whoeler, of this town.          We have not had sufficient
 opportunity    to examine  it so minutely as to give a description of
 it that would do it justice ; we are inclined to think it a new
 and important invention, more particularly in case of an action
 with an enemy. It has one barrel through which the charges
 pass, that is.of common length ; also seven short ones not much
 longer than sufficient to contain a charge each; — these have a
 pan attached to them, to contain powder for priming, and are
kept perfectly tight by a slide that covers them. These barrels are
 made to move circularly round near the lock, which is also of
 new construction. After firing the first charge, the half cocking
 moves by a spring one of these short barrels round, and confines
  it tight in the breech end of the long barrel, through which the
 charge must pass ; the shutting the pan of the lock op'ens the
 slide which covers the priming.       This gun is but little heavier
  than the common one ; and when once loaded, which requires
  little more time than to load a common rifle, it can be fired as
  expeditiously as will be convenient to cock the piece and take
  sight, until the seven are discharged.
                      ATMOSPHERIC     PHENOMENA.
      Dr. Thomas Forster has of late noticed a pheenomenon which
  ought further to engage the attention of philosophers ; namely,
   that the moon appears on rising, particularly about the time of
   the full, to have the power of dispersing the clouds, and clearing
   the atmosphere.     He was first admonished of this circumstance
   by some French sailors while crossing the channel from Calais ;
   and it had likewise been cursorily noticed to him by Mr. Her-
   schel of St. John's Cambridge.      For some time past, whenever
   circumstances afforded an opportunity of observing clouds about
   the time of the moon's rising, they have shortly been much di
   minished in volume, or wholly evaporated.         This fact is best
   observed in the neighbourhood of the sea, and seems to be less re
   markable in very inclined situations. The circumstance is slightly
   hinted at by Aristotle, and the early writers on meteorology.      It
   shows the power of light on the phenomena of the atmosphere.
                                                                   LIST

                              C   76     3
             LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
    To John Neilson, of Linlithgow, glue manufacturer, for im-
provements in the tanning and tawing of hides and skins, and In
the dyeing or colouring of leather and other articles. — 22d June
 1818. — 6 months allowed to enrol specification.
    To Robert Roux, of Yverdon, in the canton of Vaud, in Swit-»
zerland, Doctor in Divinity, in consequence of a communication
made to him by a certain foreigner residing abroad, for improve
ment or improvements applicable to locks of different descrip
tions. — 30th June. — 2 months.         ,
    To John Baird, manager for the new Shotts Iron Company,
residing in the parish of Shotts, county of Lanark, Scotland, for
various improvements in the manufacturing and making of cast-
iron boilers used for the purpose of evaporating the juice of the
sugar-cane, or syrup derived from thence, by means of annealing
them in a furnace or kiln of a peculiar construction.— 1 1th July*
— 4 months.
    To William Bailey, of High Holborn in the county of Middle
sex, ironmonger, for improvements in sashes, sky-lights, and
frames, generally used for the purpose ot receiving, holding, and
containing glass for the admission of light, and the exclusion of
rain and snow, and also for making roofs or coverings for houses
and various other buildings. — 1 Ith July. —6 months.
    To James Milton, late of Paisley, but now of Ashton-nnder-
 Line in the county of Lancaster, for a new species of loom-
 work, whereby figures or flowers can be produced, in a mode hi
 therto unknown, upon any fabric of cloth while in the process of
weaving, whether such fabric be linen, cotton, woollen, silk, or
 any of them intermixed.— 1 1th July.— 2 months.
    To John Richter, of Holloway, in the county of Middlesex,
 in consequence of a communication made to him by a certain
 foreigner residing abroad, for certain improvements in the ap
 paratus or utensils used for distillation, evaporation and condensa
 tion, and which are new in this country.— 14th July. — 6 mon.
    To Richard Ormrod, of Manchester, in the county palatine
 of Lancaster, ironfounder, for improvements in the manufacturing
 of copper or other metal cylinders or rollers for calico printing,
 — 22d July. — 4 months.
     To Urbanus Sartoris, of Winchester-street in the city of Lon
 don, merchant, for improvements in the method of producing ig
 nition in fire-arms hy the condensation of atmospheric air.—?
  22d July. — 6 months.
     To Henry Creighton, of Glasgow, civil engineer, for a new me*
  thod of regulating the admission of steam into pipes or other
 vessels used for the heating of buildings or other places. — 22d
  July,— 2 months.
                                                             Meleoro

                                      Meteorology.                              f$
Meteorological           Journal kept at. IValthamstow, Essex, from.
 «T                        June 15 to July 15, 1818.
[Usually between       the Hours of Seven and Nme A.M. and the Thermomfiter
                                                                                ° 'J
                 (a second time) between Twelve and Two P.M.]
Date. Therm. Baroin. Wind.                                                    -  ^
June                                                                     -. -[
 15       1G     30 00      SE— SW— W.— Clear morn, but some stratus
          75                   NW. and cirrostralus ; fine day; red orange
                               sunset ; moon in a small corona, and clear,
                               and cirrus in rays upwards.
 16       66 30-00 SW. — Sun, and very hot ; windy and hot sun;
          74                    cirrostralus, and clear at night.
 17 "65          29-81      S—SE.— Clouds and windy; 8 A.M. a small
        •
  _ .      77                   shower ; clouds and sun ; small rain after
                                3 P.M. ; still rain, but slight.
 IS 57 29-75 N.-7-Fine mom; sun and clouds; calm; some
                                slight rain after 4 P.M.; windy; clear, and
      •
           75
                                cirrostralus. Full moon.
  19 53          29-75        S. — Fine morn ; wind, clouds, and sun cooler;
   .'      70                   frequent small rain after 3 P.M.; cirra-
                                stratuSf and windv evening.
 20 55 2970 W — NW.— Sun arid cumuli; slight shower*,
  :
                                and sun till about 6 P.M.; fine evening; clear*
   ....
           67
                                 cirrostralus, and calm.                          '!
  21       56     30-00 SW. — Sun and wind; cumuli, cirrus, and
           70                    cirrostratus ; fine day; some small drops of
                                 rain ; cloudy and windy.
  22       57     30-00       SW—W.—        Showers; cloudy; fine day; a great
           63                    shower about 4 P.M. ; star-light at 1 1 P.M."
  23       56     29•80 W. — Cumuli, sun and wind ; clouds and sun ;
           67                    cirrus ; cloudy night.
   24 57 30-00                W — NW. — Fine morn; cirrus, cumuli, and
           72                    cirrostratus; fine day; windy; clear; clouds
                                 and wind.
   25      56 30-10           W- — Gray morn ; fine sunny windy day; clear"
            71                   and cirrostratus.    Moon last quarter.
   26      62     30-00       W—SW—S.— Gray morn; clouds, wind, and
                                                                            ' -       -
            73                    sun ; very clear night.
   ~7      62 30-00 SE — E. — Hot sun, and cirrocumuli ; clouds;
    .       S4              ,     sun very hot; black cirrus at S{ P.M.
    : •
    2S 63          29 70
                                                                ...
                                  hanging over cirrostralus like fringe; clear
                                  cirrus and cirrostratus.
                               SW—NW.— Showers, sun and wind ; great
                                                                                     "I
            70                    shower between 12 and 1 P.M.; showers
                    "
    v -:       ,                  and   sun; distant thunder; fine evening j.
                                  streaked cirrostratus NW.          ,-.
    29      59 30•10 SW—W                    Sun, cumuli, and [wind; fine day;
     •
            76                     clear night,

  78                            Meteorology.
  Date. Therm. Barom. Wind.
  30    60    30-20   N—SW — NW. — Hot sun; fine hot day;
        80               calm; clear night; a little wind arisen.
  July
    1   62   30-20   NW—W.— Fine          hot sun; calm; fine day; at
        79               8 A.M. small thunder cloud;     some drops of
                        rain  ; black nimbus at 9j P.M.; and after
                        wards cirroslratus .
    2   61   30•10   Sun and wind; very fine day; cooler; clear
        72              and cirrostratus, and wind.
   3    59   30-20   EhyS—NW.— Sunshine, and clear at 7 A.M
                        at 9 A.M. hazy; fine day; clear and cirro-
                        stratus.     New moon.
   4   61    30'05   NW.    —   Cirrostratus and wind ; fine day; clear
        72              star-light and wind.
   5   62    30' 10  NW. — Clear sunshine; fine very hot day;
       76               windy ; clear night.
   6   67    30-10   N—E—SW.— Fine and hot; fine hot day;
       79              windy.
   7   83    30-10   SE — E.— Hot sun; calm; fine day; very hot;
       80               clear and cirroslrattis.
   8   61    29-90   N — NW. — Sunshine; fine day; stars, moon,
       69               and cirrostratus.
   9   60    30-10  W. — Clear and cirrostratus ; fine day; cloudy
       76              at night.
 10    66   50-10   S—SW—S.— A slight shower before 7 A.M. ;
       71              sun and wind; fine day, and hot; clear
                       moon-light.
 11    66   30-10   NE—N—W—SW—NW.—                   Sun and clouds;
       74              fine day; rain began soon after 9 P.M. —
                       Moon first quarter.
 12         29-S5   SW— NW.— Rainy; rain till about 11 A.M.;
                       afterwards fine day; very hot; cirrostratus
                      and windy.
 13         29'SO   NW. — Clouds, and wind, and some drops of
                       rain; fine day; great wind and cuntulii
                      moon-light.
 14   66    30-20   W—N—E.— Fine morn; calm; fine hot day;
      77              Thermometer 80 at 3| P.M.; black nimbus,
                      and clear at 9 P.M.; at 10 P.M. fine mot
                      tled cirrocumuli, and stars.
15    63    30-30   N— SE. — Sun       and wind; very hot; clear and
      80              cumuli; fine day; very hot and windy;
                      moon- and star-light (clear) .
    During the very dry weather the birds came to be fed near
the windows, almost as near as in frosty weather in winter.
                                                            METEORO-

                                  Meteorology.                              79
          METEOROLOGICAL JOURNAL KEPT AT BOSTON,
                                 LINCOLNSHIRE.
     [The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at    1 P.M.]
           Age   of
   1818      the    Thermo     Baro    state of the Weather and    Modification
           Moon      meter.    meter.             of the Clouds.
           DAYS.
June   16     13      75-       30-01  Fine
       17     14      63-       29-79  Rain
       18   fall      66-       29•88  Fine
       19     16      70•       29-86 Cloudy
       20     17      se        29-69 Rain                          .  •
       81     IS      es-       30 01 Cloudy — rain P.M.
       22     19      66-       29-77 Ditto — rain A.M.
       23    20       64-5      29-94 Ditto
       84    21       65-       30-08 Ditto
       23    22       73•       3002 Fine — shower A.M.
       26     23      73•       30-17  Cloudy
       97     24      78-       29-32  Fine
       88     25      70-       29-89  Ditto
       29     26       70-      30-29  Cloudy
       30     27       79-5     30-32  Fine
  July l      28      65-       30-15  Rain
         2    29       65-      30-24   Fine
         S new         68-      30-27   Cloudy
         4      ]      68-5     30-12   Ditto
         5      2      71-      30-16   Ditto
         6      3      73«5      30-20  Ditto
         7      4      76-       30-03  Very fine
         8      5      65-       29-94  Cloudy
         8      6      70-       30-22 Very fine
        10       7     74-       30-11 Ditto — rain P.M.
        11       8     74-       30-01 Ditto
        19      9      11-5      29-89 Cloudy — rain at night
        13     10      69-       30-06 Ditto
        14     11       75-      30-33 Very fine
                            •
           I        1         1         »
    On the   few days marked rain there fell only showers, the effects of which
  were gone in three hours, except on Sunday night, when there was a heavy
  rain of three or four hours continuance.
                                                                      MJSTEORO

                                     Meteorology.
                            METEOROLOGICAL                   TABLE,
                        By Mb. Cary, of the Strakd,
                               For July 1818.
                                                                                           —.
                                                              '    Cfl
                     Thermometer.
                                                             r\    — >u
     Dnys of        u
                    a
                        a
                                       lock,
                                      lit.
                                                Height of
                                               the Barom.
                                                             oJ          g
                                                                                      Weather.
                                                                         r
I
                                                                   >»
                                                                   a 0
     Month.         P   E
                            §
                                                 Inches.     2 £   »     So
                    o m
                    CO**             r-i                    0      bW
                                     68        20-75               78         Fair
      June    27    68      84
              28    66      74       62           •92              56         Showery-
                    66      76       68        30.18               86         Fair
              29
              30    65      80       66           •19         105             Fair
                            80                    •10              84         Fair
       July   1     66               65
              2     60      71       57           •03              72         Fair
                                                                              Fail-
                                                                                                 -
                    60      75       60           •10              76
              4 3                    60           •04              70         Fair
                    61      76
                    66      77       66           •01              66         Fair               l
              6 5   66               64           •03              70         Fair
                            78
               7    68      75       64        29-90               80         Fail-
                    64      76       59           •94              69         Fair           -
              9 8                                                             Fair               -'
                    60      75       66        30-00               78
              10     67     72       60           •01              66         Cloudy            _
              1
              1      67     76       66         2Q-85              78         Fair, rain at night.
              12     60     74       64           •75              60         Fair
              13     66     76        64          •96              56         Fair
              14     67     78        71        30.17              66         Fair
              15     67     79        66          •27              86         Fair
             '16     68     85        70          •16             102         Fair
              17     68     76        65          •10              80         Fair
                                                                                           °
              18     67     76        64          •04              76         Fair
              IS 69         80        64        29-90              85         Fair
              20     66     76        C4          •91              81         Fair
              21     66     75        66          •91              66         Cloudy         °
              22     67     76        68        30-00              74         Fair
              23     •38    82        76          •01              91         Fair
              24     76     87        72        29•79              95         Fair*                -
              2.5    70     80        67          •so              86         Fair           1
              £6     67     80        68          •80              79         Fair
                                                                                      1
                                                                                .      1
       * Very vivid lightning in the evening, with distant thunder                         ja   snjali.^aH.
    of rain during the night     .
                  N.B. The Barometer's height taken at one o'clock.
                                                        is                                               .

                                              C
                                                   si        ]
            XII.    On the Fructification of Seeds.               By Mrs. Agnes
                                     Ibbetson.
                                         To   Mr. TillocL
    Sir, —         I
                 showed in my last letter the formation of the hearts
    of seed in the roots of a plant. I showed also its progress up the
    alburnum vessels, and its entrance into the bag of the seed, the
    contour of the bag being really formed of that line of life which
    ties the hearts of the seeds together as they mount from the root.
    See fig.       1.
        I             given many specimens of the manner in which
            have before
  the seeds are half filled by the juices of the atmosphere ; then
  completed by a powder flowing upwards from the root; — there
    Istopped.   I' shall now give the next process, which always fbl-
  lows directly ; Viz. " the fructification of the seeds;" that          the                     is,
  conveying the powder of the pollen when dissolved              the juices           in
  of the pistil clown to the seeds, allowing each vessel to enter each
  different seed, and bestow its quantum of matter on all            turns.                 by
  This' takes place as soon as the seed has received all that which
  may be called its nutriment; and            so different from the fol
                                                        is
  lowing process, that there          no fear of confounding them to
                                              is
  gether.' This last operation takes place as soon as. the flower                                       is
  full blown, and therefore arrived at its greatest perfection. The
  nectareous juice       then seen
                              is       the naked eye to mount the
                                                  by                                                   pi
  stil, and settle        large drop on the stigma
                             in   a                    this     doth each
                                                                      :           it
  sunny day; and even          the flower
                                      if     turned downwards, (like a
                                                        is
  campanula,) still the drop appears to hang and never to fall, but
 returns within the style down the pistil, into the secret nectary,
 where      remains all night, and reappears next morning in the
             it
 same situation on the stigma till the pollen           ripe; when, the
                                                                      is
 dust falling on the stigma, the various apertures thus impressed
"receive and secure          and    remains there visibly till
                                   it,     it                         com              it   is
 pletely dissolved.
     That any one should deny the sexual system, who has regu
  larly dissected flowers and plants (especially done progressively)
                                                                 if                                     ,
    can never believe. That the pistil
    1                                         formed to receive and re
                                                         is
  duce the flower of the pollen, which clings to               and that         it,                    it
 then carries the mixt juice down to the little branch           the heart            in
 of the seed, vivifying and exciting its growth,— certainly true           is                           :
 and let the different figures of the flower be ever so various in
 this respect,      will be exactly the same in its result.
                        it                                      This con-
 stant progress take place, and the- whole progressive move
'
 ments succeed each other in constant routine.            Nor can con                       I
 ceive how botanists could reconcile the doubt they made with
 respect to the trough in the style and stigma, and therefore to
     Vol. 52. No. 24-1. Aug. 1818.                                F       its

82                    On the Fructification       of Seeds.
 its conveying down the joint juices of the pollen and pistil mat
 ters, when they saw and acknowledged the rising of the juice of
 the pistil to the stigma in that beautiful drop before impregna
 tion.   Would not the same trough serve the purpose for the fall
 ing liquid, that it did for the rising one ? And yet all botanists
 acknowledge the first, but many deny the last, and believe that
 there is room for the pistil juice, and not for the same when the
 pollen powder is dissolved in    it, though the style     then infinitely
                                                               is
increased and inflated.
    The flower, let be ever so various
                      it                      in
                                              appearance,       invariable
                                                                     is
 in having the summit and style         (if
                                         it   has any) above the seed-
vessel (see fig. 2)   ; and in these parts being in one connected
 pillar with  the  secret  nectary; while the open nectary         always is
 at the exterior of the pillar, but standing perfectly aloof.        If the
stamens appear united with the pistil,        it only soiO appearance
                                                   is                                 ;
 they are never fastened but to     a   skin which       connected with
                                                          is
 the cylinder below, and carries on the vessels of the stamen to
 the wood part, and only lies against the pistil.             Such      the     is
 stamen of theq Auilegia, (see fig. 3,) and the stamens of the
Malva and Viola, &c. which         I    have not room to give.         The
pistilis  then unconnected with every other part, but those just
mentioned. The stamens when ripe throw their pollen                  many  by
different methods on the stigma. The various forms of the pistil
proclaim that    it  was made to receive, secure and dissolue the
powder    so  bestowed.      The stigma      either covered with innu
                                             is
merable short thick hairs, which to the eye give              the appear
                                                                it
ance of velvet, but when greatly magnified, show that each vessel
has several apertures to take in the powder, while the points se
cure the balls of the stamen, till they burst with the moisture of
the pistil.     The dust   is then received into these innumerable
apertures, which empty themselves into the interior in a gutter,
which runs all down the style to the seeds.
    Butif   the stigma, instead of resembling the pistil of the Co
lumbine,    is like the flower of some of the Tetradynamia silicu-
losa order, then the stigma swells above, so as to overtop the
style, as in the Uteris Erysimum, (fig. 4.) &c. while the nume
rous corresponding apertures take in the powder at                     and
                                                                      d
                                                                      d
                                                                      d,
send it  when dissolved down to the seeds, (see fig.                In the
                                                                    4 )
 Chelidonium,    a  gutter is carried] round below the surface, which
receives all the juice the hairs bring        it,
                                               as at fig. 5.          (a
                                                                      a)re      in
gular rows; and the whole centre        is one deep trench in the mid
dle, by  which, there being no style, the juice          at once carried
                                                         is
in three regular cuts down to the seeds.           In  the  Cheirantkus,
the seed-vessel being      a  sort of flattened triangle (fig.          the2)  ;
summit a'    2   XX has a bending in the middle the large orifice
   therefore in the centre only: while at fig.
                                                        2.
is                                                      a
                                                        a    the summit
                                                               is                     ;
                                                                                     bJb

                  On the Fructification of Seeds.                   83
I   b the seed-vessel ; cc the hidden nectary; dd the rising up of
the hearts of the    seeds before they enter the seed-vessel, and.
place themselves at e e in the seed.
    The next sort of pistil is that which opens the stigma into
various divisions.     This most simply declares its office, since the
pistil never divides till the pollen balls are ready to explode..
This is seen in the Iris, where the powder or dust is discovered all,
the way down the passage (fig. 5. e e e,) beginning to pass into
it at dd. No pistil so puzzled the botanist at first as the Iris.
It was long disputed which was the female: but nothing is so
easy as fixing on that part, as it is always the middle pillar, (see
fig. 5.) 1 1 the seed-vessel ; c c the secret nectary ; <r a the
stigma; and g g the style which conveys the joint juices in three
rows to the seeds.      In many of the stigmas formed in this man
ner, there appears no opening till just before the whole is con
cluded and that the stigma is covered with balls, as at B C :
then, if carefully watched, the stamens will be seen to burst one
after the other, so as to surround the stigma with a sort of cloud;
and this is almost always at noon.        This accounted to me for
a beautiful sight I never saw but twice, though I have often
watched for it — the flowing of the pollen in a field of rye-grass.
A cloud came on, which at first I could not understand, and fell on
the female flower and leaves around. I had just come for the pur
pose of examining whether the seeds were fructified : I found they
were not; but two days after when taken up,the line of life appeared
along the heart and seed, and the seed-leaf had begun to grow.
In many stigmas that divide, the stamens fall so completely into
the aperture which the separation has made, as to be themselves
dissolved and sent down the style to the seeds.         Authors have
said that it is strange that the dust of the pollen is never disco
vered in the passage, and that it never tints with its colour the
interior of the style. But this is certainly a great mistake, for
 I have repeatedly seen it do so. I have just mentioned a proof
of this ; and the Rhododendron is another instance where the
passage is so open that the balls enter and are soon absorbed,
and the juice carried down to the seeds.          But in general the
cases of the pollen are taken for the powder itself ; the inward
dust is rarely of any other colour than a very light green or
very pale yellow, though the cases are often highly painted: and
this faint tint is so like the appearance of the juices, that it would
produce no change on them if mixed.           But when this proves
different, the interior of the style gets often coloured, as is seen
in the tulip; in which though the pollen is a very pale green,
yet the stamens are almost black, and often mix their colour with
it,  and thus paint the interior of the style.     This also happens
to the yellow Iris, where the coloured     stamens   impress their tint
                              F   2                             within

     81                On the Fructification   of Seeds.
     within the passage of" the three leaves, which I have repeatedly
    discovered deeply tinted, though affected principally by means of
    the outward skin of the stamen, which in the rubbing has got
    mixed with the pollen powder.
        The first thing to be assured of, is the mark which proves
    that the seed is really perfected. This sign is most plain, and is
    the same in every seed, never varying.       It is a line which passes
    through the heart and seed, and then out again, touching that
    little branch which the corculum brought from the root with a
    sort of loop ; the vessel then runs to the next seed, and so on,
    (see fig. 6.) gg are the seeds before impregnation, li h after.
    It will be seen that at i i i the heart has not yet risen to the top
    of the seed, where it must get before the line can pass. There
    are often many stigmas and styles to one seed-vessel: the num
    ber of divisions is proportionate ; — but this I shall leave till
    I  come to show the pericarp, as the cause of this arrangement
   is exquisitely beautiful ; formed and adapted by nature for the
 .purpose of diminishing the space required, and secreting and
   confining in as little room as many seeds as possible.          The art
   with which this is done (though the seeds change their form
   three or four times) is most wonderful, and the deal of space
   left to give them free liberty can never be enough admired; some
  requiring to lay a part of their time in liquid, when the seeds are
  left quite in a trough, which they only fill up with solid matter
  when their outward cases grow. The manner in which the mid
  dle pillar of the flower is left, — at such perfect liberty that it may
  have room for every motion, and for every increase, and also to
  admit the insect to seek the open nectary, — also merits particular
  observation.      But the astonishing care that has been taken to
  prevent the possibility of its approaching the secret nectary can
  not be sufficiently admired; as that would at once be robbing the
  flower of its future perfect seed, by preventing its impregnation.
  I have repeatedly placed the pollen on different stigmas, to show
 exactly the time the seeds will be in receiving this appearance,
 shown at fig. 6, h h.       Few seeds require more than three days ;
 the stone plants will, indeed, sometimes require a fortnight or
 three weeks, but rarely more : it is a great mistake to suppose
 that so much time is necessary. When the whole js performed, a
 total suspension of action takes place till the seed gets buried
in the ground.       The earth then forms a new stimulus. ButseetN
will rarely pass beyond a certain point till they fall ; and the in
terior of the seed always begins to grow two or three days at
furthest after the line has passed up the seed, because the oxygen
they directly yield is absolutely necessary to the growth of the
embryo, which is now increasing most wonderfully.
      The idea of- the sccd-lcaf yielding food instead of gas was the
                                                                     most

                  On the Fructification    of Seeds.                85
most strange and contradictory imaginable; since the nourishing
vessels are visibly made for the latter purpose ; but leaves from
the first moment yield their oxygen, as may be known by their
dissection.   As to the manner of the impregnation of the seeds,
I have tried them in almost every class and order, but never dis
covered any difference in this respect.     But I am now trying in
different sets of plants whether they vary in any way j such as
fresh-water plants, sea-weeds, sand-weeds, &c.
    In my next letter I shall give the progressive passage after the
impregnation of a plant to its growth in the earth, with all
the intervening steps, never before shown, and most truly cu
rious.
   It is always better, for dissection, to trust to the indigenous or
flowers of the country; it is certain that, the spiral not being so
perfect in exotics, its functions are not performed so well.           I
have now before me above forty different sorts of pistils, but they
all proclaim the same law and mode of proceeding.          The stigma
of the Pentavdria digynia plant is a very curious one, formed
of bubbles, which visibly show the absorption of the powder and
its reduction into the juices which tint the interior, through
the trough of the style (tee fig. 9) ; as is also the pistil of the
 Gleclkoma (fig. 9X), which has long hairs, to which the baUs
 adhere till they explode, yielding their extremely fine dust by a
sudden apparent electrical effect, when the absorption takei
place, and it is quick and immediate.
    It is quite a mistake of Gaertner to say, that when barren and
fertile seeds are mixed together in the same seed-vessel, the
whole becomes nugatory. There is no seed-vessel that has not
both sorts in the same pericarpium; but they are imperfect from
different causes, easily perceived : from the heart not reaching
the seed, — from the seed not being impregnated; that                is,
the line of life not passing through the corculum, — from the
nourishment dying away before        itcan reach the seed.        Every
seed-vessel shows at first manv seeds, even those that never per
fect but one or two. This       is  admirably seen       the chesimr,
                                                        in
which almost always has six when the pericarp       is under the bud  ;
they go off  by degrees, and at last one or two only are completed.
As to the proof that the mixture of the pollen     is the cause of the
impregnation     of the  seeds, let  the evidence   be  only fairly ex
amined, and no one can disbelieve it.        A   bed of female plants
of the dioicous tribe has been set, and kept from the approach of
staminiferous flowers, and perfect seeds have notwithstanding
been got from it.     This has been brought forward as proof of
                                                             a
the Jalsehood of the sexual system, — without the female plants
being examined, to see whether there were not males concealed
                                 F   3                           among

 86                  On  the  Fructification of Seeds.
  among them, which is almost always the case. This at once
 renders that trial nugatory.        Then it must be recollected that
 most flowers can be impregnated from pollen of the same species.
 This is another cause of uncertainty.         The only true method,
  therefore, is trying those plants that never produce, or will bear
 this mode of management; among whose pistils male plants are
 never found, and that cannot be impregnated from other pollen
 than their own.       There are a few of these:         The Palms, the
 Pistachio nut, the Fig, and two or three more. These have been
 for years without producing fruit, on the failure of the male
 plant. 1 had a complete proof of this, which I shall give, as it
 is in vain to repeat Linnaeus's excellent trials, wlrich are in every
 botanical book. When I was at Lisbon, in passing to the Caul-
 ders, about half way I came to a village, where there were at
 that time many female palm-trees and no male, but in the mid
 dle of each tree was placed a branch of the male. I inquired
 the reason. The man told me he had planted manv, and chose
them wrong from ignorance, and for years they had given no
 fruit, as there were then no palms on this side of Lisbon ; but
'his children going to Lisbon brought a branch of the male palm,
and stuck it in the tree, and that tree gave fruit. The next year
 he had therefore performed the same to each, and had always a
 quantity of dates.
    At Belle Vue I planted a female Juniper ; and it never had
 fruit, though there were many male plants within two miles: but
 it was placed on a remarkably high hill, where the winds blew
 with violence.     After many years experiment I wished to try
 a male plant, and placed it near; and I had fruit very soon after,
 within two years I think. As to the Fig, it is the only flower
 that appears to me truly to be made for the insect to do the
-office, since both parts are confined in a receptacle which is laid
 open at the proper time. When the insect Cynips enters the
 niale Fig, it rolls itself in the pollen, then flies to the female, and
 deposits the powder all round the aperture which nature makes
at this time in both fruits. Here at the entrance it inserts its own
 eggs, and leaves the pollen all round the orifice, which is soon
 conveyed to the stigma by means of the juice of the pistils, which
 almost overflow the receptacle with their liquid.
     By what means will the pollen of the Primula veris, thrown
 on the Primula vulgaris, make a Cowslip of it the next year,
 though that flower is so rare in this county of Devon, — and that
 degenerate and return to its original species, if the trial is not
 repealed? Why will the pollen of the Sweet purple Pea, thrown
 on a number of white ones, give seed the next year that will
 bestow a pretty equal number of both colours, and some varie
                                                                  gated ?

                    On the Fructification of   Seeds.               87
 gated   ? Why is the syngenesian flower capable of receiving the
juice of the pistil, which rims up and often even covers the seeds
 below, without any effect ? — but when it descends with the flower
of the stamen, and runs into the seeds with the joint juices,
 why are the seeds directly impregnated ?        If the pollen had no
 effect, how could all this happen ?       But of all the seeds, none
will perhaps show the whole process more completely than the
 Fragaria (fig. 10), especially at the    seed fig. 11 X:  a a is the
 stigma and style ; b b the heart of the seed, which rises from the
toot of the plant; cc the ascent and descent of the juices from
the corculum; d d d is the juice first ascending to the stigma;
 and ee is the liquid running from the style to the heart of the
seed, and carrying the mixed juice : therefore in this seed there
 is a separate vessel ; and one peculiarly adapted to convey the
 powder and juice through the heart, showing that the pistil juices
could not do it. Fig. 10 is the seed-vessel, and ddd the part
 which conveys the corculums up to each seed. I have drawn it
 completely as it appears, and as a half-guinea glass can show it.
 As to the idea that the embryo is formed in the male or sta
 mina, it is most ridiculous; for it is far smaller than the embryo
 of the seed. Besides, I have shown by a progressive picture, that
 the beginning of the seed proceeds directly from the root, and
 that it must be the right part — the real embryo — since it is
 never lost sight of till fructified ; this part may therefore be as
 well called an egg till it has joined its seed.
     When 1 said that I knew but of one flower that appeared
 really to want the assistance of insects, I only meant that na
 ture had made them perfect, but the change of climate had al
 tered them : — many exotics that would go on increasing their fi»
 laments, are stopped by the alteration of climate, and the
 weakness of the muscle.       It is sometimes the case with our own
 flowers in bad seasons ; and in watching, how continually have I
  seen innumerable flowers bend clown their pistils with a jerk to
 procure the powder of the stamen!          In many of the Lily tribe,
  I have caught them when bending with a sudden jerk, which had
 much the appearance of an electrical effect or shock,— such as
  the pistil of the Orange Lily, or the Hemerocullis fulva, the
  large white Lily. I have seen the single Camilla Japonica (the
  pistil of which is sometimes prolonged much beyond the stamen)
  bend down and sweep the pollen of each stigma in its turn, till it
  loaded itself with powder. I have also seen in like manner the
  AmaryllisJacobcea bend down and make each stigma take its share
  of the powder : but this moves gently along after the reception of
  the powder, and not with a jerk.       How curiously in the Winter
  Rose will the stamens (though they all lie around) raise them
  selves, and turn so many at a time in a contrary direction,
                                   F  4                          while

 8.S                             On the relative Powers        of Algebra
  while in the Geranium, the pistil is marie to bend by the fila
  ments twisting round her!        How beautifully does the Spartiuvt
jnnceum throw off its keel, that the pistil may have room to
 sweep round, and turn its points to the spreading stamens, which
 pass between each ! I have watched this, flower after flower, with
 admiration : for the manner in which it first throws back the
 banner is most curious ; the wings then           apart, and the inward
                                                                 fly
 motion of the keel becomes perceptible            when the sun striking
                                                                ;
 full on        flies open, and the stamens disperse some of their
               it,   it
 powder. Now at full liberty, the boxes of the stamen open, and
 the pistil turns round, and one after the other presses between
 the two points of the stigma, and thus loads           with powder.       it
      Imust now stop        My letter  :   already too long.
                                                         is     Fig.                       7   is
 the interior of the flower of the Aqu'degia vulgaris, to show how
 the hearts of the seeds pass up the stem to the seed-vessel and
 seeds at          and how the juice passes up from the secret nec
                    e
                    e       e,
 tary     a
          ato the stigma bbb, and the pollen up the vessels                                 g  g
 to the stamen^/"        Fig.    f.   single pericarpium and stigma at
                                           8    is   a
 top. Fig.          the interior pillar of the Iris, &c. The rest
                        5   is                                       be*               I
 lieve   have already explained.
          I
                          am, sir, your obliged servant,
                                  J
                                                                           Agnes Ibbetson.
                                                     '
                               Description    Plate II. No.
                                                 of                         8.
   Fig.       9     is      the stigma of the Ground Ivy    the pollen powder
                                                                       ;
within the balls enters the diminutive                           holes, when dissolved.
At     a
       a       in
      Fig.   one of those stigmas which are so much larger than the
             4
             is
style,  and have  a gutter running round at      a, and descending  a  a
also at      to the style.
              4 h
                    b
   Fig.    X the stigma of the Pentandria digynia plant and
                         is                                                            ;
  cc the hairs at which the mixed juices enter the stigma:      has                    it
a c
  glitter all round, and one through the middle.
   Fig.      3the manner in which the stamens loosely surround
                    is
the pistil when          supposed to be fastened to it.
                                 it   is                     and                   B        C
two more stigmas.
   The seeds, fig.         and fig.7  X are the shape of the seeds
                                                         2
                                                         c
                                                         c
at that time, both impregnated,
XIIIj         On. the Comparative               Powers    of  Algebra and Vulgar Arith*
                        mtlic.        By William Gutteridge, Esq.
                                           To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir,-As     you will no doubt acknowledge that in a commercial
country like ours, the true principles pf calculation should be
                                                      thoroughly

                       and Vulgar Arithmetic.                      89
thoroughlyunderstood     and profoundly taught, I feel persuaded that
you will permit me, through the medium of your Magazine, to
express my disapprobation of the present method, which prevails
in the public seminaries throughout the united kingdom, of
solving such questions as relate to mixing of merchandises, as
rums, wines, &c. commonly termed Alligation, which, save the
 medial case, is in all respects very abstruse, frequently false,
 and generally detrimental to the merchant.       Nay more, indeter
minate equations (of which questions in Alligation are a species)
are in works of the greatest celebrity very frequently most erro
neously solved, where the great power of algebra in the present
mode of application is insufficient to demonstrate the truth ;
whilst, if rightly handled, vulgar arithmetic is abundantly suffi
cient to obtain all the integral answers to such questions.
    That this is not on my part a mere assertion, but a well-
grounded fact, I shall adduce, for the satisfaction of the public,
a most glaring instance, which may be found in that well-known
 work, Dcdson's Mathematical Repository, where, vol. ii. ques
tion XII. page 39, we read as follows :
    " Let 2.r+3y+5z + 30w= 100003," the number of integral
 answers (see fol. 44) are stated to be " 160,190,378,249."
    Now, sir, you will give me leave to state, that the actual
 number of integral equivalent answers to that equation are just
 185,090,752,407; therefore the error in Dodson's computation
is 24,900,374,158 answers too few. And you will also give me
leave to state, that such erroneous computation arises not from
 accident, but from the adopted method of solution.
    Authors have uniformly avowed that vulgar arithmetic would
not obtain all the possible answers to questions of this sort, and
that algebraic reasoning was indispensable. I am ready to prove
the contrary, and to show that arithmetic is not only equal, but
infinitely superior, in all cases of alternation.
    Errors equally glaring are to be found in the algebra of the
                                                                 '
celebrated Bonnycastle, who, so recently as his 7th edition of that
great art, fails in some of these equations.      And, what is more
extraordinary,   the ingenious  Mr.  Davis's   Key to that celebrated
work corresponds with the author's errors; — a proof of the ne
 cessity of adopting a different system, whereby the truth may bo
discovered.                                                           •
    To enter into sufficient detail would engross too many page-;
of your Magazine ; for I am well aware, that in instances where
errors have become habitual, nothing short of an elaborate pro
 cess can possibly convince.      I shall therefore content myself,
for the present, with a general disapproval of the inadequacy of
that system universally prevailing ; but should any gentreman
                                                                think

 90   An Account of Experiments for        determining     the Length  of
think proper to dispute the accuracy of my foregoing computa
tion, or the justice of my disapproval, (and that you will be
pleased to afford me your pages as the medium,) I shall enter
without hesitation into all the minutiae of the question.
                        I am, sir,
                             Your most obedient servant,
St. Finbars, Cork, July 15, 1818.           WlLLIAM GUTTERIDGE.
XIV. An Account of Experiments for determining the Length
    of the Pendulum vibrating Seconds in the Latitude of London.
    By Capt. Henry Kater, F.R.S.*
To     determine the distance between the point of suspension and
centre of oscillation of a pendulum vibrating seconds in a given
latitude, has long been a desideratum in science.           Many experi
ments have been made for this purpose ; but the attention of all
who have hitherto engaged in the inquiry (excepting White-
hurst) appears to have been directed to the discovery of the
centre of oscillation.     The solution of this problem depending,
however, on the uniform density and known figure of the body
employed, (requisites difficult if not impossible to be ensured in
practice,) it is not surprising that the experiments made by dif
ferent persons should have been productive of various results.
    When I had the honour of being appointed one of the com
mittee of the Royal Society for the investigation of this interest
ing subject, I imagined that the least objectionable mode of pro
ceeding would be to employ a rod drawn as a wire, in which,
supposing it to be of equal density and diameter throughout, the
centre of oscillation, as it is well known, would be very nearly
at the distance of two-thirds of the length of the rod from the
point of suspension ; and I purposed by inverting the rod, and
taking a mean of the results in each position, to obviate any
error which might arise from a want of uniformity in density or
figure.    After numerous trials however, and as frequent disap
pointments, I was at length convinced of the impracticability of
obtaining a rod sufficiently uniform ; and I was besides aware,
that under certain circumstances errors might arise from this
cause which it would be impossible by any method to detect.
   Not feeling at all satisfied with the prospect which the use of
a rod presented, I endeavoured to discover some property of the
pendulum of which 1 might avail myself with greater probability
of success ; and I was so fortunate as to perceive one, which
       * F*om the Transactions of the Royal Society for 1818,  part i.
                                                                promised

the Pendulum vibrating Seconds in the Latitude                 of London. 9t
promised an unexceptionable result.               It is known that the cen
tres of suspension and oscillation are reciprocal ; or, in other
words, that if a body he suspended by its centre of oscillation,
its former point of suspension becomes the centre of oscillation,
 and the vibrations in both positions will be performed in equal
times.        Now the distance of the centre of oscillation from the
point of suspension, depending on the figure of the body em
ployed, if the arrangement of its particles be changed, the place
of the centre of oscillation will also suffer a change. Suppose
then a body to be furnished with a point of suspension, and an
 other point on which it may vibrate, to be fixed as nearly as can
 be estimated in the centre of oscillation, and in a line with the
 point of suspension and centre of gravity.               If the vibrations in
 each position should not be equal in equal times, they may readily
 be made so, by shifting a moveable weight, with which the body-
 is to be furnished, in a line between the centres of suspension
  and oscillation ; when the distance between the two points about
  which the vibrations were performed being measured, the length
  of a simple pendulum and the time of its vibration will at
  once be known, uninfluenced by any irregularity of density or
 figure    *.                                                                    •
                                                                                   v
      An unexceptionable principle being thus adopted for the con-
     * In the Conmissance das Temps for 1820, is an article by M. de Prony on
  a new method of regulating clocks.       At the conclusion of this article is a
  short note, in which the author adds, "J'ai propose1 en 1790 a l'Academie
  des Sciences un moyen de determiner la longueur du pendule en faisant
  osciller un pendule compose sur deux ou trois axes attaches a ce corps,
  (voyez mes Lecons de Mecanique, art. 1 107 et suivans.) II paroit qu'on a
  fait ou qu'on va faire usage de ce moyen en Angltterre." On referring to
  the Lecons de M&anique, as directed, I can perceive no hint whatever of
  the possibility of determining the length of the seconds pendulum by means
  of a compound pendulum vibrating on two axes ; but it appears that the
  method of M. de Prony consists in employing a compound pendulum having
  three fixed axes of suspension, the distances between which, and the time
 jof vibration upon each, being known, the length of three simple equiva
  lent pendulums may thence be calculated by means of formula? given for
  that purpose.      M. de Prony indeed proposes . employing the theorem of
  Huygens, of which I have availed myself, of the reciprocity of the axis of
  suspensien and that of oscillation, as one amongst other moans of simplifying
  his formulae, and says, " J'ai indiqu^ les moyens de concilier avec la condition
  alaquelle se rapportent ces formules, celle de rendrel'axe moyen le recipro-
   que de l'un dcs axes extremes; J'emploie pour les ajustemens qu'exigent
   ces diverges conditions un poids curseur dont j'ai expose les propri^tes dans
   un memoire public avec la Connoissance des Temps de 1817."          Now it ap
   pears evident from this passage, that M. de Prony viewed the theorem of
   Huygens solely with reference to the simplification of his formulae ; for, had
   he perceived that he might thence have obtained at once the length of the
   pendulum without further calculation, the inevitable conclusion must in
  stantly have followed, that his third axis and his formula; were wholly unne
  cessary,-
                                                                        struction

 92    An Account of Experiments for determining the Length of
 struction of the pendulum, it became of considerable importance
 to select a mode of suspension equally free fron. objection. Dia
mond points, spheres, and the knife edge, were each considered;
but as it was found difficult to procure diamond points suffi
 ciently well executed, the knife edge was preferred, after many
 experiments had been made with spheres, the result of which it
Inay not be useless for a moment to dwell upon.
     It is known, that if two curved surfaces be ground together
 in every possible direction, they will become portions of spheres;
 and thus a perfect sphere may be formed by grinding a ball in a
 hemispherical cup.      If a pendulum vibrate on such a sphere,
working in a conical aperture, it is evident that the centre of the
sphere will be accurately in the axis of vibration.     In trying this
method, however,      it was found that  the  friction was so consi
 derable, as to bring the pendulum to a state of rest after a few vi
 brations ; and when the friction was sufficiently diminished, by a
 contrivance which it is unnecessary todesciibe,the laleraMorce of
 the pendulum in an arc of two degrees and a half, was sufficiently
powerful to carry the ball entirely out of the socket; and it was
consequently evident, that though the arc of vibration might not
be large enough to effect tin's, it must necessarily cause the ball
in some degree to ascend the inclined plane of the aperture ;
 and this consideration induced me to abandon at once a mode
 of suspension which I should otherwise have esteemed the best
that could have been employed.
    The principal objections to the use of a knife edge, appeared
to be, the difficulty of forming it perfectly straight, and the pos
sibility that it might suffer a change of figure from wear, during
the experiments, which might introduce an error not to be de
tected.     The first of these objections I found to be perfectlv
groundless, as a knife edge can be made so as not to deviate
sensibly from a right line.     The second objection would indeed
be of weight, were the usual method of determining the time of
vibration resorted to, by comparing the pendulum with a clockj
at the distant intervals of 24 hours ; but it will hereafter appear,
that should any alteration in the form of the knife edge take
place, it must become perceptible every ninth minute ; in addi^
tion to which, I proposed to measure the distance of the knife
edges both before and after the experiments, when any change
would of course be immediately detected.
              Description of the Pendulum employed.
    The pendulum constructed upon these principles is formed of
a bar of plate brass, one inch and a half wide, and one eighth
of an inch thick. Through this bar, two triangular holes arc
made, at the distance of 39-4 inches from each other, to admit
                                                                  the.

 the Pendulum vibrating Seconds in the Latitude      of London. 93
 the knife edges.    Four strong knees of hammered brass of the
 same width as the bar, six inches long and three quarters of an
inch thick, are firmly screwed by pairs to each end of the bar,
in such a manner, that when the knife edges are passed through
 the triangular apertures, their backs may bear steadily against
 the perfectly plane surfaces of the brass kuees, which arc formed
 as nearly as possible at right angles to the bar.    The bar is cut
 of such a length, that its ends may be short of the extremities
 of the knee pieces about two inches.
    Two slips of deal 17 inches long, and of the same thickness
as the bar, are inserted in the spaces thus left between the knee
pieces, and are firmly secured there by pins and screws.      These
slips of deal are' only half the width of the bar ; they are stained
black, and in the extremity of each a small whalebone point is
inserted, for the purpose of indicating the extent of the arc of
vibration.
    A cylindrical weight of  brass, three inches and a half diame
ter, one inch and a quarter thick, and weighing about two pounds
seven ounces, has a rectangular opening in the direction of its
diameter, to admit the knee pieces of one end of the pendulum.
This weight being passed on the pendulum, is so thoroughly se
cured there by means of a conical pin fitting an opening made
through the weight and knee pieces, as to render any change
of position impossible. A second weight, of about seven ounces
and a half, is made to slide on the bar near the knife edge at the
opposite end; and this weight may bo fixed at any distance on
the bar by two screws with which it is furnished.
    A third weight, or rather slider, of only four ounces, is move
able along the bar, and is capable of nice adjustment by means of
a screw fixed to a clamp, which clamp is included in the weight.
This slider is intended to move near the centre of the bar. It
has an opening, through which may be seen divisions, each
equal to one-twentieth of an inch, engraved on the bar ; and a
line is drawn on the edge of the opening to serve as an index to
defermine the distance of the slider from the middle of the bar.
    We now come to the most important part, the knife edges.
These are made of that kind of steel which is prepared in India,
and known by the name of wootz.           Their form is triangular,
and their length one inch and three quarters.       Mr. Stodard was
so obliging as to forge them for me: they were made as hard as
possible, and tempered by immersing them merely in boiling
water.
    The knife edges were ground on a plane tool, which neces
sarilv ensured a perfectly straight edge. This was ascertained
by bringing the edge of the one in contact with the plane of the
                                                              other,

94     An  Account    of Experiments for determining the Length of
other, when, if no light was perceptible between them in any
position, it was inferred that the edge was a right line.             They
were then carefully fmished on a plane green hone, giving them
such an inclination as to make the angle on which the vibrations
are performed about 120 degrees.
    Previously to the knife edges being hardened, each was tapped
half way through, near the extremities, to receive two screws,
which being passed through the knee pieces, drew the knife
edges into close contact with them, the surfaces of both having
been previously ground together to guard against any strain
which might injure their figure.
                   The Support, and other Apparatus.
    The support of the pendulum consists of           a piece of bell metal
six   inches  long,  three  inches   wide,   and three-eighths of an inch
thick. An opening          is  made     longitudinally   through half the
length of the piece, to admit the pendulum, and the bell metal
is cast with a rectangular elevation on each side of the opening
extending the whole length of the piece.             Two plates of agate*
were cemented to this elevated part, beds having been made to
receive them, in order that their surfaces might be in the same
plane with that of the bell metal.            The whole was then ground
 perfectly flat.     A frame of brass is attached by two opposite
screws, which serve as centres, to the sides of the elevated part
 of the support; and one end of this frame being raised or der
 pressed by means of a screw, the pendulum when placed with its
knife edge resting in Ys, at the other end of the frame, could be
elevated entirely above the surface of the agate, or be gently
lowered until the knife edge rested wholly upon it; and thus the
knife edge was sure to bear always precisely on the same part of
the agate plane, by elevating the Ys above its surface, placing
the knife-edge in them, and then letting down the whole gently
by means of the screw, till the Ys were completely clear of the
knife edge. The support was firmly screwed to a plank which
will hereafter be described.
    To the kindness of Henry Browne, Esq. F.R.S., I am essen
tially indebted for the success of the experiments which form the
subject of this paper.        He most obligingly allowed me the use
of his house, his excellent time-pieces, and transit instrument,
assisting me with indefatigable zeal by his very accurate daily
observations, and intermediate comparisons for determining the
rate of the clock.       The house is substantially built, and is situ-
   *° Plates of hard steel were first tried, but were found to have suffered
penetration by the knife edge.
                                                                       ated

the Pendulum vibrating Seconds      in the Latittide of London.   95
ated in a part of Portland Place not liable to much disturbance
from the passing of carriages.      The room in which the experi
ments were made is the last of two on the ground floor, commu
nicating with each other and facing the north.        The tempera
ture consequently is very steady, and, if necessary, may be raised
to any given degree by a fire in the first room.     The clock with
which the pendulum was compared was made by Arnold ; and
in addition to the gridiron compensation for temperature, its
pendulum is suspended by a spring, the strength of which is so
adjusted, that the vibrations in different arcs are performed in
equal times.     This clock is firmly screwed to the wall, in a re
cess opposite to the window.       Near to this, on the wall which
is at right angles to the recess, is fixed another time-piece by
Gumming, which was the property of the late General Roy, and
is considered by Mr.- Browne to be the best in his possession.
Respecting this clock, it will be sufficient to remark, that three-
tenths' of a second was the greatest variation in its daily rate
from the 22d February, when the observations commenced, to
 the 31st July; and consequently the deviation from its mean
rate during that period, did not exceed 0•15 of a second per day.
This clock has been used as the standard of comparison, the
time having been taken from the transit instrument by a chro
nometer of Arnold's.      With such advantages it will be confessed
•that there can be little chance of error arising from the rate of
the clock.
    A plank of well seasoned mahogany, two feet wide, and three
inches thick, was forcibly driven between the walls forming the
sides of the recess, until it was near the top of the clock case.
 To this the support of the pendulum before described was firmly
screwed, and carefully levelled, in such a position as to allow the
 pendulum to vibrate as near as possible to the clock-case with
 out touching it ; and that, when at rest, it might appear to an
 observer in front of the clock, to pass over the centre of the dial-
 plate, its extremity reaching a little below the centre of the ball
 of the pendulum.      Beneath, fixed to the clock-case, was an arc
divided into degrees and tenths, to determine the extent of the
 vibrations.    Such a portion of the plank was cut away as was
 necessary to admit of the pendulum being placed on its support.
 A circular white disk was pasted on a piece of black paper, which
 was attached to the ball of the pendulum of the clock ; and this
 disk was of such a diameter, as, when both pendulums were at
 rest, to be just hid from an observer at the opposite side of the
 room,' by one of the slips of deal which form the extremities of
 the brass pendulum.
    Though there was little reason to imagine that the vibrations
 of the pendulum could communicate any motion to a support so
                                                                 firm

96 An Account    of Experiments for      determining   the   Length    of
firm as that which has been described, it became a point of con
siderable importance to verify this by actual experiment.        For
this purpose I had recourse to a delicate and simple instrument
invented by Mr. Hardy, clock-maker, the sensibility of which is
such, that had the slightest motion taken place in the support,
it must have been instantly detected. This little instrument
consists of a steel wire, the lower part of which inserted in the
piece of brass which serves as its support, is flattened so as to
form a delicate spring.     On the wire, a small weight slides, by
means of which it may be made to vibrate in the same time as
the pendulum to which it is to be applied as a test. When thus
adjusted, it is placed on the material to which the pendulum is
attached ; and should this not be perfectly firm, its motion will
be communicated to the wire, which in a little time will accom
pany the pendulum in its vibrations.      This ingenious contrivance
appeared fully adequate     to  the  purpose for which it was em
ployed, and afforded   a  satisfactory proof of the stability of the
point of suspension.
   A firm triangular wooden stand, as high as the ball of the pen
dulum, was screwed to the floor at the distance of nine feet in
front of the clock.     This served as a support, to which was at
tached   a small  telescope, magnifying about four times, which
was capable  of a horizontal motion on its axis, a vertical motion,
and a motion at right angles to the line of sight.     In the focus
of the eve-glass was a diaphragm forming a perpendicular
opening, the sides of which were parallel, and capable of being
placed nearer, or further asunder.     The edges of this diaphragm
were adjusted  so  as to form  tangents to the horizontal diameter
of the white disk, and consequently to coincide with the edge 3
of the slip of deal. When, therefore, both pendulums were at
rest, nothing was visible through the telescope, excepting the
divided arc for ascertaining the extent of the vibrations, and
which was seen through a horizontal opening made for that pur
pose in the top of the diaphragm.
Method   of determining    the Number of Vibrations made by the
                 Pendulum in twenty-four Hours.
    If both pendulums be now set in motion, the brass pendulum
a little preceding that of the clock, the following appearances
maV be remarked?      The slip of deal will first pass through the
field of view of the telescope at each vibration, and will be fol
lowed by the white disk.      But the distance between the centres
of suspension and oscillation in the brass pendulum being rather
the longer, the pendulum of the clock will gain upon      the white
                                                         it,
disk will gradually approach the slip of deal, and at length, at a
certain vibration, will be wholly concealed      byit. The minute
                                     -                                and

the Pendulum vibrating Seconds *in the Latitude            of London.     97
and second at which this total disappearance is observed, must
be noted.      The pendulums will now be seen to separate, and
after a time will again approach each other, when the same
phaenomenon will take place.            The interval between the two
coincidences in seconds, will give the number of vibrations made
by the pendulum of the clock ; and the number of oscillations
of the brass pendulum, in the same interval, may be known by
considering that it must have made two oscillations less than the
pendulum of the clock. Hence by simple proportion, as the vibra
tions made by the pendulum of the clock are to the number of
vibrations made by the brass pendulum, so are the vibrations
made by the pendulum of the clock in 24 hours, to those of the
brass pendulum in the same period*.
    Many experiments were made in order to select such a distance
of the knife edges as might give an interval which would allow
of the determination of the time of coincidence without an error
of a single second f, and vet afford a convenient number of in
tervals before it should become necessary to renew the motion
                         '
of the pendulum.           At the first coincidence, the velocity of the
brass pendulum, at the lowest part of the arc, must not exceed
that of the pendulum of the clock, otherwise the disk would
disappear for an imperceptible time, and then re-appear ; and
this limits the extent of the arc of vibration.
    Again ; the observations must not be continued beyond a cer
tain diminution of the arc of vibration; otherwise the space, which
the pendulum of the clock has to gain on the brass pendulum
 in one vibration, becomes so small as to render the observation
 of the time of coincidence in some degree uncertain ; and, should
the space be so far diminished as to be less than the error or devia
tion from a right line, which would probably take place in the ad
justment of the sides of the diaphragm, the end of the pendulum,
 and the disk, the results would be erroneous, as the interval would
 go on increasing till the pendulum came to a state of rest.
    The interval which best fulfilled these conditions was found
to be about 530 seconds. This admitted five coincidences (af
 fording four intervals) to be taken before the arc became too
 small for the observations to be continued with safety.               With
 this interval an error of one second in the time of coincidence
    * In order to render the calculation more easy, the clock has always been
 supposed to keep meantime, or to make 86,400 vibrations in 24 hours, and
 the variation from this number, or the rate of the clock (being a very small
 quantity) has been afterwards applied as a correction.
    f The principle on which this method of coincidences is founded, was em
 ployed by Dr. Wollaston, in May 1808, in some experiments in which he
 was then engaged, the moment of coincidence being determined however
 by sound instead of sight.
    Vol. 52. No. 244. Aug. 1818.                     G                 would

98    An Account of Experiments for determining the Length of
would occasion an error of only 0'G3 in the number of vibration*
in 24 hours.
    Here it must be evident that no sensible alteration could take
place in the knife edge during the experiments without its be
coming perceptible at every coincidence, since the number of
vibrations in 24 hours deduced from each interval, must vary
with any change in the form of the knife edge.
    The following was the method pursued in making the obser
vations.    The small weight or slider being placed with its index
at a certain distance (say one inch and a half) from the middle
of the pendulum towards the great weight, and the second weight
about five inches from the knife edge, the Ys of the support were
elevated, the knife edge of the pendulum was placed in them,
with the great weight above, and the frame gently lowered till
the knife edge was left on the surface of the agate.     The requi
site adjustments of the telescope having been made, the pendu
lum was set in motion in an arc not exceeding one degree and
four-tenths, in order that its velocity might not be greater than
that of the pendulum of the clock.
   The minute and second, at which the disk ceased to be visible,
was then carefully noted ; and the arc of vibration seen through
the telescope, the height of the barometer, and the temperature
indicated by a thermometer suspended on the clock-case near
the middle of the brass pendulum, were also observed and re
gistered.    Five successive coincidences were thus taken, and the
number of vibrations in 24 hours was deduced from them in the
manner before described ; but the vibrations thus obtained being
 made in different arcs, it became necessary to apply a correction
to determine what they would have been in an arc infmitely
small.    For this correction I might have used a formula depend
ing on the decrease of the arcs in geometrical progression, whilst
the times decrease in arithmetical; but as there is an uncer
tainty in observing the arc of vibration amounting to one or two
hundredths of a degree, this method, though more perfect in
theory, would have been an unnecessary refinement in practice.
    The error arising from the greater length of the vibration in
a  circular arc, being nearly as the square of the arc, if the mean
of the observed arcs at the commencement and end of each in
terval be taken, and its square multiplied by 1•635, (the dif
ference between the number of vibrations made by the pendulum
in 24 hours, in a cycloid and in an arc of one degree,) the re-'
quired correction will be obtained, to be added to the number
of vibrations before computed.
   The mean of these last results being taken, and also the mean
of the observed temperatures at the first and last coincidences,
(he number of vibrations in 24 hours was obtained at a certain
                                                       temperature,

  the Pendulum vibrating Seconds in the Latitude      of London.  99
  temperature, and altitude of the barometer, in an infinitely small
  arc, the great weight being above.                               . ,>
     The frame of the support was now elevated, the pendulum was
 inverted, placed in the Ys, with the great weight below ; and the.
  knife edges being gently let down as before on the agate plane,
 the same process with respect to the observations was followed,
  which has just been described. And if the mean temperature
 differed from that in the former position of the pendulum, the
 mean number of vibrations was corrected for such difference of
 temperature, the expansion of the pendulum being known by-
 experiments hereafter to be detailed, and consequently the gain
 or loss in 24 hours by a given change of temperature.
     The mean number of vibrations thus found, differing from that
 given in the former position of the pendulum, the second weight,
 was moved, the number of vibrations again determined; and the
 pendulum being inverted, the process was repeated until the
 vibrations in 24 hours, in either position of the pendulum, were
 brought as near to an equality as could readily be effected by
 means of this weight : it was then firmly secured in its place.
     Whatever alteration may be made in the arrangement of the
 weights, the effect cn the vibrations {except in one particular
 instance) will be the same in both positions of the pendulum,
 always increasing or diminishing their number in both cases,
 though in different degrees ; and the vibrations will be least
 affected by such change when ihe great weight is below, and
 will consequently be nearest to the truth in this position. No
doubt, therefore, can arise, as to the kind of correction required.
The number of vibrations after the- adjustment by the second
weight has been completed, must be left in defect, for a reason
which will be immediately apparent.
    There is a point in the pendulum where the effect of the slider
in increasing the number of vibrations is a maximum j and it
appears from Dr. Young's investigations, that this point in one
position of the pendulum is different from that in the other.
 Very near either of these points, the pendulum being in its cor
responding position, the motion of the slider produces scarcely
any change in the number of vibrations ; but the slider being
then more distant from the point of maximum belonging to the
other position of the pendulum, the corresponding increase of
the number of vibrations arising from such motion of the slider,
will in that position be very perceptible.
    In the present instance, the point of maximum, in either posi
tion of the pendulum, is about four-tenths of an inch below the
middle, and consequently the distance of the two points' from
each other is about eight-tenths of an inch. The slider, which
had remained stationary during the adjustment of the second
                               G 2                          weight

  100             Experiments upon American Copper.
  weight at about one inch and a half from the middle of the pen
  dulum towards the great weight, must now be shifted (say one
  inch) towards the middle of the pendulum, in order to increase
  the number of vibrations which it may be recollected were left
  in defect, so that they may be in excess.       It is evident that the
   true number of vibrations will be fouud, when the slider is some
  where between its first and second position.         Let the slider be
   now placed half-way between these two points.         If the number
   of vibrations in this third position be still in excess, the truth
  will lie between the first and third positions'of the slider.     And
   thus, by continually bisecting with the slider, the distance of the
  two last found points, the number of vibrations when the great
   weight is Lelow, will rapidly approach the truth, being alternately
-  in defect and in excess ; and when the approximation is such as
   that the difference in either position of the pendulum becomes
   inconsiderable, the vibrations, when the great weight is below,
   may be taken for the truth ; and thus the number of vibration*
   in 24 hours, of a pendulum equal in length to the distance be
   tween the knife edges, will be known at a certain temperature,
   and at an observed height of the barometer.
                             [To  be continued.]
   XV. Account of Experiments         made by the Assay Master of the
        King of the Netherlands, at the Mint of Utrecht, on the Na
        tive Copper existing in Blocks on the South Side of Lake
        Superior, communicated hy a Letter from Mr. Etjstis,        Mi
       nister Plenipotentiary and Envoy Extraordinary from the
        United Stales, &c. to Dr. Samuel L. Mitchill, dated
       Hague, Oct. 12, 1817.'
    Dear Sir,- — Perceiving by the public newspapers, that my
    friend Dr. Le Barron had presented you a piece of copper, I in
    close the analysis of a piece which he gave me at the mint of
    Utrecht,  a portion  of which, in its crude state, I presented to
    the minister of foreign affairs, to be deposited in the university
    of Leyden.     My object in procuring an assay in a foreign coun
    try, was first to add to the diffusion of information respecting
    our country; and secondly, that it might be compared with ex
    periments made in the United States.         I had hoped to return
    this autumn, and to have taken it with me; but the state of our
    commercial relations with this country has necessarily deferred
    that hope Until the spring.     I am, &c.
        The [ion. Samuel L. Mitchill.                       W. Eustis.
                                                                     The'

     On the Relation between     Muriatic Acid and Chlorine.         101
    The Report from the mint is in these words :
    From every appearance, the piece of copper           seems to have
been taken from a mass that has undergone fusion.           The melting
was, however, not an operation of art, but a natural effect, caused
by a volcanic eruption.
    The stream of lava probably carried along, in its course, the
aforesaid body of copper that had formed into one collection, as
fast as it was heated enough to run, from all parts of the mine.
The united mass .was probably borne in this manner to the
place where it now rests in the soil.
    The crystallized form observable every where on the original
surface of the metal that has been left untouched or undisturbed,
leads me to presume that the fusion it has sustained was by
e process of nature ; since this crystallized surface can only be
supposed to have been produced by a slow and gradual cooling,
whereby the copper assumed regular figures as its heat passed
inro other substances, and the metal itself lay exposed to
 the air.
    As to the properties of the copper itself, it may be observed
that its colour is a clear red; that it is peculiarly qualified for
rolling and forging; and that its excellence is indicated by its
resemblance to the copper usually employed by the English for
plating.
    The dealers in copper call this sort Peruvian copper, to distin
guish it from that of Sweden, which is much less malleable. The
specimen under consideration         is incomparably       better than
 Swedish copper, as well on account of its brilliant colour, as
for the fineness of its pores, and its extreme ductility.
    Notwithstanding, before it is used in manufactures, or for the
coining of money, it ought to be melted anew, for the purpose
of purifying it from such earthy particles as it may contain.
    The examination of the North Ameriean copper, in the sam
ple received from his excellency the minister, by the operations
of the cupel and the test by fire, has proved that it does not con
 tain the smallest particle of silver, gold, or any other metal.
 XVI.     Experiments on the Relation between Muriatic Acid and
    Chlorine. By Andrew Ure, M.D. Professor of the Ander-
    sonian Institution, and Member of the Geological Society *
Th e     Chloridic theory, though more limited in its application
 to chemical phaenomena than the Antiphlogistic, may justly be
        * From the Transactions of the
                                       Royal Society of Edinburgh.
                                   G 3                          regarded

   102          Experiments     on the  Relation between
  regarded as of scarcely inferior importance.         If established, ft
  leads to the adoption of entirely new views concerning combus
  tion and many of its products ; it removes the muriates, a set of
  apparently well characterized saline bodies, from the class of salts
  altogether ; and it has given birth, by analogy, to two new ge
  nera of compounds, in which iodine and fluorine, like chlorine,
  act a corresponding part with oxvgen, in the system of La
 voisier.
      This new era in chemical science unquestionably originated
 from the masterly researches of Sir Humphry Davy on oxy-
 muriatic acid gas; a substance which, after resisting the most
 powerful means of decomposition which his sagacity could in
 vent, or his ingenuity apply, he declared to be, according to the
 true logic of chemistry, an elementary body, and not a com
 pound of muriatic acid and oxygen, as was previously imagined,
 and as its name seemed to denote.         He accordingly assigned to
 it the term Chlorine, descriptive of its colour ; a name now ge
 nerally used.
     Chlorine when combined with an equal volume of hydrogen
 forms muriatic acid gas, the hydrochloric of Gay-Lussac.           This
muriatic acid gas, hygrometrically dry, unites with its own bulk
of dry ammoniacal gas, to constitute the dry pulverulent solid
 called sal ammoniac.     Hence this saline body is ultimately com
 posed of chlorine and hydrogen, for its acid ; and of azote and
 hydrogen for its base.     By comparing the weights of muriatic
 acid and ammoniacal gases, in equal volumes, we obtain the
proportion of 67'8 muriatic acid gas to 32•2 ammonia, for the
composition of 100 parts by weight of the solid salt.          If we sa
 turate liquid muriatic acid with gaseous ammonia, or with the
base of the ammoniacal carbonate, and evaporate carefully to
 dryness, we find the resulting salt to have precisely the same
 constitution, namely, in 100 parts, 5 1 of dry muriatic acid, equi
valent to 67'8 of the acid gas, and the remainder 32-2 ammonia.
This concurrence of results, whatever way the salt may be ob
tained, is fully demonstrated in my researches on the ammonia
cal salts, {Annals of Philosophy for September 1817,) and proves
it to be a substance of very uniform and determinate composi
tion.
     Those chemists who consider chlorine to be oxymuriatic acid
must suppose, when a volume of it weighing 44•13 unites with
an equal volume of hydrogen weighing 1•32, that, in the re
sulting hydrochloric or muriatic acid gas =45•45, this hydrogen
exists combined with 10-00 of oxygen, its saturating quantity,
forming 1 1•32 of constituent water.        In this view, muriatic acid
gas,   like gaseous, sulphuric,   and  nitric acids, contains water as
an essential element.     There seems to be no violation of chemi-
                                 —                                   cal

                          Muriatic Acid and Chlorine.                           103
    cal analogy in this supposition.         The quantity will   be represented
                        11-32
    by the fraction             being nearly one-fourth.
         If chlorine,however, be a simple body, which forms with hy
    drogen    muriatic acid gas, then sal ammoniac is rightly named
     Hydrochlorate of Ammonia. And since ammonia itself results
    from three volumes of hydrogen and one of azote, condensed
    into two volumes, that saline body can contain neither water,
    nor its indispensable element oxygen.
       On the other hand, if chlorine be oxymuriatic acid, then the
    fourth part of water existing in the resulting muriatic acid gas
    must necessarily enter into the sal ammoniac as an essential
    constituent ; for the whole ponderable matter of that gas, as
'
    well as of the ammonia, passes into the salt. This water being
    as indispensable an ingredient of sal ammoniac as it is of oil of
    vitriol ; heat alone can no more separate it from the former,
    than it can from the latter compound.
       Moreover, if we decompose sal ammoniac by the agency of
    any body containing oxygen, an evident source of fallacy exists
    relative to the watery product, which may be referred by the
    supporters of the chloridic theory, not to the salt itself, but to
    the hydrogen of the hydrochloric acid, united with the oxygen
    of the decomposing substance. This ambiguous interpretation
    is experimentally illustrated in my paper on the Ammoniacal
    Salts.
         If,
           however, we shall decompose that equivocal salt,           by
                                                                  means
    ©f   a substance which certainly contains no oxygen      and  ;  we    if
    still obtain water in nearly the above proportions    then this re
                                                             ;
    sult   isno longer equivocal, nor will    admit of two interpreta
                                                it
    tions.    We must thenceforth be compelled to recognise in mu
    riatic acid gas, as in the other acid vapours, water as an ingre
    dient essential to its constitution; and to acknowledge that
    chlorine consists of    abase united to oxygen, or     in fact oxy
                                                                 is
    genated muriatic acid, as Lavoisier and Berthollet taught, and
    as the whole chemical world believed, till their faith was lately
    shaken or subverted         the predominating genius of Sir Hum
                                    by
    phry Davy.
         With the view of deciding the above important controversy,
I     performed the following experiments         :
       Of sal ammoniac, kept for some time in a platina capsule at
    a subliming heat, to remove every particle of adhering moisture,
    a known quantity was put into glass tube, and made to slide
                                          a
    down to the one end, which had been hermetically sealed. Over
    it given weight of bright metallic laminas, cut into slender seg
      a
    ments, was slightly pressed.    The salt occupied in general about
    •pne inch of the tube   the ;laminae four or five inches.   Silver,
                                         G4                            copper,

104              Experiments on ike Relation      bet ween
copper, and turnings of iron made with a dry tool, were em
ployed in successive experiments.              The open extremity of the
tube was drawn out to a point, and recurved, so as to pass tin
der a vessel inverted on the mercurial pneumatic trough.               Be
tween this and the portion containing the metal, there was a
length of six or more inches of tube, which was kept cool.               In
one variation of the experiment, a tube of Reaumur's porcelain
was used for containing the materials, to which was firmly luted,
by a collar of caoutchouc, a glass tube, with a little globe blown
in its middle, and its loose end plunged, as usual, into the mer
curial trough.
     When tubes of crystal glass were employed, the part contain
ing the materials was lodged in a semicy.lindrical case of iron,
 which traversed a small charcoal furnace five or six inches in
 diameter.       The metallic laminae being raised to full ignition in
 day-light, the case and tube were slightly moved forward, in
 order to bring a little of the salt withm the sphere of the heat.
 Great nicety was required in the advancement of the sealed ex
 tremity; for the glass tube being perfectly softened in its middle,
 too sudden volatilization of the salt never failed, by inflating and
 bursting  it,   to spoil the experiment.        This accident frequently
 happened.        On the other hand,    if    the central part of the tube
 was exposed to merely    a      dull red, the experiment would not suc
 ceed with silver and copper.            At this temperature they did not
 decompose      the  sal  ammoniac.       When, however, the above-men
 tioned precautions        were   observed, dew could be perceived to
 settle speedily on the cool portion of the tube.             This dew be
 came more and more visible as the sublimation advanced, till,
 fmally collecting into distinct drops,      it    trickled down the sides
 in stria, and formed     a     filament along the bottom.       To obtain
 good    results  of  this kind,   four  or five hours  must be  devoted  to
 one experiment, in which 20 grains of salt, and from 60 to 100
 of metal, are employed.             More rapid transmission of the salts,
 effects mere sublimation.         Bubbles of gas come over, which, with
 silver and copper laminae, are found to be a mixture of ammonia
  and hydrogen.         In this case, the liquid condensed     is  water of
  ammonia.
     The metallic laminae are evidently heavier than before their
 introduction    ;   but the increase of their weight could not be ex
  actly ascertained, because a portion of the silver or copper           is
 impressed on the inner surface of the tube, giving       it   a very beau-;
  tiful iridescent and metallic lustre, similar to the colours of the
  diamond beetle viewed in      a       microscope.     The silver laminae
 have for the most part exchanged their native brilliant white, for
a    dull brown or grayish hue      ;     and, instead of being eminently
 tough and. ductile, have become move brittle than any substance

                   Muriatic Acid and Chlorine.                         105
with which I am acquainted.         The slightest touch of the finger
breaks them across.        Digested in pure nitric acid somewhat
dilute, the segments only partially dissolve, bits of muriate of sil
ver, of their own shape, being left in the liquid.
     The ignited copper turnings, after experiencing the action of
sal ammoniac, are found to have lost also their original lustre,
and have acquired a dull brown colour.           Digested in water, a
liquid muriate is obtained, which gives the characteristic brown
precipitate with prussiate of potash.
     The most considerable of my experiments with turnings was
made with the tube of Reaumur's porcelain, which, as it con-
                                                                           '
tains no oxide of lead, is not liable to any ambiguity on this score,
and being capable of sustaining a very high heat without fusion,
permitted me to obtain very satisfactory results indeed.
     Thirty grains of recently heated sal ammoniac being put down
 to the sealed end, 200 grains of bright turnings of very pure soft
 iron were introduced over      it,so as to occupy six inches of the
 tube.     The glass tube "above described, was attached           by the
 elastic gum collar.     The part holding the iron being brought to
 bright ignition, the sealed end of the tube was advanced          by de
 grees almost imperceptible.        As soon as the salt began to ex
 hale, moisture began to condense in the glass tube, though none
 ever appeared prior to heating the sal ammoniac.            The evolu
 tion of gas was much more copious than in any of the experi
 ments with the other metals.       When allowed to escape through
 the quicksilver into the air, exhibited the dense cloud, and had
                                it
  the odour, of muriatic acid. Received into       atube over mercury,
  and then exposed to the action of water, rfo parts of the volume
  were absorbed, which on trial were found to be pure muriatic
  acid.    The remainder was    a mixture of azote and hydrogen, in
  the proportions very nearly that are known to constitute am
  monia.  I    analysed this mixed gas,      byexplosion with half its
  volume of pure oxygen, in         apeculiar apparatus which      1 shall
  describe in the sequel.    On firing 100 measures with the electric
  spark, 76•2 disappeared, two-thirds of which, =50'          8, are hv?
  drogen.    Before   explosion,  the  hundred   volumes     consisted  of
  66f ammoniacal gaseous matter, -t-33-g- oxygen. Of these 6G*
  parts, 50'8 are hydrogen, and 15'86 azote; or, in the 100,
  76•2 + 23-S.      But,   byGay-Lussac, one volume of azote unites
  with three volumes of hydrogen to form ammonia.            Hence 23,8.
   measures of azote should have been accompanied with only 71•4
   of hydrogen, instead of 76'2 actually obtamed. This excess of
  hydrogen    is due to the decomposition of      a little of the watery
  product, in the formation of the muriate of iron.        That muriate
   of iron
         is   formed, is  proved      by
                                      many circumstances.       First, the
   disappearance of the acid in the gaseous products.           Sal am
                                                                   moniac

  106        Experiments      on Muriatic Acid and Chlorine.
 moniac being decomposed into its ultimate gases, will consist of
 two measures of those constituting the alkali + one measure of
 the muriatic.        Hence 100 volumes should contain 33\ of this
 acid gas; but they actually contained only about 5.                Therefore
 about 28 measures, which form the difference, were condensed
 with the iron. Secondly, the iron turnings had increased in
 weight ; they deliquesced speedily on exposure to tlie atmo
 sphere; and, digested in water, they yielded an acerb-tasted so
 lution of muriate of iron, giving with prussiate of potash a co
 pious blue precipitate.
     The quantity of muriate produced in the experiment will de
 pend on the proportion of turnings which have been but mo
 derately heated ; for the ammonia, in its passage over the .strongly
 ignited iron, may be conceived to separate the oxygen, and thus
 prevent the formation of muriate.
     Water impregnated with muriatic acid equal in weight to
 nearly one-sixth of the ?al ammoniac decomposed, is uniformly
 obtained by the abo*e process.            Scarcely a particle of ammonia
 seems to escape entire decomposition.                The evolved muriatic
 acid, amounting        to -j-j^ of  the   whole    gaseous products, must
 carry off with it a portion of its constituent water.              Hence we
 ought to find a little less water here condensed, than, by my ex
 periments on the ammoniacal salts above referred to, sal am
 moniac, viewed as a muriate, is shown to contain.
     It seems evidently to follow, from this experimental detail,
 that chlorine is oxygenated muriatic acid. Since dry sal am
 moniac consists of ammonia and muriatic acid gases, both hy-
 grometrically dry ; and since water is obtained in its decompo
 sition bv pure metals ; this water must have existed in the
gaseous acid; for all experiments concur in proving ammonia
itself to contain nothing but azote and hydrogen.               And, finally,
 sinee muriatic acid gas is a compound of chlorine and hydro
 gen, the water derived from the resulting muriatic acid, demon
strates the presence of oxygen in the chlorine, or, in other
words, that it is really oxymuriatic acid*.
     All the experimental phaenomena hitherto adduced in the
chloridic controversy, were susceptible of explanation on both
 the old and new doctrine.         Thus, the hydrogen which remains
 after tin is subjected at a high temperature to muriatic acid gas,
could be regarded, with Davy, as resulting from a metallic ana-
    *  If the Chloridic theory be still retained, then the production of water
 5n  the above circumstances can be ascribed only to the decomposition of
azote into oxygen and hydrogen, as has been already indicated in my paper
on the Ammoniacal Salts. It is possible that this alternative may eventually
be found the true one ; yet, in the present state of our knowledge, such an
inference would be illogical.

                Experiments on Muriatic Acid Gas.                      107
 lysis of hydrochloric acid ; or it might be derived from the com
 bined water of muriatic acid, of which the oxygen became fixed
 in the muriate of tin. When chlorine also at high heats was
 made to act on earths or common metallic oxides, the evolved
 oxygen could be referred with equal probability either to the
 solid or to the gas.
     And though we ignite by the strongest Voltaic power, char
 coal or other combustibles in chlorine, still we shall not be able
 to convert it into muriatic acid gas, for want of the essential
 constituent water; no more than we can, without the same
 water, obtain oil of vitriol.        Present water to chlorine, then
 light alone will separate its oxygen, and leave muriatic acid.
  Such, indeed, is the affinity existing between the muriatic acid
 basis and water, that those muriates which of themselves resist
 decomposition at a red heat, when exposed at that temperature
 to the vapour of water, are speedily resolved into gaseous mu
 riatic ucid, and their peculiar bases.
     By restoring the theory of Lavoisier and Berthollet, we get
 rid of those mysterious and almost incomprehensible transfor
 mations which a drop of water has been lately conceived to pro-
-duce on some of the muriates.            Dried sea-salt, for example,
 when viewed as a compound of chlorine and sodium, is no
 sooner moistened, than a portion of water resolves itself into
 oxygen and hydrogen ; whence result soda and hydrochloric acid,
 and a solution of muriate of soda.        Expel the drop of water, we
  have a chloride of sodium once more ; and we may repeat this
 invisible change for an indefinite number of times bv the addition
  or subtraction of a little moisture.       Thus we must consider dry
  salt and moist salt to be bodies widely and essentiallv different,
 the former containing neither alkali nor acid,' while the latter
 contains both.      This supposition, which the chloridic theory
  compels us to make, must surely be reckoned somewhat vio
  lent.     -
  XVII.    Experiments on Muriatic Acid Gas, with Observations
     on its Chemical Constitution, and on some other Subjects of
     Chemical Theory.         By John Murray, M.D. F.R.S. E.
     Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh.*
     ome years ago I proposed, as decisive of the question which
  has been the subject of controversy on the nature of oxymuriatie
  and muriatic acids, the experiment of procuring water from
  muriate of ammonia, formed by the combination of dry ammo-
         * Frog» the Transactions of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
                                                                     niacal

108            Experiments on Muriatic Acid Gas,
 niacal and muriatic acid gases.          Muriatic acid gas being the
sole product of the mutual action of oxymuriatic gas and hydro
 gen, it follows, that if oxymuriatic gas contain oxygen, muriatic-
 acid gas must contain combined water ; while, if the former be
 a simple body, the latter must be the real acid, free from water.
 When muriatic acid gas is submitted to the action of substances
 which combine with acids, water is obtained ; but though the
 most simple and direct conclusion from this is, that the water is
 deposited from the muriatic acid gas, the result may be accounted
 for, on the opposite doctrine, by the supposition that it is water
 formed by the combination of the hydrogen of the acid with the
 oxygen of the base.      Ammonia, however, containing no oxygen,
 if water is obtained  from  its combination with muriatic acid gas,
we obtain a result which cannot be accounted for on this hypo
thesis, but must be regarded as a proof of the presence of water
 in the acid gas. And this, again, affords a proof equally con
 clusive of the existence of oxygen in oxymuriatic gas.
    The results of the experiment which I had brought forward
•were involved in much controversial       discussion : and a brief re
capitulation of the objections that were urged to it is necessary,
 as an introduction to the experiments I have now to submit, and
 to the consideration of the present state of the question.
    The original experiment was performed by combining thirty
 cubic inches of muriatic acid gas with the same volume of am-
 moniacal gas carefully dried.      The salt formed was exposed in a
small retort with a receiver adapted to           it,
                                                   to a moderate heat
 gradually raised.     Moisture speedily condensed in the neck of
the retort, which increased and collected into small globules*.
    This result was admitted           by
                                    those who defended the new doc
trine, when the experiment       was  performed in the manner       have
                                           was allowed, " in no incon
                                                                                 I
described,  —  water being obtained,        it
siderable quantity."      But, to obviate the conclusion,        was as
 serted, that this   is water which has been absorbed            the saltby it
•from the atmosphere. This was affirmed           by
                                                   Sir Humphry Davy,
 who stated that the salt absorbs water in this manner to           very         a
considerable extent       that
                          ;       it  only from the salt
                                       is                     this state
                                                                   in
 that water can be procured; and that when             formed from the
                                                      it   is
 combination of the gases in       aclose vessel, and heated without
exposure to the air, not the slightest trace of water appears,
«ven when the experiment          performed on a large scale.
                                  is
    The  reverse  of this   was
                              I   able to demonstrate       further ex
                                                                  by
perimental investigations.         was shown, that the salt absorbs
                                  It
no moisture from the air in the common state of dryness and
                <U+2666>
                    Nicholson's Journal, vol. xsxi.   p.   126.
                                                                       temperaturQ

              with Observations on Us Chemical Constitution.                        109
  temperature in which the experiment is performed : when weighed
  immediately on its formation, in an exhausted vessel, it gains-
  no weight from exposure, but remains the same after a number
  of hours ; and when exposed to the air in the freest manner, it
  remains, after many days, perfectly dry.                 It was further shown,
  that when the other circumstances of the experiment are the
  same, it yields no larger portion of water when it has been ex
   posed to the air, than it does without this previous exposure.
  And, lastly, it was proved, that when the salt has been formed,
   and is heated without the air having been admitted, water is ob
   tained from it.        This last result was even at length admitted by
   those who had advanced the opposite assertion, in an experi
   ment performed with a view to determine the fact.                       The quan-
i  tity    of water   was  indeed  less  than    what   is  procured     in the other
   mode ; but this was obviously owing to the circumstances of the
   experiment being unfavourable to its expulsion, — more particu
   larly to the difficulty of applying a regulated temperature to 3
   thin crust of salt, so as to separate the water without volatilizing
    the salt itself, — and to the effect arising from the whole internal
   surface of a large vessel being encrusted with the salt ; so that, if
    the heat is locally applied, the aqueous vapour expelled from
    one part is in a great measure condensed and absorbed at an
    other; or, if the heat is applied equally, is retained in the clastic
    form, and, as it is cooled, is equally condensed.                    Accordingly,
    when the experiment was repeated, obviating these sources of
    error as far as possible, the water obtained was in larger quan
    tity. And as no fallacy belongs to the conducting the experi
    ment in the more favourable mode in which it was first per
    formed, (the assertion of the absorption of water from the air
    being altogether unfounded,) the quantity procured in that mode
     is to be regarded as the real result*.
         The argument was maintained, that the water might be de
     rived from hygrometric vapour in the gases submitted to experi
    ment.       This it was easy to refute.          Dr. Henry had shown that
     ammonia after exposure to potash, and muriatic acid after ex
     posure to muriate of lime, retain no trace of vapour whatever.
     And these precautions had been very carefully observed. The
      assertion was brought forward, too, only to account for the mi
      nute quantity of water obtained in that mode of conducting the
      experiment which affords the least favourable result ; and, were
      it even admitted to all the extent to which it can be supposed
      to exist, is inadequate to account for the larger quantity ob
      tained in the other.
           *
              Nicholson's Journal, vol. .xxxii. p. 13b' &c.   : vol. xzxiv. p. 271-
                                                            •   '
                                                                                    That

     110           Experiments on Muriatic Acid Gas,
       That the entire quantity of water contained in the muriatic
    acid gas is not to be looked for, is evident from the nature of
    the ammoniacal salt, particularly its volatility, whence the due
    degree of heat to effect the separation of the water cannot be
    applied.   If the other muriates yield the greater part of their
   water, only when raised nearly to a red heat, (which is the case,)
   it is not to be supposed that muriate of ammonia shall do so at
   a temperature so much lower, as that which it can sustain with
   out volatilization. What is to be expected, is a certain portion
   of water, greater as the arrangements employed are better
   adapted to obviate the peculiar difficulty attending the experi
   ment.     There is a production of water in every form of it ; and
   there exists no just argument whence it can be inferred, that the
   quantity is less than what ought to be obtained.    On the oppo
  site doctrine, none whatever should appear.
      To effect the more perfect separation of the water from the
  muriate of ammonia, I had performed the additional experiment
   of passing the salt formed from the combination of the two gases
  in vapour through ignited charcoal, on the principle that by the
  interposition of the charcoal the transmission of the vapour
  would be impeded, and it would be exposed to a more extensive
 surface, at which a high temperature would operate, while some
  effect might also be obtained from the affinities exerted by the
 carbonaceous matter.       To remove any ambiguity from the ef
 fect of the charcoal, it was previously exposed in an iron tube
 to a very intense heat, until all production of elastic fluid had
 ceased ; and removed, while still warm, into a tube of Wedg
 wood's porcelain, containing the muriate of ammonia, which
 was then placed across a furnace so as to be raised to a red
 heat.     As soon as the vapour of the salt passed through the ig
 nited charcoal, gas was disengaged, which was conveyed by a
 curved glass tube adapted to the porcelain one, and received in
 a jar over quicksilver.     Moisture was at the same time pretty
 copiously deposited, condensing both in the glass tube in glo
 bules, and beirtg brought in vapour with the gas, which it ren
 dered opaque, and condensing on the surface of the quicksilver
within the jars. The elastic fluid consisted of carburetted hy
drogen and carbonic acid, products evidently of the decomposi
tion by the ignited charcoal of a portion of the liberated water.
In this experiment, then, the- result was still more satisfactory
than in the other.      That no ambiguity arose from any effect of
the charcoal in affording water, is evident from this, — that the
water appeared at the moment the salt began to pass in vapour,
and at a temperature far below that at which the charcoal had
ceased to afford any gas.       In another variation of the experi
                                                             ment,

           with Ohervations       on Us Chemical     Constitution.          Hi
ment, muriate of ammonia was passed in vapour through an
ignited porcelain tube alone.      Water was obtained in larger
quantity than when the salt had been exposed to a heat short of
its volatilization ; and even the salt which had yielded water by
that operation, afforded an additional quantity in this mode, —
a proof of the more perfect separation of the water by the effect
of   a higher temperature*.
     By all these results, then,I consider the existence of water ia
muriate of ammonia, and of course in muriatic acid gas, as de
monstrated.
   Dr. Ure has lately laid before the Society the result of another
mode of conducting the experiment, — that of subliming the mu
riate of ammonia over some of the metals at the temperature
of ignition. Water is thus stated to be obtained in considerable
quantity, with a production of hydrogen gas.
   No objection appeared to Dr. Ure's experiment, except, .per
haps, that the salt operated on was not that formed by the direct
combination of its constituent gases, but the common sal am
moniac, in which water might be supposed to exist, either as an
essential or an adventitious ingredient, as it is abundantly sup
plied to it in the processes by which it is formed.     I had found,
indeed, in some of my former experiments f, that sal ammoniac
yields no water when exposed to a heat sufficient to sublime it,
but affords it only when exposed to a red heat by transmission
of its vapour through an ignited tube; — that, therefore, (owing
no doubt to its previous sublimation,) it contains apparently even
less water than the salt formed by the combination of the two
gases.    Still, objections entitled to less consideration than this
one, had been maintained in the course of this controversy.         I
therefore thought it right to repeat the experiment, with the
necessary precaution to obviate           it,
                                       and to observe the actual re
sult.       .
     Thirty grains of muriate of ammonia, formed from the com
bination of muriatic acid and ammoniacal gases, were put into
a glass tube with      slight curvature.
                       a                   Two hundred grains of
clean and dry iron filings were placed over it.        The tube was
put in    case
          a    of iron  with  sand, and  placed across  a small fur
nace, so that the middle part, where the iron filings were, was
at a red heat, the extremity terminating in the mercurial trough.
The salt, from the heat reaching the closed extremity of the
tube, soon passed in vapour through the ignited iron.         Gas                  •
issued from the extremity, and moisture appeared in the cold
part of the tube.      large quantity of gas was collected, which
                         A
had the odour quite strong of muriatic acid, and was in part con-
     • Nicholson's Journal, vol. xxxi.   p.   123.   f   Id. vol. xxxiv. p. Uf4.
                                                                         denscd

112                Experiments      on   Muriatic Acid Gas.
densed by water ; the residue burned with the flame of hydro
gen.     The tube, for several inches, was studded with globule*
of water, and was bedimmed with vapour further.                I did not
prosecute   the  experiment,   so  as to ascertain the weight   of water
produced,    as I had  other experiments    in view, which  I  conceived
might afford more conclusive results.         But it proves the point it
was designed to establish, that water is obtained from the salt
formed by the combination of the gases, as well as from the
common sal ammoniac.
    My attention having been thus recalled to the subject, I have
again executed the experiment in its original and simplest form,
—that of obtaining water from the salt by heat alone ; and to
this I was led more particularly, as it had occurred to me, that
a more perfect abstraction of its water might be effected, by
conducting the experiment in an apparatus somewhat on the
principle of the instrument invented by Dr. Wollaston, which he
named the Cryoplwrus.          In a retort of the capacity of seven
cubic inches, fitted with a stop-cock, and exhausted, sixty cubic
inches of ammoniacal gas were combined with the requisite
quantity of muriatic acid gas, each previously carefully dried, —
the former by exposure to potash, the latter by exposure to
muriate of lime.       The stop-cock was then detached from the
 retort; the excess of ammoniacal gas was removed by a caout
 chouc bottle, and replaced by atmospheric air ; the salt was
 pushed down from the neck ; and it was connected with another
 similar retort, the joining of the two being secured by cement.
 This -last retort was also fitted with a stop-cock adapted to a
 tubulature at its curvature ; and heat being applied to            it,
                                                                    littlea
 of the included air was allowed to escape.          was then placed in
                                                    It
a   mixture of muriate of lime and ice, while the other, contain
 ing the muriate of ammonia, was placed in warm oil.            The heat
 of  this was  raised  to 420°    of  Fahrenheit   :moisture condensed
 at the upper part of the neck, when the heat had been raised to
 220°, and continued for some time to increase.               then dimi
                                                              It
 nished, from the continued application of the heat, carrying                 it
 forward into the cold retort; and at the end of the experiment a
 considerable part of the body of this was encrusted with            thin a
 film of ice.    This result, therefore, coincides entirely with what
 had been before obtained *.
    * The other papers in this controversy by Dr. Ure and Dr. Murray, will
be given in   a   subsequent   number.
                                                                   XVill.     On

                                   C   113   ]
XVIII.      On Chemical Philosophy.           By   Mr. Matthew Allan,
                                    Lecturer.
                             [Continued from p. 58.]
™                          . .   Essay   VII.
 A he Galvanic Apparatus consists of alternate arrangements
of copper and zinc plates, the sides of which are placed in con
tact with an acid solution ; the acid has a stronger attraction for
the zinc than for the copper; the oxygen too of the water is
aided in its attraction for the zinc by that contained in the acid ;
in this way the water and acid are decomposed : the oxygen
t?f both is abstracted; part of it combines with the zinc, but
the greater part assumes the gaseous form. In consequence of
assuming this gaseous form, there must, it is evident, be a pro
digious demand for this caloric or ethereal power, to give and
support this new state of existence which it assumes; and at
the same time a still larger quantity of hydrogen, the other con
stituent of water, is set at liberty, and of course there is here
 demanded a still larger quantity of this power to give it also the
gaseous form*.           It is this demand which explains the effects
 produced by the galvanic arrangement, and the explanation is
this : —:The demand is made through the nearest and best con
ductor, which in this arrangement must be the copper ; the cop
per is thus robbed of its natural quantity (as is the negative con
ductor by the revolutions of the cylinder of the electric machine,
to be explained presently), and, of course, instantly demands
 **
    its duv and relative share" from the earth and surrounding
medium.        This supply from the earth and surrounding medium
is no sooner received, than it is instantly absorbed by the oxygen
and hydrogen assuming the aeriform state; and this current
during its passage exhibits the correctness of the law already
 briefly hinted at, — that bodies are, relatively to others, positive
 when they are relatively worse conductors.                The copper, the
 zinc, and the solution, are relatively to each other in positive and
 negative states' of existence.           But though the galvanic action
 might, and does in some measure, accumulate in the solution, on
 the principle of its being the worse conductor; yet this accumu
 lation is in part prevented, by the current demanded to sup
 port the changes going on, which stream or current is carried by
 the conducting power of the metals : so that in this way, as I
 have already pointed out, there is produced by chemical means
 a current of this power, as there is by mechanical means in
    *  It has been   frequently repeated, that in every change of existence ca
 loric is given out or absorbed, in the form either of electricity, of galvanism,
 of caloric, or of light.
  ; Vol. 52. No.244.^i/g. 1818.                       H                   electric

  1 H                  On Chemical Philosophy.
 electric contrivances:   and it is evident that on these principles
 the galvanic action will continue as long as these gaseous re
  sults require and demand this power ; and this must continue
  as long as the surface remains susceptible of oxidation, or capa
  ble by the means described of producing these effects of decom
  position. The cause, also, why the metal which has the strongest
  attraction for oxygen is always positive, while the other, having
  less, is negative, is explained on the same principles.        The
  oxygen after being separated from its combination with hydro
 gen in the state of water, and when so separated and having
 demanded this power to hold it. in solution — is again attracted
 to, and deposited on, the metal, so that this solvent is here again
 set at liberty ; whereas the hydrogen having no such attraction
 for the metal, the energies of this power are here not at liberty,
 but are taken up with holding this hydrogen in solution or in
 the gaseous stale: and hence at this end the current of gas is
 seen to arise, while on the other no such current is perceived,
 though this is the positive point, — the power is there; but be
 ing unoccupied, it is In its pure and attenuated state, and of
 course invisible. When wires are employed which are not oxy-
 dizable, then oxygen is given off at one end and hydrogen at the
 other ; or rather they appear to be given off at distinct and se
 parate ends; for wherever oxygen is separated, there must
 hydrogen also, each portion of water being alike composed of
 both : but oxygen having a greater affinity for all metals than
 hydrogen, and this affinity being greater in some than others, it
is detained by the point where this decomposition is going on,
while the hydrogen is carried to the next metal — all which is
beautifully proved by the arrangement of the cups, and by many
facts of galvanism, which we must leave to be explained when
we come to treat of all the facts classed under the head of Gal
vanism, and to which all this must still be considered as pre
paratory. The oxygen and hydrogen are given off at these
points, and so far occupy the energies of this power.          Here
consequently it may be said, that as the oxygen is not deposited
on the metal, it does not give up this power in the way just de
scribed, and therefore cannot be positive.      It is not so indeed
in so high a degree; — positive and negative are mere relative
states of existence.    The hydrogen occupying this power more
than the oxygen, they are still relatively to each other positive
and negative, only not in so high a degree: the hydrogen requiring
about thirteen times more to give it the gaseous form, than the
Same weight of oxygen requires, they still remain to each other
positive and negative, and the hydrogen of course negative.
    I am aware, as I have already stated in the former Essays,
that this is not the common statement of the difference in their
                                                           capacity;

               f     On Chemical Philosophy.                      115
 capacity ; but I have also already hinted, that I conceive the
 methods hitherto used to ascertain capacity to be fallacious,
 and of course that the tables in some instances are erroneous;
 that it is not alone the transference of heat from one body to
 another, or the quantity of ice which bodies will melt in cooling,
 which can determine it ; but how far this power is separated in         .
 its pure and unconfinable form, and of course makes its escape
 without having time to produce any of these effects.— But of this
 more afterwards.
    This explanation of galvanism will beautifully apply to the
 evolution of gas in coal pits.     It is confirmed by the fact lately
 ascertained, —   that  a  heated atmosphere increases the power of
 galvanism.    It is confirmed too by a review of those circumstances
 which modify the actions of this power in galvanism, and render
 them so different in their effects and appearances to those which
 it produces in the form of electricity.    Let us then examine these
 differences.   Every    fact connected   with  the discovery of gal
 vanism, and the history of its progress, proves the explanation    I
 have given to be the true one.        They prove that positive and
 negative are mere relative states of existence, produced by that
 arrangement of conductors and of substances which, by the
 changes they induce, calls forth a current or stream of this
 power; which depends on the same principles, though varied by
 circumstances, as that which is produced in the form of elec
 tricity.
   Galvanism I shall therefore define " as tliat object of science
 which treats of some of the chemical and natural means of
 Partiallv> separating the grand agent from some of its com'
 linntions, and of ascertaining its actions in this state."
    Electricity I have considered as the most pure and separate
 form of fire, or of the power which produces the phaenomena of
  heat and flame ; and consequently more attenuated than any
  other, more rapid in its movements, and less resistible in its
  passage through substances.        Galvanism I consider to be the
  same power, only partially separated from its combinations, and
  differing widely in all these respects.     Hence we perceive the
  solution  of that most   interesting question, stated, but not an
  swered, in that valuable work the Edinburgh Encyclopaedia,
      How do Galvanism and Electricity differ from each other?"
   If we attend to the solvent, attractive and energetic properties
, of this power, as already pointed out, and the different methods
  peculiar to its production in electricity and galvanism, it is evi
  dent that they must differ from each other. In electricity we con
  trive by mechanical means to collect the loose and       "  uncom~
  bined quantity" from the earth and surrounding medium : and
  this we do in circumstances in which it ha* nothing to act upon,
t;   .   .-.                  H   2                                as

LI 6                  On Chemical Philosophy.
as free from moisture     of any kind as possible; in fact, from every
thing readily   soluble  in beat or in tbis power.     I would there
fore define Electricity to be " the object of science which treats
of the mechanical and natural means of separating this grand
agent from some of its combinations, and
                                                  of ascertaining its
actions in this state."      In galvanism, on the- other hand, this
solvent power, this electric fire, is produced in circumstances in
which it has substances to act upon ; substances which are most
readily dissolved in it ; substances, in fact, which seem \p form
the grand medium of communication between this tower and
passive substances ; and which are partially dissolved in it.
And hence I have defined Galvanism as the electric fire or the
grand agent, " only partially separated from its combina
tions;" by which I refer principally to oxygen and to hydrogen.
    With this in view, we may answer such questions as the
following, which have often been stated but never answered :
" Why does galvanism exist in a lower state of intensity than
electricity in producing shocks?"        Because its active energies
are Jess, being in part occupied by holding other bodies in solu
tion; from which cause it is also less attenuated, consequently less
rapid in its movements, or passes through substances with greater
 difficulty.  But   " Why again is its power in producing chemical
 effects greater than electricity?" First, because its quantity pro
 duced in a given time is so much greater; but chiefly, because
 it is combined with substances which have a powerful tendency
 to direct and fix its actions, and which are as it were the grand
 medium of communication between this power and passive
 substances; whence has arisen the proverbial fact,— »-that when
 such substances are employed in the galvanic apparatus as least
 produce this decomposition and solution of oxygen and hydrogen,
 the electrical effects are then greatest, and the chemical effects
 slightest, and not perceptible at all when there is no fluid or
 moisture present.      In this way we would explain why De Luc's
 column, which is excluded from air and moisture, produces no
                                              '
 chemical effect ; and why the electric machine produces so
 much less than that produced by the galvanic means.            Hence
 too galvanism burns charcoal with such intense brilliancy ; and
 yet the charcoal is scarcely consumed, because the oxvgen and
 hydrogen held in solution produce, in part, this effect : hence
 a wire heated by galvanism continues so longer than when
 heated by electricity; and hence we perceive the explanation of
 a very singular fact, — that the chemical effects of galvanism are
 increased by increasing the surface or size of the plates to ft
 certain extent, beyond which it ceases to have these effects.
 The explanation of this last circumstance I conceive is this :
 By increasing the size of the plates we increase the chemical
                                                                 action

                      On Chemical Philosophy.                     117
   action in each distinct division of the pile, by which the move
   ment or current is proportionally retarded and broken : but this
   retardation is of course accumulated, and hence its power to
   decompose and dissolve so much more oxygen and hydrogen.
  This quantity of oxygen and hydrogen again, to a certain extent,
  increases its chemical action ; and at the same time, from the
  motion being slower, increases the chemical power of that quan
  tity, fn this manner I conceive the partial solution of oxygen
  and hydrogen assists and modifies the chemical agencies of gal
  vanism.     If, however, this retardation is too much extended, by
  a large galvanic apparatus and by having a considerable volume
  of fluid intervening between the plates, then the galvanic fire
  or fluid becomes saturated, or its solvent and attractive powers
  become occupied and suspended, with this oxygen and hydro
  gen held in solution.    And to prove that this is the correct view,
  the series may be verv much extended, if the volume of inter
  posed fluid is in any way diminished.      Hence also it is that the
  galvanic shock is greatest on a person with a dry and tense, and
  least on a person of a moist and lax, fibre ; and that it is per
  ceptibly milder where fear does not render appearances de
  ceitful.
      Thus we perceive that when this grand agent of nature
 is more perfectly separated from its combinations, it is elec
 tricity — when partially separated, galvanism. "- When ho
 means are used to retain it in either of these states, but wljen in
 its actions it passes from one substance into another, it is ca
 loric, or fire fn its common acceptation. To confirm this view,
 every fact and experiment under their respective heads are seen
 to be mutually convertible into each other.        If caloric abounds
in an uncombined state, artificially or naturally, we easily col
lect it by the electric machine in its purest form ; — if chemical
 or natural actions of this power call forth a current faster than
it can dissolve the substances on which it acts, we obtaiti it par
tially separated, as in galvanism, &c. If the current either acts
with greater intensity on decomposable and soluble substances,
as in common combustion ; or is accumulated in quantity, but
more impeded in its progress, as in a galvanic apparatus of im
mense size, — we have it with substances dissolved in  it,   which dis
solution is   proved by the varied colours which are imparted to
flame, and    by   the oxygenating and hydrogenating effects in all
these, as well as in every other instance where the same causes
operate, as will appear  in   our consideration of light.
     If then electricity and galvanism depend on the same power,
which pervades the universe and circulates through matter, we.
perceive that this explanation or theory accords with the facts
                              H 3                                  and

  118                     On Chemical      Philosophy.
  and phaenomena of nature.           It is there evident that this powkb,
  is more or less impeded in its passage through matter, as bodies
  differ in their conducting power and capacity, and according to
 their greater or less degree of solubility in it : and hence it fol
 lows, that all things dissimilar and in contact become relatively
  to each other in excess or defective — negative or positive ; and
 of course exhibit proofs of these disturbed and deranged states.
  From the energetic reactions of this power, arising from these
 disturbances, they further either destroy each other, or assimi
 late into one, or give rise to new forms and existences.              Thus
 iron nails in sheets of copper, and every arrangement of dissi
 milar substances, either rapidly corrode or produce some decom
 position. Thus gases are produced by the strata in the earth,
 rocks of dissimilar composition moulder into soil, &c.             It is on
 these principles of derangement, and on the effort of nature to
 effect a proper distribution, that I shall attempt in these Essays
 to explain all the movements and changes of the universe, — an
 explanation which I think we shall fmd confirmed, the more
 closely we attend to the operations and phaenomena of nature
  and art.
     The explanation now given (which as far as I know is different
 from every other) is,I conceive, the true one, of the different phaeno
 mena and effects produced by electric and galvanic contrivances,
 The Electric contrivances to be hereafter explained, I propose
 to call mechanical, and the Galvanic chemical.                In both in
 stances the same grand, attractive and solvent power is called
 into action.       In electricity, this grand agent of nature is,
•from    its attraction   for substances, disturbed in its due and rela
 tive diffusion, by motion and friction ; and when these me
 chanical actions are made in a given direction, a current of this
 power is attracted and carried in the same course ; the point
 from which it is abstracted becomes negative, and in its turn de
 mands a new supply.           It is thus that the action of the electric
 machine,     and  all the facts and experiments connected with electric
 science, on these principles receive a ready explanation.           In the
 production of this power by the electric machine, as fast as.
 that part of the machine from which the revolutions of the cylin
 der recede, is robbed of its natural quantity, it demands it from
 the earth and surrounding media; (hence the necessity of a con
 ducting and communicating chain ;) while, on the other hand,
 that side to which the motion proceeds, receives this current by
 means of metallic points fixed to the prime conductor, where
 by its insulation it is retained and accumulated.          This power is
 called into action in galvanism in a different way, but still de-?
 pending on the same principles ; with this exception, as we have
                                                                   already

           Observations relating to the Figure        of the Earth.      119
already seen, that here its solvent as well as attractive pro
perties are exerted and employed.            In galvanism, the excitation
of this power, I repeat, depends on the alternate arrangement
of dissimilar metals having a fluid interposed between them, for
which the one metal has a greater affinity than the other, so that
chemical changes are the consequence: the fluid is decom
posed, and the products assume the gaseous form ; a demand is
made on this grand agent, in order to dissolve and support these
new forms of existence, which are thus produced*.               In this way
the metal in contact becomes robbed of its natural quantity,
and demands a fresh supply, which is no sooner received than it
is imparted to the metal having the stronger affinity for the fluid,
and where these changes and gaseous results require and de
mand it. Thus a current is produced alternately positive and
negative ; but which differs from electricity not only in the retar
dation these actions occasion, but in having to traverse a dif
ferent medium — an imperfect conducting fluid, by which the
current has its velocity not only further retarded and broken,
but its qualities, modified.
    All that has been now laid down will be further confirmed
by the views we shall develop when we come to Chemical
Affinity, Light, and Electricity ; when I trust I shall satisfy the
reader that I have not in the commencement held out more
than I shall be able to establish, as I proceed in executing the
task. Still, 1 trust every allowance will be made for any imper
fections which must necessarily be connected with the novelty of
the views, on so extensive and so difficult a subject as that of
not merely marking effects and phaenomena,                but the mode of
operation     and  nature   of  that power   which   produces them.
   Colliergate, York, July 15, 1818.
                            .
                               [To be continue
                                               d.]
 JCIX- Observations relating to the Operations undertaken to
    determine the Figure of tfw Earth.               By M. Biot, of the
    French Academy        of Sciences f.
When         about two centuries ago Galileo, on one of the towers
of Florence,      explained to a few individuals, in language almost
mysterious, his new discoveries respecting the laws of gravitation,
the motion of the earth, and the figure of the planets ; how lit
tle did he imagine that these truths, at that time so miscon-
   * It has been often explained how this
                                                power in different quantities,
differing in every different kind of matter, produces and sustains bodies in
all their various forms, states, and stages of existence.
   t  From the French of M. Biot.
                                      H  4                            ceived

120      Observations relating to the Operations   undertaken
 eeived and so persecuted, would, after so short an interval, be
 deemed of such importance and so generally admired, as to in—
 duce the governments of Europe to undertake great operations
 and distant voyages for the sole purpose of explaining them, and
of verifying all their relations ; and that, by the effect of an un
expected propagation of knowledge, the results of these labours
 should be presented to the attention of the public in numerous
assemblies composed of the most eminent classes of society !
Yet such is the great change which has been effected in the fate
of the sciences since that period.
    When Galileo and Bacon appeared, they found the sciences
only on the brink of being — for it would be inaccurate to give
the name of science to that mass of useless hypothetical specu
lation of which all natural philosophy previously consisted. The
aim of the ancients was rather to divine than to investigate na
tural causes.    The art of examining nature in order to con
strain her to reveal her secrets was unknown ; — it remained for
Galileo and Bacon to make this discovery.        They evinced that
the human mind is too feeble, and too evanescent in its efforts,
to advance by its own strength through the labyrinth of natural
facts ; that it is necessary at every new step of its progress to
rest upon and to cla&sify those phsenomeua which approximate-
to one another ; and that in the multiplied opportunities which
nature offers for inquiry, experiments industriously imagined are'
requisite to conduct to a course of new phenomena which shall
neither entangle nor mislead. •
    Such has been the felicity of this mode of investigation, that
in less than two centuries, discoveries without number, and cer
tain and durable, have illustrated every department of science;^
the arts have rapidly participated in their beneficial effects; in
dustry has been enriched with many wonderful applications, and
a sum of knowledge has been accumulated a thousand times,
greater than that of which antiquity could ever boast. As the
sciences, however, have thus been enlarged, they have grown be
yond the reach of any single individual to attain.        So large a
sphere could no longer be embraced but by a numerous literary
body, which in its aggregate capacity similar to one mind should^
unite all conceptions, views and thoughts; and which, inter
rupted neither by human infirmities nor the decline of reason, or
 age, but always young and always vigorous, should incessantly
scrutinize the peculiar properties of natural objects, discover the
 powers concealed in them, and at last present them to society
 prepared and ready for application.     In a central body such as
this, where opinions have the freest operation, no authority can
 prevail, if it be not that of reason and of nature.      The voice
 even of a Plato himself could no longer gain attention in such
                                                                  an

                   to determine the Figure      of the Earth.            121
    an assembly to the brilliant reveries of his imagination ; and the
    genius of a Descartes would be constrained faithfully to adhere
    to that mode of observation and of doubt which he himself had
    promulgated, and not pretend to exhibit truth unmixed with
    error : nor with all their glory could Plato and Descartes be now
    regarded as more than mere elementarv branches of this great
    organ of the sciences : — its force would outlive their genius', and
    carry into futurity the gradual development of their thoughts,
    -i— Such is now the noble, destiny of learned societies. Thesimul-
    taneousness and the durability which their institution gives to
    the efforts of mortals, complete the power of the experimental
    method.      They alone can in future give continuity to the pro
    gress of knowledge; they alone can develop grand theories, and
    produce results which, by their difficulty, by their diversity, by
    the perseverance and the extent of exertion which they require,
    could never be attained by individuals.
        To determine the size and figure of the earth ; to measure
    the gravity at the surface, to ascertain its connexion with the
    interior construction, with the disposition of the strata, and the
    laws of their densities, are of the number of those important ques
     tions which learned societies alone could resolve.             During a
     century   and   a  half   they   have   formed    a chief object of the
,   Academy of Sciences.         The first exact measurement of a degree
     of the terrestrial meridian was made in France by Picard in 1670.'
     Newton availed himself of       it,   in order to establish the law of
     universal gravity.      Richer, who was sent        by  the Academy to
     Cayenne, two years after, to make astronomical researches, dis
     covered that his clock, which at Paris beat the seconds, went
     gradually more slowly as he approached the equator         ;    and that
    it  again  went  quicker,  by  the  same   degrees, in returning towards
     the north, so as to resume exactly its original motion at the point'
     of his departure.     Again, according to the discoveries of Hiiy-
     gens, the quickness of the oscillations of     a    pendulum augments
     or diminishes with the intensity of the gravity which causes its
     motion.     His observation proved that this intensity was different
     in different latitudes, and that      it   increased in going from the
     equator to the pole.       Newton in his Principles of Natural Phi
     losophy connected all these results with the law of attraction.
      He showed that the variation observed in gravity disclosed            a
     flattening of the earth at the poles;      a  circumstance which  is also
      observable in the form of Jupiter, Saturn, and the other planets
      which turn upon an axis.         He conceived that this flattened form
      wasa   consequence   of  the  even  attraction of the portions of every
      planet, combined    by  the centrifugal force of its rotatory motion.
      But in order that the arrangement determined              by  these two
      kinds of forces should thus have been able to make itself ef
                                                                      fectual,

    122    Observations relating to the Operations undertaken
   fectual, it behoved these great bodies to have been originally
   fluid.   He took them then as in that state, and showed how to
   calculate the flattening of a planet, according to the intensity of
   the gravity at its surface and the quickness of its rotation, sup
   posing its mass to be homogeneous. This theory, applied to the
   earth, gave a variation of gravity but little different from that
   observed by Richer, though somewhat slighter, indicating that
   the earth is composed of strata of which the density goes on in
   creasing from the surface to the centre, as Clairault has since
   demonstrated.
      For some time the calculations of Newton were the only in
   ductions for believing the earth to be flattened at the poles. The
   arc of the meridian measured by Picard was sufficient to give
   the length of the semidiameter of the earth at the place where
   it was observed ; but that arc was much too small even for
   showing imperfectly the effect of the flattening.    More accurate
   knowledge was expected to be procured from the measurement
   of the complete arc which traverses France from Perpignan to
   Dunkirk, which was intended to serve as the axis of a general
   map of France, with the execution of which Colbert had in
   trusted the Academy.      But in the imperfect state of the instru
   ments and astronomical methods of that period, this arc itself
   was too short to make the influence of the flattening distinctly
                ; and the small variations which thence result in the
  {)erceptible
    ength of the consecutive degrees, might very easily be lost in
   the errors of the observations, as was indeed actually the case.
  The differences which the degrees presented, were found from
  the effects of these errors, in such a direction as would have led
  to the result of elongation at the poles, in place of flattening.
  The Academy was not intimidated.         It perceived that the ques
  tion could not be accurately decided without measuring two
  arcs of the meridian, the one near the equator and the other
  near the pole.      In the year 1735, Bouguer, Godin, and La
  Condamine were sent to America, where they joined the Spanish
  commissioners.      Clairault, Maupertuis and Le Monnier de-
  parted for the North.      The results of these expeditions com
  pletely ascertained the flattening of the earth, but its absolute
/ amount still remained uncertain.      The degree of Peru compared
  with that of France, gave a slighter flattening than if the earth,
  was homogeneous ; the sphere of Lapland indicated a greater-.
  In this uncertainty the lengths of the pendulum which they were
  careful to measure, agreed with the flattening deduced from the
  operation at the equator ; but the exactness of these measure
  ments, especially in the sphere of Lapland, was not such as
  could enable them to solve the difficulty.
     Matters remained in this state for fifty years. Meanwhile Bou
                                                                 guer,

                    to determine the Figure   of the Earth.          123
  guer, LaCondamine, Clairault, and Maupertuis died; and itwa*
  only when astronomical instruments became more perfect, that
  the fact of the flattening at the poles could be accurately ascer
  tained.     The Academy gave still more importance to these re
  searches by proposing to take the measurement of the earth as'
  the fundamental element of a system of general and, uniform
  measures, of which all the parts would be connected by simple
  relations, and in accordance with our mode of numeration.          The
  Academy hopes that such a system, founded upon natural ele
  ments, invariable and independent of the prejudices of the peo
  ple, will ultimately become as common to all, as are now the
  Arabian ciphers, the division of time, and the calendar.          This
  wish was long ago expressed by the best and the most enlightened
  of our kings. The proposal for carrying it into effect was one
  of the last sighs of the Academy, and the act which decided its'
  execution was one of the last which preceded the fatal epoch of
  our great political convulsions.      All the institutions tending to
  maintain     civilization and  knowledge perished, and the Academy
  perished with them.         But men of science prosecute without au
   thority what they esteem useful. In the midst of the disorders
   of popular anarchy, MM. Delambre and Mechain, furnished
   with the new instruments of Borda, commenced and prosecuted,,         ,
   often at the risk of their lives, the most extensive and exact
   measurement of the earth.         They concluded it with the same
   perfection, though     not  with the same ease, as if it had been In
   times of the most profound tranquillity.       Nor was the measure-
«  ment of the pendulum neglected.           Borda, who had so far ad
   vanced every other mode of observation, invented for this experi
   ment a method,, the exactness of which surpassed every thing
   previously known, and which has never been surpassed.
       After these operations, it was thought that the arc might be
   continued many degrees south across Catalonia, and that it
   might be possible to prolong it to the Balearic isles by means
   of an immense triangle, of which the sides extending over the
   sea shquld join these islands to the coast of Valentia.      Mechain
   devoted himself to this operation : but after having surveyed all
   the chain and measured the first triangles, he died of a fever in
   Valentia. M.Arago and myself were intrusted with the completion
   of the work, along with the commissioners of the king of Spain.
   We had the good fortune to succeed; but, as is well known,
   M. Arago did not return to France without encountering great
   danger, and after a distressing captivity.      Our results confirmed
    those of thcarc of France, and gave them a new proof of accuracy.
    After the method of Borda, we also measured at our remote sta
    tion the lengths of the seconds pendulum. M. Matthieu and myself
                                                                repeated

 124    Observations relating to the Operations undertaken
repeated the same operations upon different points of the are »
comprised between Perpignau and Dunkirk. These experiments
gave for the flattening of the earth a value almost equal to that
which M. Delambre had already obtained, by comparing the
arc of France and Spain with the degrees of the equator, hut
calculated with more accuracy, and corrected by the degree of
Lapland, which Mr. Svanbe>-g, an able Swedish astronomer, had
certified by new observations ; and finally, with an arc of many
degrees which Major Lambton had measured with great accu
racy in the British possessions of India.
     Confirmed by so many combinations, our arc of France and
Spam had a good title to become a fundamental model for mea
sures. An occasion occurred of rendering it still more impor
tant. Since the rebellion of 1745, the English government had
perceived the utility of constructing a detailed map of the three
kingdoms, which should equally serve to direct the amelioration
of the country in peace and its defence in war.           I may state, in
passing,    that  it is the war for  twenty years back  which  has given
to geodesiacal operations the great extension and the extreme
perfection which they have acquired in all the states of Europe.
 However this may be, the English triangulation begun by Ge
neral Roy, and continued after him by Colonel Mudge, was pro
longed from the south of England to the north of Scotland, and
 presented in that extent many degrees of the terrestrial meri
 dian measured with excellent instruments.          It was desirous that
this arc should be joined to tha.1 of France.          But as from the
 geographical position of England she is placed a little to the             »
westward of ours, there was reason to fear, lest, all the terrestrial
 meridians not being exactly alike, the difference of longitude
 Would affect the results which might be obtained from that
junction.      Nevertheless, there could be no dread of this, so far
 as concerned the measurements of the pendulum, which are
 much less disturbed than the decrees by the slight irregula
 rities of the figure of the earth. The Board of Longitude was
 desirous that the same apparatus which had served for these
 measurements in France and Spain, should he employed through
 the whole extent of the English arc.           The consent of govern-,
 ment   and   the   approbation   of   men of science in England were
 necessary.      Neither the one nor the other was wanting.           The
 respectable Sir Joseph Banks and his worthy friend Sir Charles
 Blagden assured us of all imaginable facilities.          M. Laine the
 minister of the interior, with whom every thing useful or honour
 able has only possibility for its limits, was able to furnish means
 for this enterprise) and the Board of Longitude had the good-,
 ness to intrust me with its execution.
                                                                    I  left

                  to determine the   Figure   of the Earth.              125
     I left Paris in the beginning of May last year, carrying with
tne the apparatus made use of in other points of the meridian:
a repeating circle by M. Fortin, an astronomical clock and chro
nometers by M. Breguet; — in fine, every thing necessary for the
 observations.      Orders from the English government, obtained
through     the  vigilant intervention of Sir Joseph Banks, awaited
 our arrival at Dover.       The whole was sent to me quite entire,
 under the seal of the Customs, without fees, without inspection,
 as if 1 had not passed from one country into another. Every thing
 was protected with the same care in the carriage to London,
 and was at last deposited in the house of Sir Joseph Banks.
 How can I describe what I felt for the first time on seeing the
 venerable companion of Cook, rendered illustrious by his long
 voyages, remarkable for a stretch of mind and an elevation of
 feeling which interest him in the progress of every species of hu
 man knowledge!          Possessing high rank, an independent fortune,
 and universal respect, Sir Joseph has rendered all these advantages
 the patrimony of the learned of all nations.            So simple, so easy
 in his kindness,     it almost  seems  as if he  felt the  obligation were
 on his part ; and at the same time he is so good that he leaves
 us all the pleasure of gratitude.         What a noble example of a
  protection, whose sole authority is founded in esteem, respect,
  free and voluntary confidence; whose titles consist only in an in
  exhaustible good will, and in the recollection of services rendered;
  and the long and uncontested possession of which necessarily
  supposes rare virtues and an exquisite delicacy, more especially
  when we recollect that all this power is formed, maintained and
  exercised among equals !
      Favoured by these honourable auspices, every thing became
  easy.     Colonel Mudge, who had shown himself most favourably
  disposed towards our enterprise, seconded it by every means in
  his power.      We left Edinbirgii together, and fixed our first sta
  tion in the Fort of Leith, where Colonel Elphinston, the com
  mandant, afforded us all the accommodation in his power.                   I
  required a situation where the view was open, and also sheltered,
  to erect my circle.      I constructed a portable observatory which
   could be taken down at pleasure, so as to allow me to make obser
   vations on all the sides of the horizon.              It was necessary,
   however, that the apparatus of the pendulum should be fixed
   with, solidity ; and for this purpose stones of the weight of sixty
   quintals were fixed in thick walls with iron chains.          Every thing
   that could be useful was lavished upon me, and if my observa
   tions were incorrect it was my own fault.              Unfortunately the
   health of Colonel Mudge did not permit him to accompany me;
   but his place was supplied by one of bis sons, Captain Richard
   Mudge, with whom I completed my labours. After they were
                                                                      finished

  126    Observations relating to the Operations undertaken
 finished at the Fort it was necessary to go and repeat them, ill
 the Orkneys, the uttermost limit of the English arc.       But Col.
 Mudge perceived that it was possible to connect the Orkneys
 with the Shetland isles, by triangles whose apices should rest
 upon the isles, or rather upon the intermediate rocks, of Faro
 and Foula.     This plan extended the new arc two degrees to the
 north, and this was sufficient to decide the matter.       The ar-
 Tangement had     still another  advantage,  of very different  im
 portance, which consisted in carrying the English line of opera
tion two degrees towards the east, almost upon the meridian of
 Formentera.     By this fortunate change the English operation
became the prolongation of ours, and the two together form an
arc almost equal to the fourth part of the distance from the pole
to the equator.     If one might hope that the different nations of
 Europe would agree to choose the base of a common system of
measures in nature, is there not here an element the most beau
tiful and the most certain that could be adopted ? And this
 arc, which leaving the Balearic isles, traverses Spain, France,
England, Scotland, and stops at the rocks of the ancient Thule^
being taken in combination with the flattening of the earth,
which is deduced from the measurement of the pendulum, or
from the theory of the moon, — will it not give for fundamental
unity, a measure the most complete, and 1 dare say the most
 European that can ever be expected ?
    When the possibility of this great project was conceived, it
 absorbed all our thoughts: hut the delicate health of Colonel
Mudge did not permit him to realize these hopes in person, and
he intrusted the execution to one of his officers.     He gave me
his son, whose assistance had been of such service, and which
might still be of much more.        My apparatus, the portable ob
servatory, the large stones and the iron chains were all embarked,
with the instruments of the English operation, in the Investigator
brig-of-war, commanded by Captain George Thomas, whose ac
tivity and skill do not certainly stand in need of any praise of
mine, but whose politeness demands all my gratitude.            This
 officer was so good as to take me on board his ship to Aberdeen,
Where, during a short stay, I experienced the most distinguished
hospitality. On the 9th of July we sailed for Shetland.          We
were long at sea, and bitterly regretted the loss of so many fine
nights for observations.      Leaving the Orkney mountains upon
our left, on the sixth day we discovered the Isle of Faro, which
saw the vessel of the Invincible Armada broken to pieces upon
her rocks.     The peaks of Shetland appeared, and on the 18th
 of July we landed near the southern point of the isles, where the
Atlantic billows uniting with those which come from the sea of
 Norway, cause a continual swell and a perpetual tempest.

              to determine the  Figure of the Earth.              127
    The desolate aspect of the island corresponded with the soil
tmd climate.      It was no longer those fortunate isles of Spain,
those smiling countries, Valentia, that garden where the orange
and the lemon trees in flower shed their perfumes around the
tomb of a Seipio, or over the majestic ruins of the ancient Sa-
guntum. Here, on landing upon the rocks fissured by the waves}
the eye sees nothing but a soil wet, desert, and covered with
stones and moss, and cragged mountains scarred by the incle
mency of the heavens ; not a tree nor shrub nor bush to soften the-
savage aspect : here and there some scattered huts, whose roofs
coveted with thatch allowed the thick smoke with which they
are filled to escape into the fog.     Reflecting on the sadness of
this abode, where we were about to remain in exile during
many months, we took a direction across pathless plains and hills
towards the small assemblage of small stone houses forming the
capital called Lerwick.       There we felt that the social virtues of
a country were not to be estimated by the appearance of poverty
or riches.     It is impossible to conceive hospitality more free,
more cordial, than that with which we were received.            People
who but a little before were ignorant of our names, were eager
to conduct us every where.       Informed of the design of our visit,
they collected and communicated every sort of useful informa
tion. In particular Dr. Edmonston, a well-informed physician,
who has published a Description of the Shetland Islands, gave us
 a letter to his brother, who resides in the isle of Unst, which af
 forded us a station about half a degree north of Lerwick, where
 we resolved to make our experiments.           But arrived at Unst,
 we were constrained, from the local situation of the island, to
 transfer ourselves to a small island called Balla, at the entrance
of the principal bay of Unst, where we disembarked our instru
 ments.    But upon a more close examination of this station, its
exposure to the winds, the moisture which prevailed in abun
dance, the remoteness from every habitation, and the many dif
 ficulties which presented themselves to an establishment suited
 to the pendulum — made us resolve to return to Unst, and to ask
 a reception in the only house which was in sight, which hap
 pened very luckily to be that of Dr, Edmonston 's brothers          A•
 large sheepfold (empty because it     was now   summer) whose walls
 were capable of resisting every storm, received the apparatus of
 the pendulum. The portable observatory together with the repeat
 ing circle were placed in the garden.        With great labour we
 dragged the stones to the place of their destination.     It required
 all the efforts of the brig's crew, guided and animated by their
 officers.  On the 2d of August we commenced our observations,
 and on the i Oth made the first experiment with the pendulum!
 On the I7th we had made eight of these experiments, and 270
                                                          observations

 128    Observations relating to the Operations undertaken
observations of the latitude.    I was now certain of success, and
perseverance was only necessary.      It was no small disadvantage
that Captain Mudge became greatly indisposed; and a whaler
having touched at the island, I with difficulty prevailed upon him
to return to a more genial climate.        He invested me with all
the powers of his father, and afforded all necessary assistance.
When left alone, I found the advantage of residing with Mr.Ed-
monston.      His kindness increased with my difficulties.      The
operation of the repeating circle required two persons, one to
follow the star and another to mark the indications of the level.
A young carpenter, who by his fitting up the observatory had
given proof of his intelligence, (and who, similar to the generality
of the peasants in Scotland, could read, write, and cipher.) was
by the advice of Mr. Edmonston employed for the latter part of
the observation. He acquitted himself better than a more learned
assistant; for he observed and marked my level with the fidelity
and the accuracy of a mechanic, and even to satisfy my impa
tience would not admit my results until the bubble of the level
was in a state of perfect immobility. With this assistant, in two
months I collected 38 series of the pendulum, each of five or
six hours, 1400 observations of the latitude in 55 series made
equally on the south and the north of the zenith, and, to regu
late my clock, about 1200 observations of the absolute heights
of the sun and stars. After this I was chiefly employed in ob
serving, and only made three or four calculations ; but the re-"
mai rider since my return home I have found accurate.        The re
sults which are deduced from them, being combined with those
of Formentera of the arc of France, give for the flattening of
the earth exactly the same value which is deduced from the
theory of the moon, and the measurement of the degrees com
pared at great distances.     This perfect agreement between de
terminations so different, shows at once the certainty of the re
sult, and the sure method which science employs to obtain it.
Nor was this point of precision reached without great difficulty,
as is obvious from the fact — that the variation of the length of
 the pendulum by which the flattening is measured, is in all, from
the equator to the pole, but four " millimetres," less than two
lines, and from Formentera to Unst, one         " millimetre and a
half," or less than three-fourths of a line.    This small portion,
however, exhibits and measures even with great accuracy the
flattening of the whole terrestrial spheroid, and proves that in
spite of slight accidents of composition and arrangement, which
this exterior and slender surface presents, the interior of the mass
is composed of strata perfectly regular, and subjected to the laws
                                                .......
of superposition, density and formx which a primitive state of
fluidity had assigned to them.          .   ..

               to determine the Figure    of the Earth.            129
    But however great the pleasure of having completed my ope
rations, if I had immediately departed from the rocks of Balta
to my own country, my sentiments would have been specifically
different concerning these isles.     The dreariness of their situa
tion, the poverty of their soil, and the inclemency of their sky,
would have accompanied me, and I should have remained ig
norant that they contain sensible, kind, virtuous, and enlight
ened inhabitants.      Nor should I have been able to discover the
charm which these pathless barren regions— the region of rain, of
tempest, and of sterility — have to reconcile them to such hard
ships.
    Peace and not plenty constitutes this charm.        The sound of
a drum has not been heard in Unst for twenty-five years, while
 Europe was wasting her best blood ; and during all that period
the door of the house where I resided had not been shut day or
night. Neither conscription nor press-gang had afflicted the
inhabitants of these peaceful isles.       Their rough seas protect
them from the incursions of privateers, and their poverty is still
a stronger defence.      These people receive the intelligence of the
transactions   of  the continent, as they would read the history. of
other times.      Their calm and contracted situatiou gives to their
mode of life a charm unknown in other climes.             They live in
one great family.       But the strength of affection produces the
extreme of grief upon death or separation.         When death enters
the dwellings of those whose affections are so concentrated, it
comes in all its bitterness. Nor are the grief and sorrow much less
when a son, or a brother, or a friend takes his journey to another
 country, for seldom does their own little isle contain the children
 with the fathers. , A small portion around their huts is all the
 soil that is cultivated; and horses and sheep almost in a wild
 state pasture the remainder.    A principal part of their wealth and
 support   is procured   from  the tremendous waves and billows of
 the ocean, which with unexampled boldness they combat in
 quest of fish.     When the weather is good the toil becomes a
 pleasure; but when the sea becomes tempestuous, the struggle in
 their uncovered boats is violent.    Under their guidance I have
 found myself calm when contemplating those lofty cliffs of primi
 tive rocks — -that ancient structure of the globe, whose strata lie
 inclined towards the sea, and, undermined at their base by the
 fury of the waves, seem threatening to bury under their ruins
 the frail bark which bounds at their feet.
    Carrying with me the most agreeable recollections, I took
 leave of these isles after a residence of two mouths.       An equi
 noctial gale conveyed us in fifty hours to Edinburgh. Returned
 to Colonel Elphinston, I experienced that hospitality had not
 retired to the Shetland isles.      Having finished my particular
     Vol. 52. No. 244. Aug. 1818.                1            labours,

130 On the Observations to determine        Jhe Figure of the Earth.
labours, an opportunity was afforded to consider the situation of
the country; the character, the manners, the institutions, and the
pursuits of the inhabitants.     The review was both consoling and
sorrowful, to one whose days had been spent amid wars and com
motions.     Here dwelt a people poor, but laborious ; /free, but
submissive to the laws ; moral and religious, without sternness or
 indifference.    The peasants were seen reading the Essays of
 Addison, Pope, Johnson, Chesterfield, and the most approved of
 the English moralists.      Even in the passage-boats cards and
 dice were exhibited.      Village farmers were seen in clubs dis
cussing the topics of politics and of agriculture; and these formed
 into societies to purchase the most entertaining and instructive
 works, the Encyclopedia Britannica not excepted.             I saw, in
fine,  the higher  classes adorning  in  an  eminent degree  their sta
 tions, by exciting     and directing   all  the enterprises of  public
utility, mingling with the vulgar, but preserving a noble supe
riority, procuring respect without exciting envy, and enjoying as
 the reward of their .exertions, peace, union, reciprocal esteem,
mutual confidence, and a lively affection.
    I next visited the most industrious counties of industrious
England. I saw there the powers of nature employed in the
service of man under every supposable shape, and man himself
reserved for those operations which mind alone can direct and
perform ; but I rather admired that immense display of manufac
tures, than wished to see them established in my own country.
After visiting Oxford and Cambridge, those ancient abodes of
learning, I went to rejoin M. Arago in London, to measure the
seconds of the pendulum no longer in a desert, but in the mag
nificent Observatory at Greenwich.            M. Humboldt attended
him, assisted in the operation, and meanwhile seemed to forget
the multitude of his other talents in his labours as an excellent
astronomer. The Astronomer Royal manifested that generous ar
dour which men devoted to the progress of science, alone can feel.
    After such success, and brought under so many pleasing obli
gations, I returned to my native country.         The pleasure of ob
serving the heavens, of studying one of the greatest phaenomena
of nature with fine instruments, by so many observations, and in
a place renowned for so many astronomical discoveries, enabled
me to confer a lasting tribute of gratitude upon the place of my
birth. In a voyage undertaken for the advancement of science,
the stranger learns what to honour and what to cherish.          With
out the circle of political passions, without rank, withdut am
bition, his principal aim is to do good to mankind.          He is en
nobled by the numerous services which he has rendered to the
civilization of the world, by the universal admiration which he
has excited, and by those intellectual stores with which he has
                                                              enriched

                  On the Means of curing the Dry-Rot.               131
 enriched the arts and sciences.      Similar to Minerva, that coun
 try accompanies him into a foreign land ; she speaks for him,
 introduces him, protects him, and claims in his favour an hospi
 tality which she has often nobly conferred.       Having reached the
 end of his labours, and while relating to his countrymen the re
 ception, the assistance, the kindness, the friendship received
from a celebrated nation, he experiences in the expression of his
 gratitude a pleasure so much the more pure, that he feels sensi
 ble that all these favours were less conferred on himself, than
 through him on his country.
   XX. On     the  Means   of curing the Dry-Rot,     By A Corre
                                spondent.
                            To  Mr.  Tilloch.
Sir, — Observing in          the public papers and periodical works
the havoc the dry-rot has made in our shipping and public and
private buildings, and having, I presume, found out substances
for the preservation of wood from dry-rot ; I take the liberty of
stating the composition and mode of applying them.
    First. Make a strong caustic solution in water of barilla, kelp,
or potash, and when boiling hot, wash the parts of the wood af
fected with the rot. The effect of this caustic ley will be the
destruction of the vegetating fibres of the fungus.
    Secondly. Dissolve oxide of lead or iron in pyrolignous acid ;
and twelve hours after the first application of the leys soak the
wood well with this solution.        A decomposition of the metallic
liquor   takes  place;  the acid  and  alkali unite, and the oxide of
the lead or iron is precipitated in the pores of the wood, and, pre
vents the fungus from spreading.
    Another way of preventing the rot is: first, to wash the wood
with the pyrolignous solution of lead, and ten or twelve hours after
to wash it with a strong solution of alum (in the proportion of
one pound and a half of alum to one gallon of water).
    Since writing the above,' I have seen in your Philosophical
Magazine an Essay by Mr. Gavin Inglis, recommending sulphate
of iron to prevent the dry-rot. I think you will find the iron li
quor in my process preferable, as the alkaline solution precipi
tates the oxide of the metal in the pores of the wood.          I have
paling now     in good preservation,  that was  put up fourteen   years
ago, with staves of old iron liquor pipes and puncheons, and never
painted.     The wood is hard, and can scarcely be cut with a
knife ; the liquor has penetrated into the pores of the wood, and
contracted or filled them up.
                                                    •
                                   12                              Mr.

132                    Notices respecting New Bonks.
   Mr. Inglis recommends that all kind of timber should be eut
after the fall of the leaf, &c.      This every judicious man will ap
prove of ; but the loss of the bark will be a great obstacle to its
being put in practice.        If the trees were peeled at the proper
season for such work, and cut down in the fall of the year, or
left standing two years to season, the loss of bark would be pre
vented, and the timber well seasoned for ship-building or other
purposes.
   Chester,   July 24, 1818.                                         I.I.
                   XXI.   Notices respecting New Books.
Memoires sur la Marine et les Ponts et Chaussees de France et
    d' Angleterre ; conlenant deux Relations de Voyages Jaits par
    V Auteur dam les Ports d' Angleterre, d'Ecosse et d'Irlaiide,
   .en 1816, 1817 et 1818; la Description de la Jet tee de Ply
    mouth, et da Canal Calidonien, etc. — " Memoirs on the Ma
    ritime Works and Civil Engineering of France and England,
    by M. Ch. Dufin, Engineer of the French Navy."
 [For the following interesting notice of this work of M. Dupin, we are in
     debted to the pen of another able French engineer, M. Bosquillou de
     Jenlie.]
 During the fourth part of a century, war, and still more a
 suspicious policy, had kept France in total ignorance respecting
 the internal condition of Great Britain.          Thus far, at least, the
 pretended     blockade   of the  United   Kingdoms, had been realized.
 But in the very time (especially from 1812 to IS 14) that it was
 attempted by documents and accounts, ex officio, to represent
 England as in the last stage of exhaustion, the nation was, in
 truth, rising to an unparalleled state of splendour and wealth.
 This wonderful effect was more particularly exemplified in the
 sea-port towns; some of which, as Liverpool, were doubling in a
 few years a population of 50,000 souls.            But not only in such
 towns as were eminently aided by their local position, but every
 where in Great Britain immense establishments and magnificent
 constructions displayed the national wealth and the improvement
 of the arts. One might there observe stupendous maritime works,
 superior to all the constructions which a government with- the
 disposal of all the treasures of Europe had raised on the banks
 of the Seiue, achieved in three years on the banks of the Thames
 by a single society of merchants.
     Since peace has reestablished an intercourse between two
 nations worthy of contending in other arts than war, various
 French travellers have presented their countrymen with pictures
 of the manners of Great Britain, with descriptions more or less
                                                                    witty,

                      Notices respecting New Books.                   133
 witty, but often tainted by illiberal reflections, the consequences
 of long feuds.     It was quite a new, and by far more interesting
 point  of view, to consider all the changes wrought, the wonders
 performed during the course of twenty-five years, bv the efforts
 of industry, the improvement of the arts, the concurrence and
 activity of a whole nation animated by the same spirit. Such
 is the true aspect under which the author of the book before us
 has viewed Great Britain in his journeys during the years 181(5,
  1817 and 1818.       In this extensive display of the results of Eng
 lish industry, the author was of course obliged to limit his views;
 and he particularly confined himself to exhibiting the industry of
 the nation in the applications to three branches of public ser
 vice ; viz. hydraulic works, and military and naval constructions.
    In the field though thus limited there was still a rich harvest
 to gather ; but the task was not without its difficulties.        It re
 quired a varied knowledge in the arts of construction and other
 public services ; an eagerness and perseverance that should over
 come all the obstacles which, in a foreign country, incessantly
impede the traveller ; a great talent of observation ; and finally,
 such introductions and connexions as might shield him from the
 consequences of national jealousy.         Such were the qualifications
 requisite to bring the undertaking to a successful completion :
 and the book before us shows that in none of rhem has the au
 thor been deficient.      Ered in a school* out of which no sound
mind can come without being imbued with valuable information
respecting the various public services ; a fellow of several learned
societies, which he has enriched with his memoirs; and favoured
by a happy combination of circumstances^ — the laboratory of the
artist, the port -folio of the engineer, and the closet of the learned,
have all laid open their treasures to his inspection.          Such ad
vantages    lead us to  place much  confidence    upon the results which
he has offered to the learned world.
    The memoirs now published comprehend but a succinct ac
count, divested of all scientific and abstracted particulars, of one
of the three subjects of his journey; that which treats of the
public works in England. The one which relates to artillery and
militaryengineering has been appreciated in a way highly honour
able for the author, in a Report made to the Academy of Sciences,
by a judge whose opinion in all that regards military science
must always command respect — the Marshal Duke de Rtigusa.
    In the memoirs which are a compendium of both his journeys
in Great Britain, the author first treats of that city which the
national partiality has distinguished (as Rome anciently was) by
the emphatic appellation of the town.           He takes a view of Lon-
                         * The Polytechnidt   school.                    t
                                     I 3                              don

134               Notices respecting     New Books.
don under three different aspects : — as the largest trading port of
England ; as the chief focus of the industry in the mechanical
arts ; lastly, as the centre of the operations of the navy.    After
having described the extensive bed of the Thames covered with
innumerable ships, which scarcely leave room for sailing; after-
having described those numerous and magnificent basins for
trade, newly constructed and distinguished by the name of docks, — >
the author enters into some interesting particulars about systems
of construction which essentially differ from ours, the internal
sections and external figure of their wharfs, as well as of their
large sluice-gates, their cast-iron swing bridges ; also respecting
the use of the iron rail-roads for all sorts of conveyances by means
pf hand or horse-carts.       He describes the process of dredging,
which is advantageously employed in cleansing docks and deepen
ing rivers.    It consists in boats or vessels equipped with buckets
 put  in motion   by the machine generally used in Great Britain,
 and become in that country, for the mechanical aits, what the
 plough is for husbandry — the steam-engine.
    Another not less ingenious and remarkable process is that of
 the diving-bell, which enables the workmen to work as on dry
 land at a great depth under water.        This apparatus, in which
 nothing conducive to the safety and accommodation of the work
 man has been omitted, is used with the utmost success by the
 engineer who superintends the most part of the maritime works,
 in England, and the building of the finest bridges in London,
 Mr.Rennie, whose name is so often mentioned in these Memoirs.
 From him, as well as Mr. Telford*, the author has particularly
 received much valuable information, and the most kind recep
tion.
   After describing a great and curious shed 1300 feet long, en
tirely of iron, from the pillars that prop  to the very roof, and
                                                 it,
built by the same gentleman, the author shows us several en
gines not less eminent for ingenuity than for their extensive ap
plication.    One feels a satisfaction mixed with regret in re-:
marking,   in aforeign country, as the inventor of many ingenious
machines, the name? of     Frenchman, M. Brunei.
                            a
   As appendages to London, looked upon as the centre of the
great operations of the navy, one may consider the fine docks
and establishments of Deptford, Greenwich, Woolwich, which
the traveller describes, in going down the river toSheerness;
a   port created anew, the works of which give occasion to
some most interesting remarks.       One of them deserves   parti- a
     * M. Dupin in his Memoirs pays eveiy where with the greatest pleasure
 his debt of gratitude for the benevolence and liberality of these two gentle
 men, as well as of their friends and brother-engineers MM. Nimmo, Jardine,
 &c. &c.
                                                                       cular

                      Notices respecting  New Booh.                   135
   cular notice, as offering one of the finest conquests of art over
  nature.
      This military port, founded on a marshy island at the con
   fluence of the Channel and Medway, was, notwithstanding all
   the advantages of its position, deprived of one of the chief re
   quisites in a naval establishment, — it had no sweet water, and.
  it was necessary to carry it at a great expense from a neighbour
  ing port.      The bold idea was conceived of seeking for some
   spring far below the bottom of the channel and sea.              They
   were enabled by art to dig and sink to. a depth of 350 feet : there
   they found a spring of sweet water, which spouting with impe
   tuosity filled up the well to within two yards of the top, and then
   sunk again to forty.     Ever since it has afforded a plentiful sup
   ply of good water.
      We cannot follow the author through all the places which he
  has successively visited in both his journeys, and which compre
   hend nearly all the ports of the United Kingdoms.            From the
  most powerful recommendations        he got admittance   into  both the
  great arsenals of the English navy, Portsmouth and Plymouth.
   He also visited Bristol and Liverpool, the two chief trading ports
  next to London; Birmingham, noted for its beautiful manufac
   tures; Newcastle, justly famed for extensive and valuable coal
  pits ; Sunderland, distinguished by her magnificent iron bridge,
  under which ships of 4 to 500 tons are daily sailing; Edinburgh,
   become by the culture of the sciences, the Athens of the north ;
   Glasgow, Dublin, &c. — all of which places are by turns the sub
  ject of the most valuable descriptions and interesting remarks.
  Everywhere in the inland country, as well as in the sea-port
   towns, new constructions and numerous establishments evince
   a recent prosperity, and the greatest improvements in all the arts.
   On observing these, we are naturally led to inquire into the cause
  which has produced all these wonders.         It is the same which in
   1792 gave to France such a superiority in the arts of war — ne
   cessity.    Great Britain, in her turn, attacked by the whole con
   tinent, could only oppose the efforts of her trade and industry ;
  and in this struggle, which appeared so unequal, the friend of
   the arts forgets all national rivalry, to attend only to operations
"
  and works which attest the power of the human mind, the bene-,
  fit of equitable laws, and the energy of national character.
      To the compendium of both his journeys the author has sub
  joined two memoirs, intended to describe two magnificent works
  which are now in execution in Great Britain — the Caledonian
   canal, and the jetty of Plymouth.
      The former, which has been planned by Mr. Telford, a very
  skilful engineer, is intended to open, through a very singular
  valley in the Highlands of Scotland, a communication between
                                    14                                the

136                   Notices respecting New Books.
the North and Atlantic seas by a canal, which from its large
scale, and the extensive lakes through which it passes, should
rather ha looked upon as an artificial arm of the sea, on which
ships of 4 and 500 tons and 20 feet draught of water can sail.
    The other work, — the jetty at Plymouth, — reminds us of the
grand works at Cherbourg. The bold conception achieved at
Cherbourg, of founding in the open sea a huge mole, an artifi
cial island, intended to secure a space of water, forming a road,
against the winds and waves, has been likewise applied to Ply
mouth.        But the English had not, like us, large and expensive
experiments to try, in order to construct that mole which they
call by a term denoting its destination, Break-water. The mole,
erected at three miles from the bottom of the road (the Sound),
stretches to an extent of 4200 feet in a straight chief line, ter-.
minated by two short ones slightly directed inwards, between
which and the shore there are two passes, the one westerly, the
other easterly.         It is built in the way termed by us a pierres
perdues, with enormous blocks of stone, of more than 20,000
pounds weight, which form the nucleus.            The hollow and uneven
parts    of  this  enormous    heap  are  filled up by smaller blocks let
down according to fixed lines; but confusedly, and as it were
given up to the water and waves to be enchased and sloped. This
huge wall rises, or rather sinks, to a depth of 57 feet, and is 300
feet wide at the basis and 30 at the top, which is raised 3 feet
only above the level of spring-tides.            This stupendous work,
planned       and   directed   by Mr.  Rennie,   has  been going on these
five years ; it will require as many years more to be finished' and .
an expense of 1,000,000/. sterling. The particular description of
all the means used for the extracting, conveying, and launching
of the enormous blocks of stone, is executed by M. Dupiri with
the utmost care, and makes in some degree the reader present
at the execution of this great work, which reminds us of the an
cient and celebrated monuments known by the appellation of
 Cyclopean constructions.
    It is chiefly in considering (as the author has done in both
these descriptions) a great work as a whole, and then in all its
details, that we are struck with the perfection which the English
have been enabled to give to most of their machines, and to the
 application of inventions which often produced in French soil,
 could not thrive there.         To this the essays of every kind which
 the extension of English industry and their numerous establish- .
ments allowed them to multiply, must undoubtedly have con
 tributed.      But there is still another cause to be looked for in
 the difference of national characters : An Englishman is satisfied
 if he has added any improvement, how little soever, to a ma-"
 chine, to an. invention j without aspiring to make it his own, by
     •'' -  " "   '                                 "
                                                                  changes

                 Notices respecting New Boohs,      -            137
changes which alter it.      But French vivacity, or another too
common disposition needless to be insisted on here, suits better
with another course.
   To the extracts of his journeys in England M. Dupin has
joined several memoirs which have a natural connexion — that
of improvement of the arts in public works. We may chiefly
 remark a description of the machines for the use of the navy, ex
 ecuted at Rochefort upon the plannings of Mr. Hubert ; an ac
 count of the experiments on the strength of timber, made by
 the author, the results of which he had the satisfaction of seeing
 confirmed in England ; lastly, some valuable memoirs on the
 application of geometry to the stability of floating bodies, to the
 tracing of roads, the lowering of summits and filling of hollows,
 &c. — which memoirs have been approved by the Royal Institute
of France.
   Such a collection of memoirs, by a skilful engineer and a distin
guished writer, intended as the description of the ports and great
hydraulic works in a country where the extension of industry, the
improvement of the arts, the immensity of capitals, have enabled
the inhabitants to accomplish the most magnificent undertakings,
cannot fail to excite, in the highest degree, the attention of every
class of readers.    The interest of the subject will possibly cause
them to regret sometimes not to find in a rapid narration mora
detailed particulars.    It is not the lot of every work to be re
proached for its brevity : besides, the reader must remember that
these Memoirs are only the introduction to the complete relation
of his journey in England, which the author means for a future
publication. What he has already imparted to us about      it, ought
to give the most favourable idea of the manner in which he has
considered and treated such         valuable subject, and make us
                                    a
wish that he may soon publish his principal work.
    M. Dupin's Memoirs are dedicated to learned engineer, ce
                                           a
 lebrated for the great and useful applications which he has made
 of theory to the works of his art— the celebrated M. Prony.
 Du Grisoux,  et des Moyens de preserver les Mines He Houille de
   son Inflammation.     Of Fire-damp, and the Means of pre
   serving Coal-mines from its Explosion."    Mons, 1818. 8vo.
    pp. 26.
    The work before   us   is brief compendium of information re
                                a
 specting the safety-lamp, which has been published under the
 direction of the Chamber of Commerce of Mons, for the use of
 the proprietors and workmen of the collieries of the province of
 Hainault, well known as one of the richest coal districts in "Eu
 rope.   It consists of succinct account of the course of observa
                       a
 tion which led Sir Humphry Davy to his immortal discovery of
 the safety-lamp, and  a series of directions for its practical use;
                                                          illustrated

  138                Notices respecting New Boohs.
 illustrated by notes from the pen of M. Gossart, the president
 of the Chamber ; under whose superintendence a variety of ex
 periments were made, for the purpose of verifying the admirable
 properties of the lamp.        The body of the work cannot of course
 be expected to contain any thing on the subject which can be new
 to the English reader; but we subjoin from the notes of M. Gossart
 some observations which possess a considerable share of interest.
     Alluding to the properties of a metallic tissue in intercepting
 heat and flame, M. Gossart observes:
     "  I have repeated the experiments on this subject with a me
 tallic tissue, whose apertures were 1 -40th of an inch in size; and
 the results have uniformily verified what has been published of
 its surprising effects.       I got a mask made for myself of this
 gauze,    and  put my    face  close to a well-lighted coal fire, with
 out feeling any      other   sensation   than that of a slight heat. I
 next held my head over the flame of spirit of wine, and of sul
 phuric ether, so near that the flame and gauze were in contact —
 without any greater effect than in the first instance; but I ob
 served that the heat of the flame was felt more sensibly at its
 summit than in the centre*.
     "  I afterwards placed the same cloth with some gunpowder,
 some vegetable tinder (pollen de lycopode), and some cot
 ton moistened with sulphuric ether, above a candle; and the fol
 lowing were the results:
  . " I. The powder being presented ten or twelve times in suc
 cession to the centre of the flame, and of a current of carburetted
 hydrogen gas, was kept there each time for seven or eight se
 conds, and only withdrawn when the metallic wires began to
exhibit a reddish appearance. It was found necessary, in order to
inflammation taking place, that the metallic wires should attain a
redness approaching to incandescence, which at the centre of the
flame requires about ten seconds, but at the summit only three.
     " 2. The vegetable tinder, exposed to a similar trial, burned
the shavings of wood when the gauze became red.
    * Three persons who were present with me at this experiment, also re
peated it, with the same effects.    A mask made of a metallic gauze with
apertures of from l-6'0th or l-64th of an inch would be extremely useful
to glass-blowers, to metal-founders, &c. and especially to such as are civ.
gaged in the extinction of fires. It would be necessary, in the case of the
latter, that the metallic gauze should envelop the head at the distance of an
inch, or an inch and an half, and that it should never be allowed to redden.
It would be well, besides, that they moistened their clothes with a solution of
alum ; and also that a quantity of this solution should be kept in the troughs
of all fire-engines, that it might accompany them wherever they went.
Thus provided, the firemen could more easily snatch the burning brands,
cut off the communication of the fire, and save those in danger, by wrapping
them up in a covering of linen dipped in this solution of alum, &c. &c.
                                                                       "  The

                        Notkes respecting New Booki.                      139
     K The cotton moistened with sulphuric ether
                                                               (the most in
flammable liquid known), subjected to the like experiment, was
not ignited : but as the ether oozed a little through the gauze,
both in a liquid state and in the state of vapour, it became feebly
inflamed at the under part of the cloth : the cotton, however, did
not take fire till the gauze was quite red, which did not take
place til! after the lapse of some minutes, and often after the
 evaporation of the ether.        ,
      " I have exposed successively a wire gauze of iron, a gauze
 of brass, a piece of tinned iron pierced with holes of the size of
 -g-'^th of an inch, and an iron plate pierced with similar holes, be
 tween a lighted candle and a current of gas issuing from the cock
 of a reservoir (gasometer) full of carburetted hydrogen gas : the
 gas was soon inflamed by the light of the candle, on the other
 side of these diaphragms, without any communication                    of the
 flame taking place between the cock and the diaphragms of iron
 -wire-gauze and pierced iron-plate; but after a certain time, the
 gauze of copper and the pierced white-iron could no longer pre
 vent the communication of the flame between the two sides, and
 $hat because the heat was become sufficient to burn the zinc *,
 which is united to the red copper in the brass, and the tin which
 covers the iron in the white-iron-pJate.
      " The gauze of iron-wire placed between a current of inflamed
  carburetted hydrogen gas, and a current of the same gas not in
  flamed, both directed to the same point, has never permitted the
  communication        of the inflammation to the cold gas, however
  Jong   the  experiment may have been continued. This experiment
  is  the  same as that which takes place when the safety- lamp is
  set in the midst of an atmosphere of detonating mixture; with
  this slight difference, that in the latter, every current of gas
  presses much stronger upon the gauze than when the gas is at
  tracted into the interior of the lamp to replace that which has
   been absorbed by the combustion.
       " I have only reported these experiments in order to demon
   strate that it is indispensable that the gauze be of iron-wiref, and
      * " The zinc at the moment of being inflamed became volatilized to the
   state of white oxide. The same thing happened at the sitting of the Chamber
   of Commerce of Mons, on the 28th of January 1818, in presence of a num
   ber of coal-proprietors.  A current of inflammable gas, distilled from coal,
   having been directed for a long time upon one point of a safety-lamp, the
   gauze of which was of brass wire, it heated that part of the gauze to such
   a degree, that the zinc took five, and communicated the inflammation to
   the gas between the lamp and the orifice of the cock of the vessel which
   contained the gas — an inconvenience which there is no fear of encountering
   when the gauze is of iron wire.
      f  Pure copper wire will answer equally well, as it is only the presence
   of zinc in brass wire which renders this improper.— T.
                                                                             of

  \40                 Notices respecting New Booh.
 of  a close tissue, in order to have the safety-lamp of Davy in it»
 full perfection."
     " All my views," adds M. Gossart in concluding, " and those
 of the Chamber over which I have the honour to preside, in col
 lecting and publishing these facts, are to make the proprietors of
 mines which are affected with fire-damp, fully sensible of the
  importance of the discovery of the celebrated Davy, and how
 much humanity owes to his genius.            We would earnestly press
 upon   them    to permit   no other means  of lighting to be employed
 in the working of their mines, but       the  safety-lamp.    They will
 find the use of it ceconomical.       It will enable them to recover,
 and work anew, veins of coal which the abundance of inflam
 mable gas may have forced them to abandon. It will, above all,
 enable them to preserve their works from those calamities which
 explosion from fire-damp has till now been constantly occasion
 ing — calamities which have too often been the ruin of many of
 them   ; and to save from the torments        of burning,   and all the
 infirmities following in its train, a multitude of workmen           on
 whose labours the subsistence of a great number of families         de
 pends.
    " Happy    shall we be,    if we can  only succeed in making our
 countrymen as strongly impressed as we are ourselves with all
 the advantages of this inestimable discovery !
                                                    "
A practical      Treatise on the Use and application        of Chemical
    Tests  ; with   concise  Directions for analysing Metallic Ores,
    Metals, Soils, Manures, and Mineral Waters. Illustrated
    by Experiments. By Frediuck Acctm, Operative Chemist,
    Lecturer on Practical Chemistry' and on Mineralogy, F.L.S.
    M.R. A.S. R.S. of Berlin, &c. 3d Edition, 8vo. pp. 606.
    We are much gratified to find that the success of this valuable
little work has been so great, as already to give us an opportu
nity of noticing a third edition of it ; and to recognise in the
many elaborate improvements by which it is successively distin
guished, a pleasing proof that the author is not insensible of the
due return which he owes for the high share of favour which his
labours have received from the public.          Mr. Accum has in the
present    edition   greatly enlarged the   scale  of his experiments,
which are not confined to the illustration of the practical ope
rations in the analysis of such metallic ores, metals, mineral
waters, &c. as are commonly to be met with, but extend to mi
nerals which occur but rarely, and the proper mode of analysing
which, it is only therefore of so much the greater consequence t6
know distinctly. Two new plates have also been added, descrip
tive of the instruments most necessary for the analysis of bodies
by means of re-agents or tests.        The work has upon the whole

                           Atiatic Society.                       141
been much improved, and it is with confirmed satisfaction that
we repeat our recommendation of      as    it,
                                           most useful manual to
                                                 a
every student of chemistry.
   Mr. Accum has in the press,       third edition of Chemical
                                        a
Amusement; comprehending       Series of instructive and striking
                                 a
Experiments in Chemistry, which are easily performed, and un
attended     danger. With plates
            by                          by
                                    Lowry.
Essays on    the Proximate Mechanical Causes             of
                                                       the general
   Phenomena of the Universe.         By Sir Richard     Phillips.
   12mo. pp. 96.
   The present a republication, in a connected form, of series
                 is                                           a
of essays, which appeared in the course of last year in the Phi
losophical Magazine and other periodical works, from the pen of
Sir Richard Phillips, on his New Theory of the Universe.        The
ingenious author, in   abrief preface which he has annexed, com
plains, with some acerbity, of the tardiness of the scientific world
in acknowledging the verity of system, in which he has himself
                                    a
all " the confidence of    amartyr." We would beg to refer him
for consolation to the excellent maxim of Tacitus — Veritas visit
et mora, falsa festinatione et incertis valescunl.
   Memoirs, Biographical, Literary, and Critical, of the most
eminent Physicians and Surgeons        the present Time in Great
                                           of
Britain; with a choice Collection of their Prescriptions, and
Specification of the Diseases for which they were given, forming
a complete modern extemporaneous Pharmacopoeia         to which
                                                          :         is
added, an Appendix, containing an Account of all the Medical
Institutions of the Metropolis, both scientific and charitable.
            XXII.     Proceedings     ofLearned Societies.
                           Asiatic sociErr.
   Calcutta, Feb. 25.—      A.
                             Meeting of the Asiatic Society was
held on Wednesday, the 11th, at which the Lord Bishop pre
sided.
  A  letter was read from M. Cuvier, perpetual secretary to the
Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris, introducing, in the name
of the Academy, M. Diard to the favourable attention of the
Asiatic Society.   M. Diard     one of the correspondents of the
                                 is
Royal Museum of Natural History. M. Cuvier at the same
time preseuted several works of his own composition. Memoires
pour servir  aFHistoire de I'Anatomie des Molusques have beea
received.                                            ,
                                                              A   let-

   142                         Asiatic Society.
      A letter was also read from M. du Trachet, transmitting to
  the Society his Researches on the Membranes of the Foetus and
  on the Rotiferes.
      A communication was received from Dr. N. Wallich, superiri-
  tendant of the botanical gardens, submitting to the Society de
  scriptions and drawings of some interesting Asiatic plants^ viz.
  the Daphne involucrata, Daphne cannabina, and Menhpermum
  Cocculus, with remarks.         Dr. Wallich also favoured the Society
 with    some  samples  of paper made of the bark of the paper-shrub,
  a species of Daphne, and probably the same that is described by
 Father Louriero in his Flora of Cochin-Chini. The paper ma
 nufactured from this substance is extremely cheap and durable.
 It is said tb be particularly calculated for cartridges, being strong,
 tough, not liable to crack or break, however much bent or fold
 ed, proof against being moth-eaten, and not in the least subject
 to dampness from any change in the weather.             If kept in water
   forany considerable time, it will not rot, and is invariably used
 all over Kemaoon, and in great request in many parts of the
 pjains, for the purpose of writing genealogical records, deeds, &c.
 The method of preparing the paper is extremely simple.               The
 external    surface of  the   bark  being scraped off,   that which   re
 mains is boiled in clean water, with a small quantity        of the ashes
 of the oak, which whitens the material. It is then washed, beat
 to a pulp, and, after being mixed up with the fairest water, is
 spread on moulds of frames made of common bamboo mats. Be
 sides these, Dr. Wallich presented to the Museum a specimen of
 the Bhojputtra of the natives, being the outer rind of a new
species of birch.       It is much used in the mountainous countries
to the north for writing upon, particularly by the religious. On
one of the pieces was a letter written by the Rawal (head-priest)
of Kiddernath, a temple on one of the mountains of the Himu-
layah, and a great place of Hindoo pilgrimage.             For these spe
cimens Dr.      Wallich   was   indebted  to the liberality and kindness
of the Hon. E. Gardner,       Resident  at Katmandoo,who has already
enriched the botanic garden with many valuable vegetable pro
ductions of Nepaul.
                                       I
     In presenting a Memolre sur 'Elevation des Montagues des
Indes, by M. de Humboldt, Dr. Wallich laid before the Society
some observations on several passages in that work by Capt. W.
S. Webb, from which it appears that an incomplete manuscript
copy of Capt. Webb's survey of the Himulayah mountains, or
partial extracts from it only, had been seen by M. Humboldt,
which has led that writer into a mistake respecting the height of
the highest peak of that range.
     Two Javanese works, one entitled Jaya Alancara, or Annals
                                                                        of

                             j%siatic Society.                       143
of Victory, and the other Ae$haraSandhi, on Orthography, were
presented in the name of A. Seton, Esq. by Capt. Lockett.
    The Pentateuch complete, printed with metallic moveable
characters, 1815-17, was presented by the Rev. Mr. Marshman.
This is another valuable proof of the useful and meritorious ex
ertions of those indefatigable individuals who compose the Baptist
Mission    at Serampore.
    A letter was read from a new        institution, called the Societe-
Poly technique    of  the   Island  Bourbon,    desiring to establish a
correspondence with      the   Asiatic Society.
    A mathematical gaper on the Cardioille was received from
Capt. Grove, of the royal Danish engineers.
    A letter was read from Mr. Thomson, late private secretary to
the Marquis of Hastings, dated Calicut, Nov. 3, 1817, trans
mitting to the Society drawings of the Cobra Manilla, and two
sorts of sea snake.      It is said that the Cobra Manilla is known
on the Malabar coast as the bangle snake, and this same is a
translation oiWala Caripan, which in the Malabar language
signifies the deadly bangle, or bracelet ; it has two fang teeth,
exactly like those of the Cobra Capello, and its bite is reckoned
equally dangerous.        The length varies from six to twelve or
fourteen   inches ;  but  the  female, although rather larger, has less
brilliant colours than the male. Mr. Thomson during his resi
 dence in Bengal and the Upper Provinces had tried without suc
cess to obtain the snake called Cobra Manilla.          He observes that
 the late Gen. Gillespie received the bite of this serpent when he
 was plucking a peach, and in two or three minutes afterwards
 lost all sensation.    The last thing he recollected was some per
 sons calling out for eau de luce, which applied very copiously,
both internally and externally, he believed, saved his life, but he
 added that his constitution was not fully restored in two or three
 years. Mr. Thomson during his stay at Calicut accidentally dis
 covered a species of silk-worm which feeds on the leaves of the
 wild mango-tree. Among the caterpillars he collected, for the
 purpose of obtaining butterflies, were some about the size of a"
 man's little finger, with heads and tails of the colour of bright
  coral, and bodies covered with silvery hairs rising from a black
 skin. They soon left off feeding and became restless, endeavour
  ing to crawl up the sides of the glass shade under which the/
  were placed.    The motion of their heads from side to side was
  constant and regular, and Mr. Thomson at length found that they
  had constructed ladders of most imperceptible threads, and when
 furnished with dry twigs they began to form their pods. The
  quality of the silk is coarser than that of Bengal, which may
  proceed from the nature of their food, as mulberry-trees are not
                                                                    found

 244     Society for  the Encouragement    of Industry in France.
 found in the neighbourhood of Calicut.         Drawings of the male
 and female silk-moth accompanied this communication.
     M. Cuvier was proposed as an honorary member of the So
 ciety by the Lord Bishop, and duly elected.
 SOCIETY FOR THE ENCOURAGEMENT             OF INDUSTRY IN FRANCE.
     Prizes proposed for competition during 1819:
                             Mechanic Arts.
     For the application of the steam-engine to printing-presses.
     The Society proposes a prize of two thousand francs to the
 person who shall put in action, by means of the steam-engine,
 one or more typographic presses, constructed either according
 to the old method, or according to any other method.             The
 press thus worked must produce          in a given time a greater
 number of impressions than in the ordinary way, and the clear
 advantage gained by it must be much greater than what m
 commonly obtained.        The competitors to transmit descriptive
 memoirs accompanied with designs of the presses which they
 have employed, and certificates from the local authorities of their
 having been in active use for three consecutive months.
      For the fabrication of a new species of (economical carpet.
     The Society, persuaded that the proper furnishing of house*
 contributes essentially to the comfort and health of individuals,
 proposes a prize of two hundred francs to the person who shall be
 fore the 1st of May 1819 have fabricated and sent to market a
 tort of carpet, the price of which shall be one half cheaper thau
 that of the cheapest carpeting at present known in Paris.
                              Chemical Artf.
 For the fabrication of an indelible green colour preferable to the
            of Scheele.
    freen
       he Society proposes    a prize of two thousand francs to the
 inventor of the    best means of preparing one or many solid and
 brilliant greens, fit for being employed in dyeing, in oil painting,
 and in paper staining.      The green must be superior to the green
 of Scheele, and to those which are now in use.
JFor the discovery of the best process of pounding colours in oil
     and water to the degree of consistency required by artists.
    A prize of 500 francs.
  For the fabrication     of animal charcoal from other substances
     than bones,   and by a process different from that employed
    for preparing Prussian blue.
     The certainty that other animal matters besides bones, can be
 brought to yield charcoal of a good quality, is deduced from the
  knowledge of a very important fact furnished by the employment
                                                                    of

                Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris.                 145
of   tHe charcoal  left in the fabrication  of Prussian blue. This
charcoal, when it has been prepared, possesses qualities infinitely
superior to those of charcoal produced from bones, and it is_known
that it is furnished bv other animal matters than bones, and is
prepared by potash.
    In the charcoal residue of Prussian blue, the whole, or nearly
the whole, is charcoal ; while in the charcoal from bones, there
is scarcely more than a fifth of pure charcoal ; the other four-
fifths are formed of phosphate and carbonate of lime, matters
altogether foreign to the action of charcoal.
    From these considerations, the Society proposes a prize of
two thousand francs to the person who shall communicate a cer
tain and cecouomical process for converting animal matters, other
than bones, into a charcoal possessing all the qualities of char
coal from bones.      The price of the charcoal thus obtained must
not be greater than the present price of charcoal from bones (ten
centimes the pound) .
                   For the fabrication of isinglass.
    The Society offers a prize of two thousand francs to the per
son who will establish in France a manufacture of isinglass, of a
quality which may stand competition with the isinglass of the
north. To be awarded in July 1819.
                          (Economical Arts.
For the discovery of a vegetable substance, either natural or pre
    pared, which will serve as a complete substitute   for  the leaves
    of the mulberry in the rearing of silk-worms.
    A prize of two thousand francs.
              ROYAL ACADEMY      OF SCIENCES AT    fARIS.
    At a meeting of the Academy on theSOth of March last, M. Des-
fontaines made a report on a memoir by M. Dellile, on that
long sought for tree of ancient times, the Persea.        It was for
merly, as we learn from the descriptions of Pliny) Theophrastus,
and Dioscorides, much cultivated in Egypt on account of an ex
cellent fruit which it yielded j but for ages past it has wholly dis
appeared from the banks of the Nile. M. Dellile thinks, however,
that he has'now recognised it in the Xymenia Egyptiaca of Lin
naeus, one specimen of which he saw in a garden at Cairo, and
two others in Upper Egypt ; and it appears also from his re
searches, that it abounds in Nubia and Abyssinia, under the
name of the glig. The tree as described by Theophrastus           "  re
sembles the pear-tree; but differs from it in being evergreen. It
produces fruits in abundance, which ripen about the time of the
Etesian winds.      When the fruit is intended to be kept, it is ga-
  . Vol.52. No. 244. Mug. 1818.                K                therecl

 146          Royal Academy of Sciences of Brussels.
thefed before it is quite ripe. Iri this state it is of ageeenish to-
lour, and in form like an almond or elongated pear ; the pulp,
which is soft, agreeable to the taste, and of easy digestion, in
closes a stone like that of a plum, but smaller and harder. The
wood of the Persea is dense, and of a fine black colour, and is
iissd for making tables and statues."
       Piize Questions proposed by the Academy for 1S20:
     To form by the theory of universal gravitation alone, and with-r
 out taking from observations anv thing but arbitrary elements,
 tables of the movement of the moon as exact as the best tables
 in existence.                                                .. _
    The following theorem of Fermat : —  " Beyond the second de
 gree 'there exists no power which may be divided into two other
 powers of the same degree."
     The prize for eaeh question is a gold medal of 3000 francs
 \-alue, and the 1st of January . 1S20 is the latest time allowed
 for the reception of memoirs.
       ROYAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES AND BELLES LETTRES OF
                          BRUSSELS.
   The following questions have been proposed by this Society
for competition in the Class of Sciences during the year 1819 :
   1. If to each of the angles of a plane perfectly square, from
the centre of which a certain weight P (say of 100 lb.) is sus
 pended, a cord be attached, which passes vertically on a pulley ;
 and if each of these cords be charged with such a weight, as that
first, the sum of the four shall be equal to 100 lb.; and second,
 that the weights attached to each of the two angles diagonally op
 posite, shall be equal to each other ; as for example, two of them
 49 lb., and the two others one pound each, and so through an
  infmite series of numbers — it is known by the ordinary rules of
 statics, that this plane will remain horizontally in equilibrio.
 On the other hand, if these four cords, instead of being thus load
 ed with weights, and passing on a pulley, are fixed to an immove
  able board, it is obvious, but only on the metaphysical principle,
'that wherever there is a perfect equality of efficient causes, the
  effects are also necessarily equal; that the portions of the weight
 P, borne by each of these four points, will also be exactly equal
 to each other.
     The point then   is, to assigna   principle truly physical — that
is  to say, founded on   the  properties of matter alone, from which
 there may result, among the infinite series mentioned above, re
lations among the four weights all equally proper to establish the
equilibrium in the first hypothesis, and the preference which the
relation of equality bears in the second — that    is   to say, when
the distribution of the force to sustain depends actively and en

                   "
                       Society   of Sciences of Haarlem.                1 47
tirely on the weight         P attached to the centre of the square
plane.
      In the 1 8th vol. of the Memoirs of the Academy of Petersburg!),
, Euler has treated this subject in all its generality with admirable
 skill and profoundness [De pressione ponderis in planum cut
 incumbit) ; but in the judgement of d'Alembert {Op'usc. Mathem.
  tome viii. p. 40, § 13) the solution is still uncertain and hy
 pothetical; and, in fact, the principle upon which it is founded
 seems      rather to be a mathematical       hypothesis    than a physical
principle.
     It  is therefore required,
     First. That this principle be discussed fundamentally, and
that it be demonstrated in a positive manner, whether it is or i$
not admissible as a physical principle.
     Second. In the event of the demonstration being in the nega
tive, that it be examined, whether by presenting this principles
in any other point of view it cannot be confirmed, and the beau
 tiful theory which flows from it be thereby preserved.
     Third. If neither of these trials are satisfactory, that there be
  assigned for the particular case which has been specified above,
  a principle which shall be free from all objection.
     2. Assuming that there is an identity between the forces which
 produce electrical, and those which produce galvanic phasno-
 mena ; whence comes it that we do not find a perfect accordance
 between the first and the last ?
     3. Many modern authors believe in the identity of chemical
 and galvanic forces : — Can the truth or falsity of this opinion be
 proved      ?
     The prize offered for each of these questions is a gold medal
of the weighs of twenty-five ducats. The memoirs may be writ
 ten in Latin, French, Dutch, or Flemish, and transmitted pre
  vious to the 1st of February 1819 to the Secretary of the Aca
 demy M. Van Hulthem.
                  SOCIETY    OF SCIENCES OF        HAARLEM.
     The following questions in the Physical Sciences have been
  proposed by this Society for competition previous to the 1st of.
  January 1819 :
      1. What is the origin of carbon in plants ? Is it produced by
  the vegetation itself either entirely or in part, as the experiments,
  of M. Von Crell appear to have established, and as many philo
  sophers suppose ?       If it is so, in what manner is this production,
  effected ? If not, in what manner does the absorption of carbon by
  plants take place ?      Is it effected after it is combined with oxygen
  and transformed into carbonic acid, or in what other mode ?
        :. j                          K2                             2. To

       148        Royal Institution.  — School of Physic    in Ireland.
          2. To what source are we to ascribe the iron which we find
      in the analysis of some plants ? Is it to be ascribed in every case       (
      to particles of iron which the plants have taken up with their
     natural aliment, or can it be evidently proved by observations,
      that     it is produced at least in some cases by the vegetation itself?
     And what light do         these observations throw upon other branches
     of physics       ?                 »   '
                                   ROYAL INST1TTJTION.
          Mr. Brande will commence an extended and practical Course
     of  Lectures       and Demonstrations on Chemistry in the Laboratory of
     this Institution, on the first Tuesday in October, at nine in the
     morning, to be continued every Tuesday, Thursday, and Sa
    turday. Two Courses are given during the season, which begins
    in October and terminates in June, and the subjects which they
    comprehend are treated of in the following order :
          I. Of the powers and properties of matter, and the general
    laws of chemical changes.             II. Of undecompounded substances,
    and their mutual combinations. III. Vegetable chemistry. IV. Che
    mistry of the animal kingdom. V. Geology.
                     COMPLETE SCHOOL OF PHYSIC IN IRELAND.
     .   The following particulars respecting this school for the instruc
    tion of Students in Medicine, Surgery, and Pharmacy, will prove
    acceptable to many of our readers.
                                      Foundation.
         In 1704, Sir Patrick Dunn instituted, in his life-time, two
   Professorships in Dublin, viz.
                                           " one of Osteology, Bandages, and
   Operations of Surgery, and one of ancient and modern Materia
    Medica, and Pharmacy."               Sir P. Dunn further directed by his
   will in 1711, that, if his funds were sufficient, " there should be
   Lectures publicly read on the Anatomy of the Bodies of Men, or
  the Bodies of Animals — on Chirurgery and Midwifery— on Bo
  tany and the Dissections of Plants."              He also ordered, that the
  Professorships on these several subjects should be bestowed ac
  cording to the merits of the candidates, to be ascertained by an
  examination on three several days, two hours each day. A King's
  Professor of the Theory and Practice of Physic, with corporate
  powers of holding and letting lands, was instituted by George
  the First.
        An act was passed in the 21st year of George the Second, by
 which the King's Professorship of Physic, and the Professorship
 of Surgery and Midwifery, and that of Materia Medica and
 Pharmacy, instituted by Sir Patrick Dunn, were incorporated
'and established by law.             Before this period also, Lectureships
   ' ,      '•                                .                         existed

                 Complete School         of Physic in Ireland.                   ,1^9
existed in Trinity College, on Anatomy and Surgery, Chemistry
 and Botany.
    Throughout the 21st of George the Second, and the will of Sir
Patrick Dunn, recited in       it,
                            the different Lectures are always men
tioned as being intended for the " instruction of Students of Me
dicine, Surgery, and Pharmacy          and from thence arose the
                                             ;"
title of The Complete School of Physic, adopted      the subsequent
                                                           in
acts,  viz. the 25th, 31st, and  40th  of  His present Majesty, in
which the 21st George the Second           constantly recognised as
                                                  is
the foundation of the school, and as being still in force, except
"  as relates to the number of Professors, the> Electors and the
mode of election, the tenure and salaries of the said Professors,
and the times and manner of lecturing."
                                     Students.
    The several Students in Physic                    in the Uni
                                              are matriculated
versity, for which they pay five shillings but such Students, un
                                                   ;
less they shall think proper, are not obliged to attend to the
academical duties of the University. The several Lecturers, when
they have delivered on half of their Courses, return to the senior
Lecturer of Trinity College list of such pupils as shall have at
                                     a
tended them during such part of their Courses.
                               Professors.
    There   are six Professorships.  Those of Anatomy and Surgery,
 of Chemistry, and of Botany, are on the foundation of Trinity
 College, and are called the University Professorships       those of   ;
 the Institutes of Medicine, of the Practice of Medicine, and of
 Materia Medica, and Pharmacy, are on Sir Patrick Dunn's foun
dation, and are named King's Professorships.       Provision      also       is
 made for the addition of King's Professor of Midwifery, as soon
                               a
 as Sir Patrick Dunn's funds shall permit.
    " The King's Professorships are open to persons of all nations
professing their faith in Christ, and the Professorships of the
University to Protestants of all nations;" and for both,           re       it   is
quired either to have taken medical degrees in some University,
or to have obtained       license to practice from the College of
                           a
Physicians,    in consequence of      testimonium under the seal of
                                         a
Trinity College. Immediately before the election of any Profes
sor, the electors are sworn to vote without " favour, partiality, or
prejudice   ;" and immediately on being declared elected, the Pro
fessor is  sworn to perform " his duties to the best of his skill and
judgement." The electors of the King's Professors are the Pro
vost and the Professor of Physic of the University, with three
                                                                by by
physicians chosen     byballot from their own body      the College
of Phvsicians. The University Professors are elected     the Provost
                                   K3                             and

 150           Complete School   of Physic in Ireland.
 and senior Fellows of Trinity College. Each Professor is chosen
 for seven years, but may be continued, or may be re-elected.
    In addition to the fees derived from the medical Students, the
King's Professors receive a salary from Sir P. Dunn's estate, and
 the University Professors are paid by the Students of Arts in Tri
nity College, for the public or collegiate Course of Lectures.
              Lechires and other Means of Instruction.
    The University Professors deliver annually a public Course of
twelve Lectures on their respective subjects.
    Lectures on the following subjects are delivered from the 1st
 Monday in November until the end of the succeeding April, viz.
 on Anatomy and Surgery, and on Chemistry, in Trinity College.
On the Institutes of Medicine, on the Practice of Medicine, arid
 on Materia Medica, and Pharmacy, in Sir P. Dunn's Hospital.
 The Lectures on Botany commence on the 1st Monday in May in
Trinity College, and continue until the end of July. Terms for
each of these Courses of Lectures, four guineas.
    Clinical Lectures are given on the cases of the patients in the
Hospital, at least two days in each week of every session. This
duty is taken for three months by the Professors, alternately, or
in such other order as shall be agreed upon amongst them. Terms
of each Course, three guineas.
    Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, Physiology, and Patho
logy, are given by the Professor of Anatomy and Surgery, twice
a week during the session, without additional expense to those
who pay for the Lectures on Anatomy and Surgery.           To other
pupils, the terms for these Lectures are two guineas.
   Anatomical Demonstrations are given daily, from the begin
ning of the session until April, by the Demonstrator of Anatomy
in Trinity College. The Students are superintended in their dis
sections, and subjects are provided for the muscles, blood-ves
sels, and nerves.    A private room is allotted to the use of prac
titioners who may wish to improve their knowledge of anatomy.
Terms for dissections, subjects, and demonstrations, six guineas;
for the demonstrations alone, four guineas.
    Students who wish to be instructed in the performance of sur
gical operations on the dead body, may be superintended, and
have the necessary number of subjects provided them. Terms for
which, five guineas.
    Towards the end of the session, a Course of Lectures is given
 on the diseases of the skin, bv the Professor of Anatomy and
 Surgery; and one on the diseases of the eye, by the Demon
strator of Anatomy.       Terms for each of these Courses, one
 guinea.
    At the Chemical Laboratory, operating pupils are received and
                                                          instructed

                 Complete School   of Physic in Ireland.             15 1
  instructed in the details of chemical and pharmaceutical processes.
  Terms for such instruction are six guineas.
     Students in botany have access to the botanic garden, which
 is in the immediate vicinity of Dublin, and have the opportunity
 of taking frequent excursions with the Professor of Botany and
 his assistant, to the mountains and sea-coast adjacent to the
 city.
     Botanical Demonstrations      are daily given by the Professor's
 assistant in the garden during the season.       Terms of which, one
 guinea.
     A Course of Lectures on Mineralogy is delivered by the Pro
 fessor of Natural Historv, in Trinity College, to which those
 who have their names on the books of the University are admitted
 gratis.                                                                 ,
     The Museum of Trinity College, to which Students have ad
 mission two days in the week, contains a collection of minerals,
 systematically arranged, with references to a printed catalogue.
     Pupils are taken by the Apothecary of Sir Patrick Dunn's
 Hospital, and instructed in the Practice of Pharmacy. Terms for
 which, during three months, two guineas.
    A Medical Society holds weekly meetings in Trinity College,
 for the purpose of discussing subjects connected with Medicine,
 Surgery, or Pharmacy.       A medical circulating library belongs to
 the members.        Terms of admission to the Society, with the use
 of the library, one pound,
     Medical Officers of the Army and Navy are permitted to attend
the Lectures on Anatomy and Surgery, in Trinity College, with- .
 out fee.
                                 Hospital.
    This  is chiefly supported by the rents of   Sir P. Dunn's estates,
and partly by private contribution.     The Board oi" Governors con
sist of the Visitors of the College of Physicians, the President,
Vice-president, and Censors of the same, the Provost of Trinity
                                           1c
College, and twelve Subscribers ; but         no physician or surgeon"
of the hospital is eligible to be a governor. The bouse is intend
ed to hold one hundred and thirty patients, of whom thirty are
selected for instruction and lectures, by the Clinical Professor
for the time : the rest are placed under the care of a physician
appointed by the Governors.
    The cases of the clinical patients in the hospital are recorded.
Every opportunity is also taken to examine the bodies of patients
that die ; the morbid appearances are explained to the Students,
and preserved in the pathological collection of the School.
    At present, all pupils are permitted to attend the entire prac
tice of the Hospital during a yea; , for three guineas. Formerly,
this privilege was extended to those only who had studied at
                   s               K4                              least

 152            Complete School    of Physic in Ireland.
least two years in Arts in the University of Dublin,         Oxford, or
Cambridge.        All other pupils paid twenty guineas.
                                 Library.
    A large collection of medical books, bequeathed by Sir P.Dunn,
is appropriated to the use of the Students, and provision is made
for purchasing books in proportion as the funds increase. A Li
brarian is appointed annually, by the College of Physicians, with
a salary of seventy pounds per annum.           He furnishes the neces
sary fuel for the library and medical lecture-room, and discharges
 such duties as shall be prescribed to him by the College of Phy
 sicians.
                                 Degrees.
    The Students who do not graduate in Arts are permitted at the
 end of three years, from the date of their matriculation, to un
 dergo an examination before the six Professors of the School, in
 their respective departments, on producing to the Board of Tri
 nity College, certificates of diligent and regular attendance on
 Anatomy, Surgery, Chemistry, Botany, Institutes of Medicine,
 Practice of Medicine, Materia Medica, and Pharmacy, the Cli
 nical Lectures and Practice of Sir Patrick Dunn's Hospital. They
 likewise write a Thesis in Latin.       If found qualified by the exa
 mination, they publish the Thesis, perform the academical exer-
 cises for the degree of Doctor of Medicine, and receive the follow
 ing testimonium from the Board of Trinity College :
     " Omnibus ad quos pra?sentes literae pervenerint salutem. Nos
 Propositus et Socii seniores Collegii Sacro-Sanctae et individual
 Trinitatis, juxta Dublin, testamur A. B. quamdiu apud nos com-
 moratus est, sedulam operam Medicinae navasse, examinationes
 solitas coram sex Medicinae Professoribus feliciter sustinuisse,
 casteraque exercitia necessaria praestitisse,    his adducti judicamus
 eum    habilem   ac idoneum  esse, qui exerceat   artem Medicinae qua-
 tenus leges statutaque regni permittunt; in cnjus rei testimo
 nium, manus et sigillum quo in his utimur, apposuimus.             Anno
  Domini, &c. &c."
     The Students who go through a collegiate Course,on producing
 certificates of their strict attendance on the Lectures of the Pro
 fessors in the School of Physic, on the Clinical Lectures and the
  Hospital, are, three years after having graduated as Bachelor of
 Arts, admitted to an examination before the Regius Professor of
  Physic and the Professors of Anatomy and Surgery, Chemistry,
 and Botany, in Trinity College,        On being approved, and per
 forming    the  usual  academical  exercises,  they take the degree of
 Bachelor    of  Medicine.    Lfpon  sufficient  standing, publishing a
 Thesis, passing a second examination before the University Pro
 fessors, and performing the necessary acts, the full degree of Doc
 tor in Medicine is conferred.        These rank with the degrees of
                                                                Bachelor

           Improvement     and Extension  of Iron Rail-ways.          153
Bachelor and Doctor of Medicine obtained in the Universities of
Oxford and Cambridge.
     As qualifications previous to examination for the testimonium,
the certificates of the Professors in Edinburgh are admitted for
any three of the Courses required, with the exception of the Cli
nical Lectures, which must have been attended in the School of
Physic in Ireland.
     Certificates of attendance on the Professors in the School of
Physic in Ireland are received, as giving standing in other Uni
versities, and as qualifications for medical officers in the army,
navy, and East India service.        And certificates of attendance on
the Anatomical and Surgical Lectures in Trinity College, are
also admitted in the different Colleges of Surgeons.
            XXIII.   Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
        IMPROVEMENT AND EXTENSION          OF IRON    RAIL-WAYS.
 The       Highland Society of Scotland have recently announced
 the following premium ; viz.
     A piece of plate, of fifty guineas value, will be given for the
 best and approved essay on the construction of rail-roads, for
 the conveyance of ordinary commodities.          In this essay it will be
 essential to keep in view, how far rail-roads can be adapted for
 common use in a country; — the means of laden carriages sur
 mounting      the elevations occurring in their course; and whether
 rail-roads, or the wheels of carriages,     may be so constructed as
 to be applicable to ordinary roads, as well as to rail-roads, so
 that no inconvenience shall be experienced on leaving either to
 travel on the other: the essay to be accompanied with such mo*
 dels or drwings as shall be sufficient to illustrate the statements
  it contains.
      It is desirable that some account should be given of the prin
  cipal rail-roads in Britain, together with a brief history of their
  introduction. The premium not to be decided until the 10th
  November 1819.
      And with the same view, the following circular letter has been
  addressed to the various iron-masters in Scotland and England ;
  viz.
      "  Sir, — Although the rail-way that is now in contemplation
  in the vicinity of Edinburgh be entirely a matter of local con
   cern, the peculiar plan of it is certainly to be viewed in a dif
   ferent light, as an object that well deserves the attention of the
   various classes of the community throughout the kingdom. In
   stead of insulated patches of rail-way, here and there, for par
                                                                    ticular

154    Improvement       and Extension   of Iron Rail- Ways.
ticular purposes, and for the conveniency of private individuals,
as is now the case, it is here proposed, through the medium of
rail-ways, to open extensive communications — to branch them
out from the metropolis of Scotland in various directions, and
to distant points — and thus to facilitate conveyance in general
by an improved system of roads for heavy carriages.
  "   The Highland Society of Scotland have, in a very patriotic
manner, offered a premium of fifty guineas for the best essay on
the means of attaining so desirable an object as the introduction
 of rail-ways for the purposes of general carriage.
    " With a view to the establishment of the rail-way in question,
for the conveyance of commodities to fmd from Edinburgh, and
thereby to give a commencement to the system generally, a sub
scription for a survey has been opened, and plans by Mr. Steven
son, engineer, are in considerable forwardness.
    " It seerr.s to be desirable, that rail-ways, for alternate car
riage and general use, should proceed on a continued level, or
upon successive levels: and a simple system of lockage
                                                              (if
                                                               it may
be so called), by which loaded waggons may easily be elevated
or depressed, from one level to another, would appear to be
a desirable attainment.      Th" edge rail-way generally used and
                                                is
preferred in Scotland, as causing less friction, and less expense
of horse power and       it would tend to facilitate the general use of
 rail-ways, if,   by ;
                    some  simple change, the wheel usually employed
for the road     or street could be made also to suit the rail-way,
 or the rail-way wheel be made to suit the road or street, so that
 the cart or waggon which brings the commodity from the col
 liery or stone quarry, the farm-yard, or the manufactory, to the
 rail-way, might travel along      to the termination of the rail-way,
                                  it
 and proceed     from  thence through the streets of the town to the
 dwelling of the consumer, without unloading, or change of car
  "
riage.
    The general    use of rail-ways     by
                                        iron-manufacturers, for their
own peculiar objects, qualifies them in an eminent degree to af
ford valuable suggestions on the best means of perfecting the
rail-way system     and from
                    ;             desire to collect the general sense
                                  a
of enlightened and scientific men, we take the liberty of sub
mitting the annexed queries to your consideration, and to re
quest, if  agreeable to you, that you will be pleased to favour us
with any suggestions which may occur to you upon the subject.
    *' Nothing could give    stronger impulse to the iron-manufac
                              a
ture than    the complete   success   of this scheme.    It seems to
 claim the attention of the iron-manufacturers of Great Britain
as a   body, and to merit their individual and collective support.
   " Edinburgh,   March 25, 1818.
                                    '
                                                               Queries.

                          Lectures. — Patents.                     155
                               Queries.
    1. What is the best breadth of rail-way, and the best form of
&   waggon or carriage for the conveyance of commodities in ge
 neral ?                                     i
     2. Supposing the trade alternate, it will be desirable that the
rail-way should proceed on a continued level, or upon successive
levels. What are deemed the best means, with reference to
 oaconomy and dispatch, for elevating or depressing the laden
 carriages from one level to another ?
     3. Supposing the edge rail-way, which is generally preferred
 in Scotland, to be adopted, can a wheel be so constructed as to
 be applicable to streets or ordinary roads, as well as to rail- roads,
 so that no inconvenience shall be experienced on leaving either
 to travel on the other ?
     St. George's Medical, Chemical, and Chirurgical Lectures.
     These will, as usual, commence the first week of October, in
 the following departments :
      1. On the Practice of Physic, with the Laws of the Animal
  OZconomy, and occasional        Pathological Demonstrations,       at
  No.{), George-street, Hanover-square, by George Pearson, M.D.
  F.R.S., Senior Physician to St. George's Hospital, of the College
  of Physicians, &c.
     2. On the Science of Chemistry, in which Medical Jurispru
 dence will form a part of the Course, at the Royal Institution,
  Albemarle-street, by W. T. Brande, F.R.S. Prof. Chem. Royal
  Institution, &c.
      3. OnSurgery,at Mr. Brodie's Theatre, Great Windmill-street,
 by B. C. Brodie, F.R.S. Assistant Surgeon at St. George's Hos
  pital, &c.
      4. On Therapeutics, with Materia Medica, by George Pear
  son, M.D. F.R.S. &c.
      5. Sir Everard Home will continue his Surgical Lectures
  gratuitously to the Pupils at St. George's Hospital.
              LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
      To Samuel Clegg, of Westminster, engineer, for an improved
   gasometer or gasholder. — 24th July, 1818. — 6 mouths.
      To Richard Blakemore, of Milingriffith Work, county of Gla
   morgan, and John James, of Lower Redbrook, iu the county of
   Gloucester, iron-masters and tin-plate manufacturers, for a new
   kind of plate, which they denominate ' amorphous metal plates,'
   and likewise a certain improved and more perfect method or
   methods of crystallizing, or rendering crystallizable, the surface

156                               Meteorology.
of tin-plates, or iron or copper-plates tinned, which plates they
call ' amorphous metal plates.' — 24th July. — -6 months. . ,
    To Joseph Manton, of Davies-street, Berkeley-square, gun-
maker, for certain primers for fire-arms, and also certain im
provements in the construction of certain of the parts of fire
arms. — 3d August. — 6 months.
    To John Malam, of Marsham-street, Westminster, engineer,
for certain improvements on steam-engines. — 5th August. — 6
months.
    To James Hollingrake, of Manchester, mechanic, for his
improved method of making or manufacturing copper or other
metal rollers for calico-printing. — 7th August. — 6 months.
                                METEOROLOGY.
                                Harvest Moon.
    The present year is the third of a series of ten years in which
the moon will prove the most beneficial to farmers for reaping
 and gathering in the produce of their fields; viz. from 1816 to
 1 825 inclusive.     The nine years preceding, namely, from 1 807 to
 1815 inclusive, were of the class of those in which, from general
 physical causes, the harvest moon was least beneficial.
Meteorological       Journal kept at Walthamstow, Essex, from
                       July    15 to August   15, 1818.
[Usually between   the Honrs of Seven and Nine A.M. and the Thermometer
             (a second  time) between Twelve and Two P.M.J
Sate. Therm. Barom. Wind.
July
 15    63    30-30     N — NE. — Clear and some wind; very hot
       80                 fine day; clear moon-light.
 16    64   30-25      SW— W—NW— SE.— Hot sun, and hazy;
       82                 fine, hot and windy day  ; clear night.
 17    70   30-20      SE. — Cirrostratus ; showers between      8 A.M.
       76  *              and noon   ; fine day, very hot ; mottled cir
                          rostratus at 7 P.M. ; clear, and cirrostratus
                          at night.   Full moon.
 18   61    30-05      NE — SE. — Fine and sunny; fine day, and
       79                 some wind; very hot; clear, and cirro-
                          stratus mottled.
 19   68    30-00      NE — SE — NW. — Sun and cirrostratus ; fine,
      80                  very hot day; windy; clear and clouds.
 20   63     29-95     NW.* — Wind, and gleams of sun; very hot
       78                 fine day; clear night.
                                                                   July

                              Meteorology."~                            157
July                                                         "-"-> -
21     63    29-91     W— S— SW — W. — Some                sun and cirro-
       77               strains; fine day; stars and atmulostraius,
                         and wind.
22     64    30•05     SW. — Sun, wind, and cumuli; fine day; very
       78               hot ; clear and star-light.
23     66    30-15   - SE — E. — Hot sun, and wind ; fine day; very
        87              hot clear night, and windy.          Barom. 72 at
                         10  P.M.
24      72   29-90     SE— S—SW.— Very hot,          clear and calm at
        91   .          7 A.M. ; at 9 A.M. some cirrus ; fine day;
                        some rain before 8 P.M.              Thunder and
                        lightning ; very red sunset ; nimbus and
                        lightning at night*.
25     71    29-S5     SW. — Clear, cumuli, and sun; fine day, sun
        81              and wind; clear at night, but some ciVro-
                        slralus NW. Moon last quarter.
26     74    29-90     SE. — Sun and wind ; cirroslratus ; and very
       77                hot, fine, clear, and windy; some rain after
                        5 P.M. ; night clear, clouds, and wind.
 27    70    29-85     SE— W— NW.— Sun and cirroslratus ; clouds
       73               and sun ; dark nimbus NW ; showers and
                        wind after 1 P.M. ; night cloudy and windy.
 28     57   30-20     NW—W.— Sun and wind; fine day; windy;
        72              clear star-light.
29     64    30 20     NE. — Hazy; sun and clouds ; fine day; fine
        74              star-light.
30     64    30•55     NW. —Windy and gray        ; sunny     day; fine hot
        79              star-light night.
31     67    30-55     W— NW. — Gleams of sun;           fine day; windy;
        74              after 3 P.M. some rain;           cloudy evening;
August                   star-light at 1 1 P.M.
  1     60   30-00     NW. — Gray and windy; the dust scarcely
       66                laid by the rain;     cumuli and windy; fine
    * The Thermometer certainly    at 1 P.M. the 24th of August was 91 by
the Thermometer north-east side of the house ; but probably it was caused
by the great heat of the early sun not being gone off ; for at the tame hour
 another Thermometer which was hung on the north side of a large tree,
 and taken there from shade at 10 A.M., was only 88.
   Errata. — 15th June, read 60 Thermometer for 16, and the whole of
that day seems wrong in many respects : the wind was SE — SW— S.
   The Thermometer is omitted 12th and 13th July.
    12th July '66-73.
    13th July   63-75.
   The leaves fall like October ; the 5th August was the only morning in
-which a strong dew has been observed.
                                                                        day;

  158                            Meteorology.
 Date. Therm. Barom. Wind.
                         day ^ wry clear star-fight; Milky-way un-
 Jtugust
                    '
                          commonly bright.
   2 62     30-20      NW— E. — Clear, and windy; very fine day ;
  V     71        -      fine clear night.     New moon.
   3    55  30' 10     SE. — Fine morn; fine dav; star-light.
        71
   4    62  30-10     SE. — Cleai and fine mottled cirrostraius; fine
        81               very hot day; clear night.
   5    62  30- 10     SE. — Fine sun ; clear; strong dew; very hot
       68                fine day; perfectly clear sky all day, and
                         windy; at 1 P.M. 88 under a large tree
     •
                         north side; dear night.               1
   6    67  30-05     SW—W—NW—N.— Clear and cumuli; fine
        86               hot day; clouds appeared before 2 P.M.;
                         cloudy night tiH near 11 P.M.; afterwards-
                        star-light.
   7    62  30'05     N — NW. — Clear and cirrostraius; hot sun }
        73              fine day; sun and wind; star-light; fine and
                        clear.
  8    64   30-10     W.— Gray      at 7 A.M.; at 10, sunny; at 11,
       74               hazy   ;  at 1 P.M. fine sunny day; star
                        light.
D      64  30-10      NE — E. — Gray; some drops of rain before
       77                11 A.M.; sunshine;        fine hot day; moon-
                        and star-light.      Moon first quarter.
10     63   29-95     NW—N— E— NE.— Sun, wind, and cirro-
       71               stratus ; fine day, clear windy night.
11     59  30-SO      E — NE. — Clear and windy; cumuli and clear ;
       69               fine day; clear night.
12     59  30-20      E — NE.— Gray fine morn; fine day; sun and
       7 1              wind ; clear night.
13     57  30-10      NE. — Fine sunny morn; very fine day, snn
       73               and wind    ; clear night.
14     58  30-10      N — NE. — Gray morn; fine day; some drops
                        of rain about 7 P.M. ; moon, stars, and light
                        cumuli.
15     57  30-10      N. — Cloudy and windy; distant hills hazy;
       67               wind and clouds ; and gleams of sun; cloudy
                        night.
                                                             METEORO-

                                   Meteorology.                             ISSf
            METEOROLOGICAL           JOURNAL KEPT AT          BOSTON,
                                  LINCOLNSHIRE.
     [The time       of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at 1 P.M.]
            Age   of
   1818       the    Thermo     Baro     State of the Weather and Modification
            Moon       meter.   meter.              of the Clouds.
            DAYS.
July ia        12       77-5     30-41 Very fine
       16      13       83-      30-34 Ditto
       17 full          72-      30'29 Cloudy — shower A.M.
       18 15            75-5     30-16 Very fine — heavy rain with thunder
                                            in the evening
       19     16        76-      30-06 Ditto
       20     67        69-      30-08 Cloudy — rain P.M.
       21     18        75-      30-01   Ditto
       22     19        79-      30-15 Very fine
       23     20        81-5     30-17 Ditto
       24     21        91•      29-90 Ditto
            3   P.M. 92-5                with the hulk only — shaded and a
                                            cloud over the sun 101-5 not
                                            withstanding a brisk breeze
       25     22        85-5     29•89   Ditto
       26     23        84-      29-90 Ditto    — rain in the evening, with a
                                            particularly beautiful appearance
                                            of the rainbow
       27     24        71-5     29-93   Cloudy
       28     25        69-      30-30   Fine
       29     26        75-      30-25   Ditto
       30     27        76-      30-16   Ditto
       31     28        76-5     30-08   Cloudy
 Aug.    i    29        66-      30-07   Ditto
         s new          69-      30-24   Fine
         3      1       70-      30-15   Ditto
         4,     2.      79-      30-20   Very fine
         5      3       84-5     30-12   Ditto
         6      4       69-      30-15   Fine — rain  A.M.
         7      5       69-      30-14   Ditto
         8      6       71-5     30-17   Cloudy
         9      7       74-5     30-05   Fine — rain in the evening
       10       8       se       30-12   Ditto
       11       9       es-      30-31   Ditto
       12      10       705      30-24   Ditto
       13      1 1      66-      3028    Ditto
       14      12       59-      30-23   Cloudy
        15     13       63-      30-20    Ditto                       METE0RO-

                                       METEOROLOGICAL                      TABLE,
                            By Mr. Cary, of the Strand,
                                                For August 1818.
                    Thermometer.
                                                                            isofDry-
                                                                                         vsr
                                                                                          a ometcr.
Days of                                          lock,
                                                         Height of
                                                                              Leslie's
                                                                                 y
                 o'Clock,
                                                                                                             Weather.
                            Morning.
                                                  •      the Barom.
Month.
                                       5
                                       o                                       b                         •
                                                 °z        Inches.
                                                                            Degree          J
                 5                                                           ness        33
 July    27      69                    77       60         29-80              56                      Showery
         28      60                    74       64         30-20              58                      Fair
         29      64                    76       66           •13              60                      Fair
         30      67                    80       68           •10              66                      Fair
         31      67                    76       60           •42              56                      Fair
August    1      60                    72       59           •02              60                      Fair
                 60                             56           •08              58                      Fair
         4 3 2
                                       71
                 64                    75       59           •06               75                     Fair
                 64                    82'      68           •02              89                      Fair
                 68                    85       74           •02            102                       Fair
         6       74                    83       63       29-99                83                      Fair
          7      64                    74       66       30 01                91                      Fair
                 67                    78       68       29-97                72                      Fair
         9 8     66                             60                                                    Fair
                                       74                    •87              70
         10      68                    70       55       30.13                62                      Fair
         11      60                    69       54           •07              60                      Fair
         12      60                    69       57           •02             57                       Fair
         13      64                    67       59           •06             62                       Fair
         14      60                    64       58           •01             50                       Cloudy
         15      61                    66       59           •01             55                       Fair
         16      58                    70       59           •01             60                       Fair
         17      58                    71       63           -01              61                      Fair
         18      63                    71       56       29-91                75                      Fair
        19 56                          66      J5        30.02               60                       Cloudy
        20 56                          63       56           •04             56                       Cloudy
        21 58                          65       55           •06             56                       Fair
        22 55                          66       54          •14              57                       Fair
        23 53                          66       60          •22              58                       Fair
        24 61                          60       61          •17              56                       Fair
        25       61                    70       60          •11              57                       Fair
        26       60                    67       60       29-97               58                       Fair
                 N.B. The                    Barometer's    height   is   taken at one o'clock.

                                [  161   ]
XXIV. On      the Question    "  Whether Music is necessary to the
    Orator, — to what Extent, and how most readily attainable P"
    By Henry Upington, Esq.
                     [Continued from vol. li. p. 461.]
                            To   Mr. Tilloch.
          w    .                        Blair's Hill, Cork, July 2$, 1818.
Sir, — J. our      late Magazine for June having contained my
communication of the 10th of that month, without any further
introduction I shall proceed with my subject.
             Examination of The Speaker continued.
                  OF CERTAIN MODULATIONS, &C.
    Observation 4. — Aided by my associate (to whose excellent ear
I acknowledge myself indebted, and without whose concurrence
I have never once ventured to decide, throughout this interesting
inquiry), I now investigated, as minutely as possible, the most
prominent species of sentences and rhetorical figures which pre
sented themselves in animated conversation ; — but in vain, They
varied, it is true; yet the characteristic difference of anyone
species of either was absolutely undefinable ; the alteration of a
single word, or the slightest change of collocation, producing, in
the very same sentence, a difference in the modulation.               Even
the interrogatory itself was equally uncertain — the pitch ex
cepted, which towards the conclusion was generally, not always,
higher than that pitch which an answer to such interrogatory
would have produced.           The exclamation, especially when
 consisting of several words, was equally if not more variable in
its character than the Interrogatory; but, when constituted by
one or two syllables, and indicating surprise, it uniformly ascended
 the scale. The parenthesis appeared more regular, in one re
 spect, than either the Interrogatory or the Exclamation, its pitch
 being almoit always lower than that of the preceding or succeed
 ing passage.     Lastly, with regard to the veriou — even this (I
 speak of the tolerably well executed period) apparently possessed
 but one undeviating distinction ; namely, that its ultimate syl
 lable was at all times lower than the preceding one ; the jino.l
 cadence (as I shall call it), or falling of the voice at the con
 clusion, hardly ever extending itself so far backward as the ante
 penult.
     Remarks. — Our coincidence with ancient usage is equally con
 spicuous in the case of interrogatory as in that of the diapenle
  which was particularlv discussed in my paper of the 10th of June.
  .  Vol. 52. No.  245.^.1818.                        L          Quintilian

     162      *' Whether Musk is necessary        to- the Orator,—
    Quintilian iu a certain passage of his "Institutes" (the book and
    chapter of which I cannot immediately call to my recollection)
    assigns to this figure [interrogatory] the property of acuteness i
    his words I remember — "Interrogantei acuto tenore concludunt"
    [Interrogations terminate in an acute manner.]               This general
    practice among the Romans, so analogous to our own, could not
    however, any more than with ourselves, have affected all the in
    dividual syllables of which an interrogatory is composed j the
    general term acuteness being applicable to the ordinary genius,
    only, of such interrogatory on approaching its conclusion.
       The true character of this figure does not appear, in my mind,
   to have been justly appreciated by any of our modern gram
   marians ;— they have spoken at random, and were either incapa
   ble, or never took the trouble of analysing the question. In what
   then, independently of local usage, does the essence of interro
   gatory consist ? Not, most assuredly, in the elevation or de
   pression of any individual syllable or word, — nor yet in the com
   parative aeuteness or gravity of its general tenor, or even of its
   conclusion ; but — in opposition to the genius of the period — a
  suitable preparation having been made, it must terminate with a
  non-finish.     Every musician will understand me : and, to prove
  the practicability, in different ways, of this operation, in speech,
   I shall set the following sentence (which is intentionally com
  menced with a verb, and terminated by an emphatical word,)
  both iu an ascending and a descending form.
                                  Experiment.
       [The requisites for the execution of this passage will be found
  in the Philosophical Magazine for May. The second example,
  in particular, as deviating considerably from our ordinary habits,
  may require some little practice.          The judicious management
 of forte, and the avoiding of jerk, especially on the two last syl
 lables of the word " proportion," must be attentively regarded.]
                                                              -j* Ascending.
            Are  you sa-tis-fied with your own pro-por-tion i
                                              -o —nm-
                                                              2    Descending.
                                                                j>
      From the most cursory survey of both these interrogatories,
which are perhaps equally good; although the latter, notwith
standing its intentional termination with a flat fifth, has, when
well executed, been more generally preferred — is it not evident
that our grammarians have been very idly employed in ushering
                                                                        their

        to what   Extent, and how most readily atlainalleP"                 163
 their local habits or fanciful        chimeras'1'  into the oratorical world
 as the models     of perfection     ?    In modern Europe, where every
 desirable license compatible with the character of speech is given
 to the speaker, shall he not be permitted to play off his volun
 tary as he pleases ? Good taste and decorum should be his only
 guides.
     The exclamation and parent hesis require no comment. But
 not so with our periods, or rather that portion of our periods
 which, in this letter, I have already called the "final cadence-"
 the discussion of its peculiarity being important.                Our music
 possesses, in this instance, an unbounded latitude ; and such la
 titude being very frequent in our ordinary tunes, must it not ap
 pear that to the habitude of singing which prevails throughout
 society, may be attributed that imperfection so generally com
plained of in our public readers, and even indeed in our extem
poraneous orators, of falling immeasurably through the scale at
 the conclusion of their periods?
     Our popular songs, our psalms and hymns, have in all pro
bability contributed, particularly in this respect, to the injury of
our elocution    f;  the ear, too often habituated to four or five suc
 cessively descending syllables or notes, being intuitively led, in
 all cases of studied composition, to a similar modulation, of
which the character of speech can never realise the execution J.
 Hence syllable is tumbled upon syllable; non-articulation is the
result, and the die-away voice of the speaker becomes inaudible
 to all around him.
     I know not any song whatever, notwithstanding its five falling
    * At the  head of this list I shall place the " Elements of Elocution," and
 " Rhetorical Grammar," bythe late Mr. Walker. Take one of his own figures :
    What ! Eleven syllables, all descending in succession, and elided too—
without any intermediate elevation, repetition, or even sustentation ! Pre
posterous idea! Why did he not consult a musician ? No human being, in
any age or nation, not even Mr. Walker himself, could ever have uttered a
sentence in such a manner.
    \  Almost all the good singers and good musicians whom I ever knew,
were indifferent speakers : and I am acquainted with one person in particular,
whose elocution has been materially injured by the cultivation of the violin.
    J The successively ascending intervals with which our music abounds are
Almost equally injurious to oratory. Speech, without sing-song, rather
rarely exhibits two, arid h generally confined to one.
                                       L 2                                notes

164        "    Whether Music            is necessary to the    Orator,—
notes at the conclusion                           - —
                                                                           whose cha
                                    j^-^-^I— _-j—
racter more nearly approaches the character of speech, than our
national air of " God save the King:" divested of its time, it
may, with the exception of these notes, be almost spoken; a
quality peculiarly aocribable to certain passages of the recitatives
of Handel; but in no degree to those of our fashionable com
posers.
                                   the design of recitative, (which
   This great original, in fulfilling
is, or rather should be, no more than highly-coloured          reci
tation,) must, in my opinion, have closely attended to the mo
dulation of our best speakers, particularly our theatrical perform
ers; otherwise,     were impossible that such extraordinary com
                            it
positions could  have issued from his hand.      In the oratorio of
Athalia he has outdone himself and therefore  ;        shall confineI
myself, in the present observation on periods, to the close of that
remarkable passage already quoted in your Magazine for May*.
                   I    sbriek'd,   I       faint - ed,   and   I       fell.
    Here      the true art of speaking literally made visible
              is                                               and to           ;
this passage      would direct the particular attention of every ora
                   I
tor   ;for without some reasonable approximation to this excellent
method,       cannot see the possibility, in superior composition, of
              I
executing        graceful, and at the same time an audible period.
                   a
This method         closely analogous to the ancient practice.
                       is                                         The
voice was let down some few words before the closet             a new               :
level      level
          (if       may be called, while admitting of certain varia
                       it
tions) was the consequence of their accentual system          and the           ;
ultimate falling syllables, which never exceeded two. were go
verned        by
             the character of the final word.
 I   shall endeavour to illustrate this revel and these ultimate
syllables, as far as they relate to the terminating word of an an
cient period,           by
                      an appropriate example.       Suppose that the
   • In a more suitable plnce   shall gratify the reader with a transcript of
                                     I
the entire passage, of which the May Magazine contains but an extract.
  -f This letting down the voice may be called the rhetorical cadence, of
which Quintilian, in the xith book of his Institutes, chap. 3d, has given us
an example. Treating of the period which terminates the opening of the
iEneid, he says in the plainest terms, " When come to atque alia: moenia
                                                          I
Roma,      will lower my voice \clcponum"] and then form new beginning."
                                                                    a
Cicero in his " de Oratore" says that the last three words
          I
                                                                    should sup
                                                                         [I
pose independent words, exclusive of particles,] are sufficient for the govern
ance of   period.
          a
                                                                                        word

       to what   Extent, and how most readily attainalle ?"              165
word exemplification is equally Greek and Latin with respect to
its emphatic syllable ca, and that tde only existing difference is
dependent upon the notes, of which the highest or accent is
seated in the Grecian language upon the imemphatic syllable              fi;
and in the Latin upon the emphatic ca: Now, for the conclu
sion of a period with this identical word, it would necessarily he
                                        ....
expressed in the respective languages thus :
                                         ....
                      In the Greek,
                      In the Latin,
methods more lofty and less monotonous than ours ; preserv
ing, in the first place, the level or common tone throughout
every syllable preceding the accent — then rising, ad libitum
within the diapente, upon the accented syllable ; and lastly, fall
ing in like manner progressively* through the scale, on every
syllable which succeeds it.
    Although the musical reader must thoroughly comprehend
that falling is by no means necessary to a finish; yet Lord
Kaimes, in his " Elements of Criticism               and Mr. Sheridan in
his " Art of Reading," having inculcated the contrary doctrine
to the classical world, it becomes, in a certain degree, necessary
to refute them.       Had these gentlemen been at all acquainted
with our musical compositions, they must have seen not only the
practicability but the frequent introduction of the ascending
fmish — of the beauty of which the Greeks were so truly sensible,
that, even in speech, it constituted a part of their accentual va
riety  f.
    With what excellent effect has our celebrated Braham intro
duced this species of close, in his well-known song " On this
cold flinty rock,   &c."
               And      kiss from thy lids    the  sad  tear.
        Of the tonical Situation     of the emphatic
                                                           syllable.
    Observation 5. — The predominant, although by no means the
   * Aulus Gellius in his Noctes Attica, book xiii. chap. 24. has shown us
that the habit of progressively descending, after the accent, prevailed with
the ancients.   H s original words are " deinde gradatim descendant."
   f  In the Grecian language, when the last syllable was acuted it rose.
The Roman language being confined (in some degree, like our own,) to the
descending period, was more monotonous. — Quint. Instit. book xii. cap. 10.
                                      L  3                         universal

,166      "   Whether Music is necessary to tlie Orator,—                   -
 universal character of this syllable called by us the " accent"
 was that of elevation or acuteness.
    Remarks. — Notwithstanding      the closest investigation of this
 "  accent," it was found impossible to analyse the causes of its
 deviation from its- general character ; such deviation depending
 to all appearance rather on the mere circumstance of modula
 tion, or perhaps of habit, than on the nature of the existing sen
 timent or sentence. Its predominating genius                   I is,
                                                      for the present^
 sufficiently delineated     that passage which
                                 in                  have already set
 for the reader's perusal in your Magazine for May and which,           ;
 passage shall be repeated      the subsequent part of this article.
                                      in
 Other examples,       due time, may follow.
                        in
    Were  it   now demanded, whether an accentual language Hkc
 the Greek or Roman, or      non-accentual language like our own*,
                                 a
 (I  speak not of Euphony, in which we are infinitely excelled                            by
 both,)  is better calculated for expression      would not hesitate
                                                            ?   I
 to declare    favour of the modern and for this obvious reason —
              in                                   ;
 The fewer the shackles, the greater the latitude for the per^
 former.    Let    not however be understood that
                   it                                    would yield    I
 the preference to our own, or indeed to any other modern lan
 guage as generally spoken        the respective people of this or of
                                       by
 any other country: on the contrary, with all their accentual
  shackles,   I would prefer the ancient Greek, and perhaps the
  Roman too, as certainly possessing much more of grace and
  dignity, with an equal         not superior susceptibility of ex
                                      if
  pression.
      To form an adequate estimation of the dignity and expression
  of the ancient languages, which were intentionally destined for
  national characteristics,      would be indispensably necessary to
                                      it
  recitea   certain number of original passages, agreeably to the ac
  knowledged outlines of accent and quantity; or, in other words,
  of tone and of time — and to compare them, so recited, with a
                             ;
  certain number of our own but this arduous task, which the
                                           :
  powers of    a  Catalani or a Braham, combined with oratorical
  judgement, could with difficulty achieve, not being accomplish
  able  by  any ordinary musician, even        all the riecessary signs
                                                       if
  were previously invented, — we must content ourselves, on the
  present occasion, with      comparative exhibition of some certain
                                 a
   passage   in our  native tongue    and this rather as an object of
                                               ;
   literary curiosity than     decisive instance of Greek or Roman
                                 a
  preeminence.
     Let us suppose then, that in exemplification                       of our English
     * The particles with which our
                                     language abounds must render all at
  tempts at regular accentuation unavailing.   Our general modulation go»            is
  itemed, in great degree,        by
                               necessity, not choice.
                                                                                '
              a
                                                                                    -Usage^

          to what Extent, and how most readily attainable?"                    16•7
  usage, that passage which I have already given may be quoted
  in its original form ; thus *,
     Majr the monarchs of      England ever    cultivate the happiness of man.
  and that, agreeably to the usage of the Greek and Roman lan
  guages, the accentual rules of which are known to every gram
  marian f, this same passage were designated in the following
  manner, as if in those languages, for recital ;
     May the monarchs of England      ever cultivate   the happiness    of     man
     May the nuSnarchs     of England ever cultivate     the happiness   of man
 — must     we not instantly discern in these different forms (though
 all sufficiently good English) the respective genius of each indi
 vidual country ? and that, notwithstanding the theoretical jargon
 of our modern cavillers, the principles of delivery as well as of
 composition were thoroughly understood and cultivated by the
 orators of Greece and Rome ?
     Let us not therefore, in the petulance of self-conceit, decry
 those admirable masters whom posterity must everlastingly re
 vere ; but let us rather, in the consciousness of our own deficiency,
 search out their innumerable beauties, and adopt them as the
models for our imitation.
    • The reader should recollect all the previously suggested requisites for
execution, and should beware, too, of the over-extension of the final con
sonant n in the word "man." The upward slide with which I have ter
 minated this passage in the second example, must need the powers and the
Judgement of a master, ordinary execution being inadmissible ; nay, ludi
crous. This slide, though marked like a tlur, is continuous: two distinct
intervals must not be struck.
   + From minutest inquiry and repeated trials, I am strongly of opinion            •
ftat the emphatic syllable was at all times in the Roman language the
 " acute." consider the                               Not so with the Grecian ;
            [I             circumflex equivalent.]
its variety, in this respect, was almost infinite.      Hence the Roman lan
                                    —
guage was more lofty and strong the Greek more musical.
                       ,
                         '                                                   '
                               [To be continued.]
    [That alterations, from time to time, had taken place in the accentual
system both of the Greeks and Romans, is very probable.        In the foregoing
 Greek imitation I followed the instructions of Dionysius of Halicarnassus,
(taking Jt for granted (though perhaps incorrectly) that the last syllable of
                                                                           every

IGS                On the Astronomy       of the Orientals.
every word of two or more syllables over which the grave accent is set (as
in the present instance the last syllable of England) should be delivered in
an elevated monotone.
    I have thought it unnecessary to introduce the circumflex.   To this cha
racter the slide must always have been attached ; but whether the acute,
 properly so termed, should also have claimed, at all times, this privilege, it
is impossible to decide : with iwitis sometimes almost impracticable ; our
English short syllables very seldom admitting, under any circumstance, such
 graceful execution.
    These general observations on accentual properties, together with the
 examples which I have given, will sufficiently obviate the necessity of ha
 rassing my reader with detail: Volumes would not suffice for the answering
 of every objection with which some modern critics and grammarians have
perplexed themselves and others.]
     XXV.     On the Astronomy       of the  Orientals.      By A Cor
                                respondent.
                               To Mr. Tilloch.
 Sir, —     It  is much to be wished that we had more accurate in
 formation     respecting the modern astronomy of the Orientals ;
 particularly the Arabians, Persians, and the Hindoos ; especially
 when it is considered how this noble science flourished among
 them in former ages, and still continues in practice, as sufficiently
 appears in their compositions on the subject, and from the col
 lections of manuscripts imported into this and other countries of
 Europe. The superior advantages which the Oriental astronomers
 possess in regard of climate, in their observations of the celestial
 luminaries ; the serenity and purity of their atmosphere; the ex
 tent of their horizon in the plains of the East, added to their own
 diligent practice, conduce, at least, to promise some profitable re
 sults common to the interest of the science and satisfactory to the
 learned of other countries.        The theories which they hold, the
 tables they construct, and the instruments they use, are all ne
  cessary to be known before we can form a just estimate of their
 merits, and advancement in the knowledge of astronomy.
      When perusing an inquiry of this sort, I accidentally met with
 some astronomical measures of time relating to the sun and
  moon, according to the calculations of the Hindoo astronomers,
 and by which the Bramins, Moguls, and other Mohammedans
 jn India chiefly go, in the reckoning of time, as noticed by Mr.
  Fraser in his History of Nadir Shah, p. 2 of his book, which I
 found on examination so justly to conform to the measures in
 our more popular treatises of Astronomy, that I cannot but
 transmit the remarks, for the consideration of your astronomical
 readersj and here subjoin them :

                  On the Astronnmy     of the Orientals.                169
   The lunar year thev reckon 354 days, 22 gurris, 1 pull.   The
solar year they reckon 365 days, 15 gurris, 30 pulls, 221 peels,
Indian time ; — 60 peels making 1 pull, 60 pulls 1 gurri, and 60
gurris 1 day.   According to which the following table is con
structed.
              Peels.      Pulls.      Gurris.          English time.
                            • • • •    - • • •           I second
                   12i      ¦• • •     ....              5    sec.
                   25       • a ••     ....             10 sec.
                  371       • • . .    ....            15 sec.
                   50       - • • •    • • . .         20 sec.
                  75           n       • • •       i   30 sec.
                 150           21      • • . .           1 minute
                 750         121       • • . .           5 miff.
                1500         25        • i . •         10 mm.
                2250         371       •   .   • •     15 min.
                3600         50        • • . .         20 min.
                4500        75                 H       30 min.
                9000       150                 21        1 hour
               18000       300                 5         2 hours
              27000        450                 71        3 hours
              36000        600             10            4 hours
              45000        750             121           5 hours
              54000        900             15            6 hours
              81 000      1350             221           9 hours
             108000       1800             30           12 hours
             216000       3600             60             1   day
      From this table it appears that the Indian year, of 365 days,
 15 gurris, 30 pulls, and 22^ peels, is equal to 365 days, 6 hours,
12 minutes, and 9 seconds of our time; and accords with our,
sidereal year nearly, which is stated at 365 days, 6 hours, 9 mi
nutes, and 141 seconds.     The Indian lunar year, reckoned at
354 days, 22 gurris, 1 pull, measures 354 days, 8 hours, 48
minutes, 24 seconds, English time; which very nearly corresponds
with that settled in our tables at 354 days, S hours, 48 minutes,
36 seconds. — See Ferguson's Astronomy , chap. xxi. art. 373.
   The lunar cycle, or period of 19 years, as also that called the
Chaldean or eclipHc period, confessedly originated with the
Eastern astronomers : — and that we may see the agreement of the
Oriental astronomers with our European calculators, 1 here insert
the measure of 19 sidereal and lunar years after both accounts :
 tli  us,
                                                                       Indian

  170                On the Astronomy       of the Orientals.
                            Indian Time reduced.
                                     Days.    Hours.     Min.   Sec.
          19 X 365 days           = 6935          0       0      0
           19 x       6 hours    =        4      18      0       0
           19  x     12 min. =            0       3     48       0
           19  x      9 sec. =            0       0      2     51
          Indian time         . .   6939        21      50     51
  Ferguson's Tables, p. 190, 6939               20      55     35 1
          Difference                 • « <¦      k ¦   54      15|
  Hence the difference between the Indian and European is 54
 min. 15 f sec. in 19 sidereal years.
                       Indian Lunar Years reduced.
                                   Days.     Hours.    Min.    Sec
          19   X 354 days = 6726                  0      0       0
          19 x        8 hours =          6        8      0       0
          19 x      48 min. =            0      15     12       0
          19 x 24 sec. =                 0        0      7    36
      19  x   12 lunations     = 6732           23     19     36
               6 lunations      = 177            4     24     12
                1 lunation     =        29      12     44       2
            235 lunations = 6939                16     27     50
   Do. by English tables =c 6939                16     26     51
         Difference                 • ¦• •      • «    • •    59
    The difference between 285 lunations composing the lunar
cycle of 19 years by both reckonings less than one minute! This
 statement I hope is accurate so far as my documents go; and
considering the supposed ignorance of the Eastern astronomers
io the elements of true science, their want of necessary and ac
curate mathematical instruments, and the skill for the more pro
found and elaborate calculations of our European and justly fa
mous practitioners, their determination on the exact measures
of the sidereal and lunar year is truly admirable, and deserving
our highest commendation.
    It remains to inquire how such extraordinary agreement in
calculations so intricate, and by observers so remotely distant,
and unconnected, should coincide in the instances above given.
    Hipparchus, who flourished about 140 years before the Chris?
tian aera, first discovered the sidereal year to exceed the solar or
tropical year ; and thence concluded, tfyat the fixed stars had a
                                                                     slow.

             On the Performance     of the Apolhnlcon.          171
slow annual motion of their own ; and Thebites, an Arabian,
about the year of Christ 1200 determined the sidereal year at
365 days 15 prime scruples, or 6 hours and 23 second scruples,
or 9 minutes 12 seconds, which agrees nearly with the English
and French astronomers, or within about 12 seconds. — See La
Gaille's Elements, translated by Robertson, art. 471, p. 204.
The Indian astronomers, who compute the same at 365 day*
6 hours 12 min. 9 sec, do therefore exceed the truth by at least
3 minutes; which difference, although considerable, may possibly
be reconciled if we were more accurately informed of the process
of their calculations. I am, sir,
                              Yours most respectfully,
                                                             T.Y.
XXVI. On     the Performance    of the Apollordcon,   constructed by
                   Messrs.    Flight    and Robson.
                         To    Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, —   I  beg leave to present to the notice of your reader*
some account of a musical instrument that has for some months
past been exhibiting in St. Martin's Lane, the extraordinary
powers of which reflect the highest credit on the ingenious in
ventors, and well deserve the attention of -all who have a taste
for music, or for mechanism, and who are anxious to encourage the
successful efforts of genius; — I allude, sir, to the Ap.illonicon,
an instrument invented by Messrs. Flight and Robson, organ-
makers.    I have at different times attended the performances
on this instrument ; and, in return for the great gratification I
have received, shall be happy,    if,through your permission, my
humble efforts, in thus calling the attention of amateurs of music
to it, through the medium of your valuable work, should tend
iu the least to promote the interest of those eminent artists.   I
understand, sir, that two or three instruments, on the same
principle as the Apollonicon, but on a much smaller scale, wera
previously made    by  Messrs. F. and R. for different noblemen
and gentlemen, about six or seven years ago, which they sub
mitted to the inspection of their musical friends, from whom
they met with the highest approbation.        I  had often heard of
the extraordinary powers of those instruments, which were built
for Lord Kirkwall and the Duke of Leinster, but from particular
circumstances had never an opportunity of hearing them.
  It  was, understand, from the flattering marks of approbation
         I
that were bestowed on those specimens of their abilities, that the
inventors were induced to commence the magnificent instrument
p   question, which should combine the superior delicacy of ex
                                                            pression

   172         On the Performance   of the Apolhnieon.
  pression that those instruments possessed, with the grandeur of
  tone, which from their want of size they were incapable of.
  There is in Dr. Rees's Cyclopcedia, under the article Organ, a
  copious description of the first instrument that was built for
  Lord Kirkwall, explaining its principles, construction, and effects,
  to which I should beg to refer your readers for an explanation of
  its mechanical properties.
     I recollect seeing a prospectus, about five years ago, stating
  the object of the inventors in setting about to construct the
  Apollonicon, at a value of 10,000/., under the sanction of His
  Royal Highness the Prince Regent, who having heard Lord Kirk
  wall's organ, had been pleased to bestow his unequivocal appro
  bation and patronage to their efforts. The instrument was at
  that time commenced; and accordingly, after a period of five
  years of labour, expense and anxiety, the Apollonicon was opened
  for public exhibition in June 1817 ; since which time it has been
  heard by many thousands, who by their approbation have borne
  testimony to its merits.
     This magnificent instrument is on the principle of the organ;
 is twenty-four feet in height, twenty feet wide, and about twelve
 feet deep, and contains in the whole about three thousand pipes;
 the largest of which, of wood, is sixteen feet long, by eighteen
 and twenty-one inches wide.       By certain qualities and combi
 nations of the different pipes, the effect of flutes, oboes, clario
 nets, bassoons, horns, &c. &c. is produced in a very superior
 style ; the whole powers of which, with the variety of changes
 they are capable of, are acted upon by three immense cylinders
 or barrels of six feet each in circumference, impelled by a me
 chanical power : on which barrels are set, at present, the cele
 brated overtures to Anacreon, and Clemenza di Tito. The ex
 traordinary precision, expression, brilliancy of execution, and
 the rapidity with which the instrument performs the different
 changes, in these two pieces, have astonished and delighted the
scientific and musical world.
     The Apollonicon possesses also the capability of being acted
 upon by performers ; it has five sets of keys, on which five pro
 fessors may play at the same time. The principal set, on which
one performer may play, commands the power of a very grand
organ, with a sweetness and expression superior to any thing I
have ever before heard ; combining the expressive quality of the
violin, the sublimity of the organ, and the extreme delicacy of
the musical glasses: the other sets of kevs command the effects
of the different wind instruments, as flutes, oboes, bassoons, &c.
&c. The whole combined bring into play the full powers of the
instrument.      By a judicious arrangement of the different parts
of a grand piece of music the finest effect may be produced by
                                                                       '
                                                               these

Experiments for determining the Length         of the Pendulum.   173
these five sets of keys, equal in grandeur to an orchestra of one
hundred and fifty performers.
    During the winter season, Messrs. Flight and Robson have
given, at stated periods, a series of instrumental evening concerts
on the instrument ; for the conducting of which they have been
so fortunate as to engage a professor, before not sufficiently
known, Mr. Thomas Adams, but whose musical abilities are such
as to rank him in the highest class of his profession.      Under his
direction, and accompanied by four other eminent professors,
have been performed some of the finest selections of classic
music from the compositions of Dr. Boyce, Purcell, Bach,
Handel, Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, &c. &c.              The approba
 tion with which these performances have been honoured by a
numerous class of visitors evinces that the English, who have
hitherto been considered not as a musical people, are perfectly
capable of appreciating and admiring, to the fullest extent, real       «r
good.;music, when placed before them. The highest praise is
due to the proprietors of the Apollonicon, for thus introducing a
 species of performance that by its superiority will tend to culti
 vate the rising musical taste ; and I trust that the lovers of music
 will continue to render that encouragement and patronage to the
 instrument, in the next season, which its superior merits are so
 deservingly entitled to.
                             I am, sir,
                                 Your obliged servant,
                                                      An Amateur.
 &XVII. An      Account of Experiments for determining the Length
     of the Pendulum   vibrating Seconds in the Latitude of London.
     By Capt. Henry Kater, F.R.S.
                         [Continued from p. 100.]
  Of the Apparatus    and Methods employed for the Measurement
      of the Distance  between the Knife Edges, and for the Com
     parison of the British Standard Measures of the highest Au
     thority.
 The       microscopes used for this purpose were made by Mr.
  Thomas Jones, of Cockspur-street.         They are both furnished
 with cross threads of spider's web, as well as with a single thread
  for the purpose of bisecting a dot if required, and are in other
  respects of a similar construction with those described by Sir
.George Shuckburgh Evelyn, in the Philosophical Transactions
  for 1798, but are jnore powerful, and the micrometer is capable
 of far greater precision.
     The object-glass of the micrometer microscope      is of one inch
                                                                 focus,

        An Account' of     Experiments   for determining    the Length  of
   focus, the distance from the object-glass to the spider's threads
  3•25 inches, the focus of the compound eye-glass rather less than
  one inch, the magnifying power 18 times.           In the other micro
  scope, which I shall call the fixed microscope, the object-glass
  is of three-quarters of an inch focus, and the magnifying power
  consequently greater.         The micrometer head is divided into one
  hundred parts.
      Each microscope slides in a tube, which is fixed in a plate of
  brass forming part of its support} and this plate moves in a dove
  tail, by which the microscope may be brought over the object
   to be viewed, when it is firmly clamped by a screw.
      A piece of well-seasoned mahogany, four inches and three-
  quarters, by three inches, served as a beam to which the sup
  ports of the microscopes were screwed, their centres being 39'4
  inches asunder.
      Two screws with milled heads supported the extremities of
  the beam in front, and a piece projecting from the middle of the
  beam behind served as a third leg.          By means of the screws,
  the  focus  of  either microscope   could  be nicely adjusted at plea
  sure, without any risk of altering their distance from each other.
      My first object was to ascertain the degree of precision of
  which vision is capable when assisted by the microscope. For this
  purpose, a very fine line was drawn on a polished piece of brass;
  and the microscope being carefully adjusted so as to be free from
 parallax, by causing the image of the line to bisect the angles
 formed by the spider's threads, moving the eye to the right and
 left and remarking whether the image changed its situation, and
 if it didj varying the distance of the microscope from the object
 accordingly, until the line appeared stationary, the micrometer
 screw was turned back, and the spider's threads brought up
 again till the angle formed by them appeared to be accurately
 bisected by the line.       The division of the micrometer was then
                                                                           '
 noted,   and   this was  repeated several times with scarcely a sensi-
 ble difference in the result ; and thus I assured myself that no
 error worthy of remark was to be apprehended from imperfection
 of vision.
     The next step was to determine the value of one division of
the micrometer head.          By the kind interest of Sir Joseph Banks,
 I  was favoured with the use of the standard scale which belonged
to the late Sir George Shuckburgh Evelyn, and which is de
scribed in the Philosophical Transactions for 1798.           This scale,
the work of Mr. Troughton, is second to none in the kingdom
in point of accuracy of division, and is too well known to render
any further remark necessary.          The microscope being carefully
adjusted    for  parallax,   one inch, from  the 39th to the 40th, was
measured by       successive  tenths, and the mean taken as the value

the Pendulum vibrating Seconds in the Latitude          of London. 1/5
of one-tenth of    an inch.    The measurement of the         same mch
was repeated ten times at different periods,       the  microscopes be
ing previously adjusted anew each time for parallax.           The mean
results of such measurements are as follows :
        Divisions of  the Micrometer     to 1-10<A    of an Inch.
                    2335- 00                    2335-75
                    2333- 75                    2338-30
                    2337-55                     2335-85
                    2337-32                     2337-85
                    2334- 50
                    2336- 90           Mean 2336-277
Hence the value of one division of the micrometer appears to be
                                     <
-rrbr of an mcn-
    In the course of these measurements, differences occurred for
which I was at a loss to account ; but at length it appeared that
they were to be attributed to remaining parallax ; for, whatever
care be taken in adjusting the microscope, it is scarcely possible
to bring the image of the object precisely in the same plane with
the threads, and the image will consequently be of various di
mensions, according to its distance from this plane.             Unless,
therefore, the most minute attention be paid to the adjustment
for parallax, the error arising from this cause will be consider
able ; and I may here remark, that I believe the difficulty of
bringing the image into the plane of the threads, to be the source
of by far the most serious errors to which measurements by
means of microscopes are liable.
    I had now to examine the quality of the threads of the mi
crometer screw.       For this purpose, two fine lines were drawn
Bear each other on a piece of brass ; and the micrometer being
turned back as far as it would go, the distance of the lines was
carefully measured ; and this was repeated, proceeding through
the whole length of the screw, always advancing the micrometer
one revolution previous to each successive measurement.             The
 result of this severe test will best appear by giving the numbers
themselves.
                     Divisions of the Micrometer.
           5020                 502-5                   501-0
           501-5                502 0                   502-5
   '       501-0                502 0                   501-0
           5020                 502-5                   500-0
           501- 5               501-0                   500-0
           502- 0               501-5                   500-5
           502-0                502-0           Mean 501-5
The    mean  is 501•5,   and  the  greatest  difference  from the mean
only one division, amounting        to rrrrr    oi **i inch, a degree of
                                                                accuracy

176    An Account of Experiments for determining the Length of
accuracy truly surprising, when it is considered that all errors of
observation are included in this minute quantity.
                 Comparison     of the different Standards.
    The microscopes being placed at the distance of              39•4 inches,
were advanced by single tenths, from zero of the scale through
the space of two inches; and the mean of twenty measurements
thus obtained being compared with the distance from zero to
39'4 inches, this last was found to be in defect 1•2 divisions of
the micrometer, or '00005 of an inch.               And as this is the por
tion of the scale employed in ascertaining the distance between
the knife edges, this difference must ultimately be subtracted to
obtain the distance of the knife edges, in parts of the mean value
of the scale*.
     From the high importance which attaches to General Roy's
scale, as having formed the basis of the Trigonometrical Survey
of the kingdom, I was particularly desirous of comparing it with
 that of Sir G. Shuckburgh, in order that 1 might be enaWed to
give the length of the pendulum in parts of that standard which
constitutes the foundation of one of the most important scien
tific operations ever carried on in this country.                 Fortunately,
this scale was purchased at the sale of General Roy's effects by
 Mr. Browne, who readily confided it to my care. From the mean
 of a number of comparisons, I found the distance from zero to
39-4 of General Roy's scale, equal to 39-40144 of Sir G. Shuck-
burgh's standard f.
     The standard yard made by Bird in 1758, for the House of
 Commons, better known by the name of Bird's Parliamentary
 standard, is little adapted for measurements where great preci
 sion is necessary.        The yard is determined by two large dots
 made on gold pins which are let into a bar of brass. The mean of
                                                                       a nura-
    * From an examination of this scale by the late Sir G. Shuckburgh, it
 appears that the greatest liability to error is -00033 of an inch, or, as cor
 rected by Mr. Troughton, -000165 of an inch, the chances against which are
 as 0 to 1 .
    f  The very great difference between this result and that stated by Sir Geo.
 Shuckburgh, in the Philosophical Transactions for 1798, renders it necessary
 for me briefly to detail the manner in which the comparisons were made.
 The two scales were placed in contact, and remained thus for twenty-four
 hours; after which, sixteen comparisons were taken in the course of the
 day; but these were rejected in consequence of the temperature having in
 creased six degrees during the operation.      When the scales had been to
 gether forty-eight hours, sixteen ether comparisons w ere made during two
 succeeding days, the thermometer remaining steadily at 70". The greatest
 difference between any one of these last and the mean result, did not
  amount to four divisions of the micrometer.      The mean of the first set of
 observations exceeded that of the last by -00017 of an inch. Imagining
 that the difference between Sir George Shuckburgh 's result and mine, might
                                                                        possibly

        the Pendulum vibrating Seconds in the Latitude                  of London.    177
    a number of bisections of these dots gave their distance equal to
    36-00016 inches of Sir George Shuckburgh's scale.
                              Measurement      of the   Penduluth.
        The pendulum was let into a solid piece of mahogany edge
    wise, to such a depth that the knife edges were about one-
    twentieth of an inch above its surface.        To one end of the pen
    dulum a common spring steelyard was attached by its hook, and
    a string being passed through the ring, and fastened to an up
    right piece of wood screwed to the end of the mahogany case,
    the pendulum was extended by a force rather greater than its own
    weight (about ten pounds), and consequently, no error               any     (if
    such were to be apprehended) could arise from difference in the.a
    length of the pendulum       its vertical and horizontal positions.
                                    in
        The knife edges were fixed as nearlv as could be done           me      by
    chanical means, at right angles to the bar of the pendulum          but
,
                                                                                 ;
    the bar being flexible, they would most probably, when the pen
     dulum was extended for the purpose of measurement, be found
     to be not precisely parallel to each other, and would consequently,
     require some adjustment.        To effect this, two opposite screws
    were passed through the sides of the mahogany case, so as to
     act in    transverse direction against that extremity of the pen
               a
    dulum which was next the steelyard and the microscopes being
                                                      ;
    brought over the extreme points of the knife edges, alternately
     on either side of the bar, the requisite parallelism was readilv
     obtained       by
                    means of the screws, sufficient room having been
     left    the mahogany case for the very small motion of the ex
             in
     tremity of the pendulum which might be found necessary. This
      arrangement      represented
                         is            Plate III. fig. 5.*
                                          in
         To obtain the distance between the knife edges, two different
     methods were used.       For the first, four rectangular pieces of
     brass were prepared, about half an inch square. Very near to the
    'perfectly straight edge of each,         fine line was drawn, to lie
                                                  a
     viewed through the microscope, and these lines were each crossed
     at right angles          by
                          two others, intended to indicate that part of
        possibly be occasioned by an error in the divisions bounding that part cf
        General Roy's scale which  I  had employed,   Icompared with various other
                                                                     it
        portions, and found no greater difference than might have been expected
        from unavoidable imperfection of division.    It to be presumed then, that,
                                                           is
        the error into which Sir George Shuckburgh appears to have fallen, must
        have arisen from the two scales not having been of the same temperature
        at the time they were compared, particularly as Sir George Shuckburgh's
        is by far the most massive of the two.     I  may here add, that last winter
        wishing to know whether the expansion of the two scales was equal,              1
        roughly compared them together once, at the temperature of 33°, when            it
         appeared that 42 inches on General Roy's scale, was equal to about 42 001
        inches of Sir George Shuckburgh's standard.       ,
           *
              [This Plate will be given with a future Number.]
        Vol. 52. No.245. Sept.         iai8.                    M                     the

173   An Account of Experiments fur determining the Length of
                                              y
the first line from which the measurements were to be taken.
These pieces were marked A, a, and B, b.
   The pieces A and a, being placed with their edges in contact,
in which position they were kept by the pressure of a spring, the
distance between the fine lines first drawn was carefully measured
with the micrometer, and from a mean of eight observations, the
greatest difference between which did not exceed one division,
was found to be 329 -09 divisions.
   The same was done with the pieces B and b, and the distance
of the lines from a mean of sixteen observations appeared to
be 366-96 divisions.
   The knife edges being adjusted as nearly as possible parallel
to each other, the pieces A, a, and B, b, were placed in contact
with those parts of the knife edges on either side of the bar, on
which the vibrations were to be performed, and were retained in
their places by the pressure of slight springs attached to the'                   #
mahogany case.
    The microscopes were now brought over the pieces A and a, so
as for the lines before described to bisect the cross threads, wherr
the division of the micrometer was noted.
   The same was done with the pieces B and b; and the division
 of the micrometer was also registered.
    The pendulum being removed, the standard scale* was placed
beneath the micrometer ; and its zero being made to bisect the
angles of the fixed microscope, the cross threads of the micro
meter microscope were brought to -39•4 of the scale, and the
revolutions and parts of the micrometer were noted.
    From these data, and the respective distances of the lines on
A and a, and on B and b, when the pieces were in contact, the
distance of the knife edges on either side of the 'bar maybe
readily obtained, and the mean being taken, will obviously cor
rect any error arising from a want of perfect parallelism in the
knife edges.
    It is very generally believed that measurements from a knife
edge, or from a line terminating a surface, are liable to much
uncertainty from what has been called irradiation, or indistinct
ness of the image. But this is by no means the fact; for, if the
reflection of light from the knife edge be prevented, and it be
viewed on a white ground, it may be made to bisect the cross
threads of the microscope, with nearly the same precision as
could be attained by the use of aline.     There           is,
                                                     however,    cor   a
rection necessary to be applied       this case, and
                                         in            shall proceed
                                                                 I
to describe the method employed for ascertaining its amount.
  A   slip of writing-paper was pasted on the mahogany case, under
each knife edge, extending beyond        about the tenth of an inch,
                                              it
 *    The scale constantly referred to   is   Sir George Shuckburgh's standard.
                                                                           and

  the Pendulum vibratmg Seconds in the Latitude              of London. 1J9
  and adjoining was a piece of black paper to prevent the reflec
  tion of light on the knife edge from the surrounding objects.
  The knife edge now appeared through the microscope, as a well
  defined dark object on a white ground.
      Marks were made on the paper close to the knife edges at
  equal distances on each side of the bar.              These were intended
  to indicate those parts of the knife edges equally distant from
  the middle, from which the measurements were to be taken.
      The knife edges being adjusted parallel to each other, in the
  manner before described, the microscopes were brought succes
   sively over such marks on the paper, as were at the same distance
  from the bar; and the mean of each pair of observations being re
  ferred to the scale, gave a distance of the knife edges free from
  any error which would be occasioned by a want of parallelism.
      The knife edges bisecting the cross threads of the micro-
i scopes, pieces of black paper were slid beneath them, when they
   appeared to start forwards towards each other, the images con
   tinuing perfectly sharp and well defmed.
      The distance between the knife edges appeared to be now con
   siderably less than before ; and it remained to determine the
   difference, in order to apply its half, as a correction to the di
  stance first obtained.
       For this purpose, the reading of the micrometer was taken
   when the knife edges were viewed as dark objects on a white
   ground, and also when they were seen as light objects on a black
   ground.     The difference of such readings will obviously give
  double the correction required.             The results are contained in
   the following table.
                    Divisions of   Divisions of
                    theMicrom.     theMicrom.
                    the ground     the ground Difference.
                    being white.   being black. •
                       320            44-0         12-00
                        19-5     .    30-0         10-50
                        175           28-0         10-50
                        16-5          27-7         11 -20
                        12-5          25-0         12-50
                        12-5          22-0          9-50
                        120           23-0         11-00
                        100           21-0        '1100
                         97            18-0         8-30
                         5-5           19-0        13-50
                         5-7           16-5        10-80
                         5 0           16-5        11-50
                                       Mean        11.03

                                                                             '
180   An Account of Experiments for determining          the   Length   of
  From the above table it   seems that 5•5   1   divisions (or •0002SS
of an inch) are to be subtracted from the distance obtained when
the knife edges are viewed as dark objects on a light ground;
and on the contrary, the same quantity to be added when they
are seen as light objects on a dark ground.
   From the few experiments I have made, this quantity appears
to be the same, whatever may be the relative illumination of the
object and its ground, so long as the difference of character iff
preserved.    On the cause of this extraordinary fact I can hazard
no conjecture, and, it remains, an interesting subject for future:
investigation.
                  Of the Expansion of the Pendulum.
    The composition of brass is so various, that probably no two
specimens possess precisely the same rate of expansion.         It be
came therefore necessary to determine the expansion of the pen
dulum by direct experiment, instead of adopting the conclusions
of others, and for this purpose the following method was used. A
trough of deal was made of a length sufficient to receive the bar
intended for the pendulum, which was placed edgewise in the
middle of the trough, being secured at one end by wedges on
both side3.     The bar was supported on small pieces of glass
tube, serving as rollers to prevent friction, and the trough was of
the same depth as the width of the bar.
    Two transverse lines were drawn near the extremities of the
edge of the bar, distant from each other 49-5 inches, and a third
line Was subsequently drawn one inch beyond. The microscopes
were pliiced over the lines, and left, together with a thermometer,
for twenty-four hours previous to the'experiment.
    The temperature being then registered, and the microscopes
having been examined to see that the lines bisected the angles
formed by the spider's threads, the trough was filled with hot
 water to the edge of the bar, and two thermometers were placed
 in     one just beneath the surface of the water, and the other at
      it,
 the bottom of the trough.        The bar rapidly expanded, and the
 line on    itwas followed  by   the micrometer till     itbecame sta
 tionary.    The  bisection  was  then perfected, and  the  mean of the
 degrees shown        bythe thermometers registered, together with
 the number of revolutions and parts made           bythe micrometer.
 The whole was now suffered to remain till the temperature had
 become several degrees lower, When the contraction of the bar,
  occasioned      such decrease of temperature, was measured, and
                 by
 thus several   successive  observations were made, Which are con
  tained in the following table.
                                                                  Distance

the   Pendulum vibrating Seconds in the Latitude of London,                        181
        Distance between the lines on the bar,               495 inches.
  Highest         Lowest    Diff. of   Division of the Expansion in part3 of the
   Temp.          Temp.     Temp.       Micrometer.     length for each degree.
       0              O        0
       96             43      53           620              •000010116
       93             43      50           5 SO             •000010030
        Distance between the lines on the bar, 50 5 inches.
       91             43      48           600              •000010616
       89             84        5           70              •000011890
       83             75        8           89              •000009448
       75             61      14           149              •000009038
       SO             44      36           400              •000009436
       80             60      20           215              •000009129
       73             60       13          152              •000009930
           -
                            vlean of the whole,             •000009959
The mean -000009959 may be taken                        as the expansion   of the
pendulum in parts of its length due to                  a change   of temperature
of one degree of the thermometer.
      Of       the Method    of deducing the Length of         the   Pendulum
                         vibrating Seconds.
   The distance between the knife edges was taken when the
standard scale and the pendulum were both of the same tempe
rature ; and as this temperature did not differ considerably from
62°, the difference in the rate of the expansion       any) between(if
the pendulum and the scale may be neglected as perfectly in
sensible, and 62° be considered as the temperature of measure
ment.
   The number of vibrations made                   by
                                          the pendulum in 24 hours,
having   been  determined  at   differenta  temperature, the length
qf the pendulum will be greater or less as the temperature of
observation exceeds or falls short of 62D; and          applving theby
expansion due to such difference of temperature, derived from
the experiments contained       the preceding article, the distance
                                         in
of the knife edges, or length of the pendulum, will be known for
the temperature at which the number of vibrations was deter
mined, whence the length of the pendulum vibrating seconds
may be readily deduced, the lengths of pendulums being to each
other inversely in the duplicate ratio of the number of their                       vi
brations      24 hours.
                 in
                                              M3                                    Of

182    Experiments for determining the Length          of the Pendulum.
       Of the  Correction  for   the Buoyancy     of the Atmosphere.
    The length of the pendulum thus found, differing from what
it would have been had the vibrations been made in vacuo, it is
necessary to apply to it a correction for the buoyancy of the at
mosphere.
    For this correction, the weight of the pendulum, compared
with that of air, at the time of observation, must be known.
    The pendulum being composed of different kinds of brass, the
specific gravity of each part was carefully determined, and from
thence the specific gravity of the whole mass.
           Part of the Pendulum.         Weight in   Specific gravity.
                                            Air.
                                            lb.
        3 weights (cast brass) . . .   .   3-14         8-417
        4 knee pieces (cast brass)         S-13         7- 816
                                           3-30         8- 532
    From the above data, the specific gravity of the pendulum is
 8-469 ; or the weight of the pendulum compared with water is
 as 8-469 to 1.
    It has been determined by Sir George Shuckburgh (Phil.Trans.
 for 1777) that water is 836 times heavier than air, when the
thermometer is at 53°, and the barometer at 29-27 inches. But
 the specific gravity of air varies directly as the height of the ba
 rometer, and inversely as its expansion, which is known to be
 Tg-j-th part of its bulk for each degree of Fahrenheit : conse
 quently, for any o'Jier state of the barometer and thermometer,
 the number 836 will vary inversely as the height of the baro
 meter, and directly -j-J-g-th part for each degree of the thermo
 meter above 53".
     Thus the specific gravity of water, compared with that of air,
 may be known for the temperature and altitude of the barometer
 at the time of observation ; and multiplying this by the specific
 gravity of the pendulum, the ratio of the weight of the pendulum
 compared with that of air will be obtained.
    This ratio will express the diminution of the force of gravity
 arising from the buoyancy of the atmosphere ; and in order that
 the number of vibrations may be the same in vacuo as in air, the
 length of the pendulum must be increased in the proportion of
 this ratio to 1, the lengths of pendulums vibrating in the same
 time, varying directly as the force of gravity.
           •- -  •
                              [Tq  be continued.}
                                                               XXVIII. On

                                [    183   ]
 XXVIII.      On the very correct Notions concerning the Structure
     of  the   Earth, entertained by the Rev. John Michell, as
     early as the Year 1760; and the great Neglect which fas
     Publication of the same has received from later Writers on
      Geology; and regarding the Treatment of Mr. Smith, by
     certain Peisons.      By Mr. John Farey Sen., Mineral Sur
     veyor.
                              To  Mr. Tilloc/i.
 Sir, —     In   No. LVII1. of the " Edinburgh Review," published
 in February last, the Mineralogical Map and other Works of our
  deserving countryman William Smith, which are enumerated in
  p. 180 of your last volume, are reviewed, and in the historical
 sketch introductory to this Critique, the Writer has done an im
 portant service to the Cause of literary justice and to science (for
  which I beg to tender him my thanks) in pointing the attention
  of Geologists, to a paper in the Philosophical Transactions for
  the year 1760, of which the Reviewer thus speaks (in p. 316):
  " But the most important observations, we think beyond            com
 parison, that have ever yet* appeared on the subject of stratifi
  cation, are those of the Rev. John Michell, in a paper " on the
  Cause and Phaenomena of Earthquakes."
      I take shame to myself, that it was not until very lately, in
  consequence of the above paragraph, and the extracts from Mr.
  Michell's paper, which follow in the Review, that I procured
  the volume of Philosophical Transactions referred to, and read
  the paper, here so justly characterized ; especially as Mr. Bake-
  well, in the preface to his " Introduction to Geology" published
  in 1813, had said, " Mr. Michell was the first person who appears
  to have had any clear views respecting the structure of the ex
  ternal parts of the earth."       My long neglect of this paper has
  altogether arisen, from the observations regarding Earthquakes,
  in all the accounts which I remember to have read on that sub
 ject, being too much involved with the terrific and the marvellous,
  to appear to furnish sufficient facts, for any one to reason safely
   upon, as to their cause: and not from any wish to undervalue,
  much less to conceal what Mr. Michell had done, in what I have
  occasionally written regarding the progress and authors of Geo
   logical discoveries: as will, I think, be conceded to me, by all
   impartial persons, who will turn to the three places in your work
   (viz. vol. xxxvi. p. 102; vol. xxxvii. p. 175 Note ; and vol. xxxix.
   p. 94 Note), wherein I have mentioned my endeavours, to bring
   to light, and publish and explain, any papers on Geological sub-
      * This historical remark is introduced, between the account of what
•
   Lehman published in 1/51), and JVhitekunt in 1778,.
 ;
                                      M 4                           jeets,

  184                     Of the   Structure     of the Earth.
jccts, which Mr. Michell may have left behind him ; but unfor
 tunately for the science, his Son-in-law Sir Thomas Turfon, Bart,
 has stated, that none such can be found : — The Rev. Gentleman
 at Cambridge, who enjoys Dr. Woodward's salary for promoting
  Geological knowledge, has not (like the worthy Baronet men
 tioned above) satisfied my inquiry, whether anv papers relating
 to the order, thicknesses, &c. of the British Strata, were left by
 Mr. Michell in the Woodwardian Museum, at the time when
 he surrendered the charge of the same to a successor, many
 years ago : but I still hope, and so do manv others, that the
                                                                  -
 Reverend Gentleman will condescend to do so.
     My object therefore now is, to request the favour of you, to
 reprint Mr. Michell's paper in your Magazine, and allow me to
 place at the foot of some of its pages, a few explanatory Notes,
 iu the general confirmatory, from my own experience in widely
 and minutely exploring the British Strata, of the extraor
 dinary correctness of his views of the leading Geological facts of
 our island, considering the period at which he wrote, when and
 for long after which, scarcely anything which is now found to be
 really valuable, as to the Earth's structure, was put forth to the
 public.
     Here I cannot refrain from again adverting to the work of a
 late Oxford Professor, whose conduct towards my friend Mr.
 Smith*, I have already censured, (although but in a small degree,
                                                                               com-
                                                    i
    * The Gentleman alluded to in
                                        p. 17S of your last volume, as having called
 on Mr. Smith in November last, has since avowed himself to a common friend
 of Mr. Smith and myself, as the Author of the arfcle in the Edinburgh Review,
which is mentioned- above : he took at the time, a few desultory notes, of what
 Mr. Smith could state from memory, as to the dates and extent of h s labours
and discoveries, but he positively declined then to tell Mr. S. /-_ what particular
purpose, he was making such application to him ; and he evaded the attending of
a select mceling of Mr. Smith's friends, when such a Statement as that he had
requested, was to be prepared and settled, after due deliberation: and when I
pressed him at Sir Joseph Banks's meeting, to mention his intended vse of the
particulars which Mr. Smith had, at his instance, requested ot me to assist in
drawing up, he declined a direct answer, but insinuated, that it was fo' defendmg
Dr. K>dJ, his very particular Friend, from aspersions that had been cast on him,
regarding Mr. Smith ! I gave a firm, and I trust suitable answer, which may
perhaps at some time appear in your pages, and the matter dropped.
    The above particulars may somewhat account, why, throughout the Critique
in question, Doctor Kidd is so ostensibly brought forwards and as it were
pitted agaiu»t p iir Mr. Smitu ; why so many of the quotations, and references to
Authors, are artfully made to bear (many of them most unfairly, as I shall per
haps slate, when leisure permits) against Mr. Smith's claims, to almost any ori
ginality or merit; but the two last paragraphs explain the whole, and show, al
though less openly than Dr. K went about it, that the object in view has been
                                                                        " men of Uht-
(as Mr. Smith from the first suspected) to push into notice, those
ralit'j and scientific acquirements,"' and their Works, who are, as the Reviewer
tells us, engaged in
                      '•
                         correcting the investigations" of " an Englishman, untaught
and unaisisttd? (see your vol. xlv. p. 296 Note): the Reviewer with grea tcom-
placeucy concludes, by complimenting the persons of" intelligence and liberality"
                                                                              alluded

                           Oflhe Structure of the Earth.                           \S5
commensurate with its demerits, in your xlvth volume, p. 338) in
order to point out, that although he professed (but untruly) to
review, and pass as it were his academical judgement, on all that
had previously been written on the structure of the Earth, he
never quotes or alludes to this paper of Mr. Michell's; not eveu
in his chapter " on Volcanos and Earthquakes."
   bo in like manner, Mr. M. has received entire neglect from
a London Professor, who made the history
                                              of Geological labours
and discoveries, the subject of a Lecture, introductory to a Course
 alluded to, on the " elevated place," their Names are hereafter to occupy in the
 page of fame !
     What the character of that fame may be I will not inquire, which attaches to
 the having announced (in the name of the" learned Body" mentioned by the
.Reviewer) at the critical moment, after Mr. Smith had, through 12 years or
 more, been prevented from putting his Map to press, by no M^p-seller seeing
 a prospect,  through " the unf'ashionab'eness of the mode, ill which he had taken
 up and treated the subject," of their being remunerated, for engraving, colour
 ing, furnishing all the learned Universities, &c. grata, and advertising his Map;
 and to i he having actually followed up this announcement, by putting into the
 Engraver's hands, the pretended " correct ert Map" of which now the Reviewer
  so complacently speaks (see vol. xlv. p. 337 ) months before the trtginut Map could
 begot out by Mr. Cary : and through which new mode of proceeding in search
 of fame, or something else, it has occurred, and there is too much reason to
 perceive exu'tation in the Parties at      that Mr. Smith and Mr. Cary, remain
                                            it,                                       al
 most wholly ur.reuiirded fur their labour*       /
     Speaking of the Edinburgh Review, brings me to mention, that there are now
 two rival Magazines, publishing monthly in that city, the new oropposition one,
 of which, is said (as is  indeed pretty evident to any one) to have its scientific de
 partment edited by    a  certain proiessor of " Geognosy :" there   is  also published
 in London the Monthly Annals, of another 11Geognost           :"to the Editors of these
 two Geognostic Works (many of whose peculiar Readers, mighi fairly be sup
 posed to have scarcely seen the name of Mr. Smith mentioned           were sent in  the
 usual way, the very first manuscript copies of " Mr. Smith's Claims" (see vol. li.
                                                                    )
 p. 174 to 180 which were any how circulated, with         a  respectful request from
 me, that they might have insertion, as liberal act of literary justice to Mr. Smitlu
                                             a
 A printed Copy was also forwarded, as soon as possible, to the Old Edinburgh Ma
 gazine; but, neither the Editor of the old or of the new rvuiiliurgh Magazines
 has condescended to give     it  insertion    and notwithstanding,
                                                  !:                   that the opposi
 tion Editor had, in   a   number almost immediately preceding, amongst the lite
 rary news (and apparently from his own pen) inserted          avaunting kind of chal
 lenge to Mr Smith and myself      by name, to make good or renounce, in his Work,
 the claim, which  a   certain Scotch Geognost had {unasked) repeatedly put in, in
 our behalfs, as being rival discoverers of " the idea of formations," with the idot
lizcd Werner!
    The London Geognostic Annalists in the same foreign interest, raised at
firsta cavil, at the " Statement," not coming direct from Mr. Smith, (although
purporting to come from hi,- friends,) objecting in       to to the Notes attached
                                                           (
to it: and when afterwards, Mr. Smith on his return to Town, attempted
to satisfy these Qualms, by approving of the "Statement" under his hand,
and requesting its insertion, protiaed the N"tes u-e-e sjfeed to a>compavy it:
these Editors, however, in pretending to comply, in their '- introductory para
graph," having first {untruly) asserted, that all the N >tes, referred merely to the
Philosophical Magazine, they proceeded, amongst other wanton mutilations, to
strike out the very material Note (vol. li.  179), that showed Mr. Smith's
                                                       p
mme and the object of his labours, had found  commendatory mention, in the
                                                       a
Transactions of the Wyil Society        {

1 Srj   Conjectures concerning the Cause, and Observations
at the Royal Institution, and has in the last year published the
same in an 8vo volume.         The conduct of the gentleman now
alluded to, has even been still worse towards my friend Mr.
Smith, whose Geological Map has been in the Institution Li
brary since its publication, and during the delivery of several of
the Lectures alluded to, was actually hung up at the lack of the
Lecturer, and made the diagram of his local descriptions of
English Mineralogy and Geology; and yet, in two volumes which
this " learned Professor" has since put forth, in 1S16 and 1S17,
detailing the Geological facts of England, not the least mention
or allusion is made to Mr. Smith or his labours, through the last
2S years ! !
    If no one else can be found to stand forward, and condemn
with just severity, such gross literary injustice, as is displayed
in the instances above alluded to, I am the person who will fear
lessly do so, as long as your work remains, as heretofore, the
impartial vehicle of scientific communication ; and I am, sir,
                                   Your obedient servant,
Howland-strcct, Aug. 16, 1818.                 John FarEY Sell.
 Conjectures concerning the Cause, and Observations upon the
   Phcenomena, of Earthquakes;          particularly of that great
   Earthquake of    the first of November    1755, which proved so
  fatal   to the City of Lisbon,    and  whose  Effects were felt as
  far Africa,
       as         and   more or less throughout almost all Europe;
   by the Rev. John Michell, M.A. Fellow of Queen's College,
   Cambridge.    [From the Philosoph. Transactions*.]
                               Introduclion.
    Art. I.   It
               has been the general opinion of philosophers, that
earthquakes owe their origin to some sudden explosion in the
internal parts of the earth. This opinion is very agreeable to the
phaenomena, which seem plainly to point out something of that
kind. The conjectures, however, concerning the cause of such
an explosion, have not been yet, I think, sufficiently supported by
facts; nor have the more particular effects, which will arise from
it, been traced out     ;and the connexion of them with the phse-
nomena explained.       To do this,    is the intent of the following
pages and this we are now the better enabled to do, as the late
        ;
dreadful earthquake of the 1st of November 1755 supplies us
with more facts    f,and those better related, than any other earth
quake of which we have an account.                                ^ m
                                                                   2.  hat
                                                                        1
  * Read Feb. 28 March
                   ;          6,
                              13, 20, 27, 1760.
 t   Many of these facts are collected together   the xlixth volume of the
                                                 in
Philosophical Transactions.   The same are also to be found, with souk; ad
                                                                   ditional

                    upon (he Phenomena,     of Earthquakes.                   18/
   2. That these concussions should owe their origin to some
thing in the air, as it has sometimes been imagined, seems verv
illto correspond with the phaenomena.    This,   apprehend, will  I
sufficiently appear, as those phaenomena are hereafter recounted                 ;
nor does there appear to be any such certain and regular con
nexion between earthquakes and the state of the air, when they
happen, as       supposed
                    is               by
                               those who hold this opinion.                 It   is
said, for instance, that earthquakes always happen in calm stilt
weather     but that this  not always so, may be seen in an account
                                is
of the earthquakes in Sicily of 1693*, where, we are told, " the
           :
south winds have blown very much, which still have been im
petuous      the most sensible earthquakes, and the like has hap
               in
pened at other times."
   3. Other examples to the same purpose we have in an account
of the earthquakes that happened in New England in 1727 and
 1728; the author of which says, that he could neither observe
any connexion between the weather and the earthquakes, nor
any prognostic of them       for that they happened alike in all
                                 ;
kinds of weather, at all times of the tides, and at all times of the
moon      f.
ditional ones,     " The History and Philosophy of Earthquakes,"
                    in                                                  work
                                                                       (a
well worth 'the perusal of those who are desirous of being acquainted with
this subject).  The author of     has given us, besides the aforesaid facts,
                                     it
a very judicious abridgement of ten of the most considerable writers upon
the subject.    Ihave taken the greatest part of ray authorities either from
this author, or the Philosophical Transactions, that those who would wish
to examine them may have an 'Opportunity of doing           the more easily
                                                                  it             :
some things only, which were not to be met with        these, and which yet
                                                             in
were necessary to my purpose,     have been obliged to seek for elsewhere.
                                     I
   * See Philos. Trans. No. 207; or vol.     p. 408. — Low thorp's Abridge
                                            ii.
ment.'
 t   See Philos. Trans. No. 409; or vol. vi. part ii.   202. — Eames's Abridge
                                                        p.
ment.— To these authorities we may add the opinion of Mons. Bertrand,
who expresses himself, upon this occasion, in the following manner: "Ari-             >
stotle, Pliny, and Seneca, tell us, that earthquakes are preceded      by
                                                                       a   calm
and serene air. This      is,
                            indeed, often the case, but not always.    I   don't
know, upon an examination of the whole,     if    there are not as many excep
 tions to this rule, as examples that confirm it. Some authors again have
thought, that they might look on dark sky, lightnings, and sudden storms,
                                      a
as the forerunners of earthquakes." Then relating some instances of shocks
that happened        calm and serene weather, he adds, " On the other hand,
                    in
it  appears,  from  the examples which we have before related, that many
earthquakes have happened at the time of great rains, violent winds, and
with  a  cloudy sky; so that one cannot find any certain prognostic of them
 in the state of the atmosphere." — See Memoires Historiques et Physiques
sur les Trembkmens de Terre, par Mons. Bertrand,            la Hoge 1757.
                                                             &              This
author, in these sensible memoirs, has obliged the public with a circum
stantial account of all the facts he could collect, relating to the earthquakes
of Switzerland, or those of other places that seemed to be connected with
them. The whole seems to be done with care and fidelity, and without the
least attachment to any particular system.     -
                                                                         4.    If,

"]   SS       Conjectures concerning the Cause, and Observations
     4.       If,
            however,       should still be supposed, notwithstanding
                               it
 these instances to the contrary, that there            some general con
                                                           is
 nexion between earthquakes and the weather, at the time when
 they happen, yet, surely,          itfar more probable, that the air
                                         is
 should be affected            by
                            the causes of earthquakes, than that the
 earth should be affected in so extraordinary           manner, and to so
                                                           a
 great     depth;
              a      and  that  this, and  all  the   other  circumstances
 attending   these   motion*,  should   be owing   to some  cause   residing
  in the air,
     5. Let us then, rejecting this hypothesis, suppose that earth
 quakes have their origin under ground, and we need not go far
 in search of cause, whose real existence in nature we have cer
                           a
  tain evidence of, and which         capable of producing all the ap
                                         is
  pearances   of  these  extraordinary motions.       The cause     mean  I        is
 subterraneous fires. These fires,                if
                                                 large quantity
                                                       a          of  water
 should be let out upon them suddenly, may produce                  vapour,
                                                                          a
  whose quantity and elastic force may be fully sufficient for that
 purpose.     The principal facts, from which           would prove that
                                                           I
 these fires are the real cause of earthquakes, are as follow:
     Section . — 6. First, The same places are subject to returns
                       I
       of earthquakes, not only at small intervals for some time
       after any considerable one has happened, but also at greater
       mtervals of some ages.
      7.Both these facts sufficiently appear, from the accounts we
 have of earthquakes.         The tremblings and shocks of the earth
 at Jamaica in 1692*, at Sicily in 1693*, and at Lisbon in
 1"55*, were repeated sometimes at larger, and sometimes at
 smaller intervals, for several months.        The same thing has been
 observed      all    in
                   other very violent earthquakes.        At Lirnaf, from
 the 28th October 1746 to the 24th February 1747 (the time
 when the account of them was sent from thence), there had been
numbered no less than 45 shocks, many of them little inferior'
                                     1
 to the first great one which destroyed that city.
     8. The returns of earthquakes also, in the same places, at
 larger distances of time, are confirmed                   by
                                                       all history.    Con-
 vtantinople, and many parts of Asia Minor, have suffered                          by
them, in many different ages: Sicily has been subject to them,
»s far back as the remains even of fabulous history can inform
ns of: Lisbon did not feel the effects of them for the first time
in   1755    Jamaica has frequently been troubled with them, since
                  :
the English first settled there and the Spaniards, who were
                                              ;
there before, used to build their houses of wood, and only one
story high, for fear of them: Lirnaf, Callao, and the parts ad-
          "
              See the accounts of these    the Philos. Trans.
                                          in
              See Antonio d'Ullita's Voyage to Peru, purl     book
                                                            ii.      i.   ch. 7.
      I t     bee the place above 'juottd.
                                                                              jucent,

          •
                tipon'the Phenomena,     of Earthquakes.               IS!7
jacent, were almost totally destroyed by. them twice, within the
 compass of about sixty years, scarce any building being left
standing, and the latter being both times overflowed by the sen ;
nor were these the only instances of the like kind which have
happened there: for, from the year 15S2 to 1746, they have had
no less than sixteen very violent earthquakes, besides an infinity
of less considerable ones; and the Spaniards, at their first settling
there, were told by the old inhabitants, when they saw them
building high houses, that they were building their own sepul
chres*.
   9. Secondly, Those places that are in the neighbourhood of
      burning mountains, are always subject to frequent earth
      quakes ; and the eruptions of those mountains, when vio^
       lent, are generally attended with them.
    10. Asia Minor and Constantinople may be looked upon as M>
the neighbourhood of Santerini. The countries also aboutyEtnaf,
Vesuvius, Mount Hseela, &c. afford us sufficient proofs to the
same purpose.        But, of all the places in the known world, I
suppose, no countries are so subject to earthquakes, as Peru %,
Chili, and all the western parts of South America ; nor is there
auy country in the known world so full of volcanos : for, through-*
put all that long range of mountains, known by the name of the
Andes, from 45 degrees south latitude to several degrees north
of the line, as also throughout all Mexico, being about 5000
miles in extent, there is a continued chain of them§.
    1 1. Thirdly, The motion of the earth in earthquakes is partly
        tremulous, and partly propagated by waves, which succeed
        one another sometimes at larger and sometimes at smaller
        distances; and this latter motion is generally propagated
        much further than the former.
    12. The former part of this proposition wants no confirmation:
 for the proof of the latter, viz. the wave-like motion of the earth,
 we may appeal to many accounts of earthquakes: it was \ery
 remarkable in the two which happened at Jamaica in 1687-8 |j
 and 1692     |j. In an account of the former,    itsaid, that
                                                       is       gen-
                                                                   a
  *   What here said, taken from d'Ulloa's Voyage to Peru, the History
              is         i9
 and Philosophy of Earthquakes, the Philos, Trans. &c, where many more
 examples, to the same purpose, are to be met with. See also Memoires tnr
 les Tremblemens tie Terre
                         ;   in which are mentioned above 130 repetition*
 of earthquakes that have happened within the compass of" 960 years ha
 Switzerland.
  t   See many instances of this in vol.ii.of Lowthorp's Abr. of the Philos.
 Trans.
   t  Mons. Boueuer says, that scarce a week pusses without earthquakes
 in some part of Peru. — See Hist, of Earthq. p. 205.
   §   See the Maps of these countries, Condaraine's Voyage down the Ma-
 ranon, Acosta's Nat. Hist, of the Indies, etc.
   11  See Phil. Trans. No. 209
                              ;         ii.
                                  or vol.  Lorttborp's Abridgement, p. 410.
                                                                    tieman

190       Conjectures concerning the Cause, and Observations
tleman    there saw the ground rise like the sea in a wave, as the
earthquake passed along, and that he could distinguish the ef
fects of      it,
              to some miles distance,       the motion of the tops of
                                                    by
the trees on the hills. Again, in an account of the latter,                          it   is
said, "the ground heaved and swelled, like rolling swelling sea,"
                                                         a
insomuch that people could hardly stand upon their legs            rea          by
 son of it.
    13. The same has been observed in the earthquakes of New*
England, where        has been very remarkable.
                     it                                      A
                                                     gentleman giving
an account of one, that happened there the 18th November
 1755, says, the earth rose          wave, which made the tops of the
                                         in    a
trees vibrate ten feet, and that he was forced to support himself,
to avoid falling, whilst       was passing.
                                it
    14.  The    same  also  was  observed at Lisbon          f,
                                                            the earth
                                                                  in
quake of the 1st November 1755, as may be plainly collected
from many of the accounts that have been published concerning
it, some of which affirm         expressly
                                     it     and this wave-like motion
                                                   :
 was propagated to far greater distances than the other tremulous
one, being perceived          the motion of waters, and the hanging
                                by
branches     in  churches, through all Germany, amongst the Alps,
 in Denmark, Sweden, Norway, and all over the British isles.
    15. Fourthly,         It observed in places which are subject to
                               is
      frequent earthquakes, that they generally come to one and
      the same place, from the same point of the compass.          may          I
      add also, that the velocity with which they proceed (as far
      as one can collect      from the accounts of them)
                                it                           the same; is
      but the velocity of the earthquakes of different countries                          is
      very different.
    16. Thus all the shocks that succeeded the first great one at
Lisbon in 1755, as well as the first itself, came from the north
west     J. This     asserted
                    is             the person who says he was about
                                          by
writing history
              a      of the earthquakes there: all the other accounts
atso confirm the same thing; for what some say, that they came
from the north, and others, that they came from the west, can
not be looked on as any reasonable objection to this, but rather
the contrary.       The velocity also, with which they were all pro-
     *
     See Pliilos. Trans, vol.     p.1.he.  1,
f   See tlie accounts collected together,   the xhxth volume of thePhilos.
                                                   in
Trans., or     Hist, and Pliilos. of Earthq.
               in                         and particularly p. 315, where                  it
is said, " A most dreadful earthquake shook, by short but >j:iick vibrations,
ihe foundations of all Lisbon; then, with   scarcely perceptible pause, the
                                                   a
nature of the motion changed, and every building was tossed like     waggon a
driven violently over rough stones, which laid in ruins almost every house,
( iiurcli, &c."                                                      .
    For the wave-like motion at Oporto, see Phil. Trans, vol. xlix. p. 413                :
for the same at Gibraltar, see Hist, and Philos. of Earthq.   322.p.
    t See Philos. Trans, vol. xlix.  410.  p.
                                                                            pagated,

                        upon 4 he Phenomena,               of Earthquakes.               191
pagated, was the same, being at least equal to that of sound ;
for they all followed immediately after the noise that preceded'
them*, or rather the noise and the earthquake came together;
and this velocity agrees very well with the intervals between the
time when the first shock was felt at Lisbon, and the time when
it was felt at other distant places, from the comparison of which
it seems to have travelled at the rate of more than twenty miles
per minute f.
    17. An historical account of the earthquakes which have hap
pened in New England J, says, that, of five considerable ones,
three are known to have come from the same point of the com
pass, viz. the north-west: it is uncertain from what point the
other two came, but it is supposed that they came from the
same with the former.        The velocity § of these has been much
less than that of the Lisbon earthquakes:       this appears from the
interval between the preceding noise, and the shock, as well a9
from the wave-like motion before mentioned.
    IS. All the greater earthquakes^ that have been felt at Ja
maica       seem,
               ||,    the accounts given of them, to have come from
                               by
the sea, and, passing                  by
                              Port-Royal, to have gone northwards.
The velocity of these also was far short of the velocity of the
Lisbon earthquakes.
    19. The earthquake of London %t on the 8th of March 1750,
was supposed to move from east to west.            have been credibly
                                                                   I
informed, that the same thing happened in slight shock which           a
was felt there in the last century, as the person who told me
this had an opportunity of observing; for, being,         accident, in       by
a scalemaker's shop at the time when             happened, he -found
                                                                  it
that   all the scales  vibrated from east to west.
    20. All the shocks that have been lately felt at Brigue in
Valais have likewise come from the same point of the compass,
 viz. the south**.
    21 . Fifthly, The great Lisbon earthquake has been succeeded
           by
           several local ones since, the exteat of which has been
       much less.
     *
     See             Philos. Trans,   vol. xlix.      p. 414;  or Hist, and Philos. of Eartliq.
p. 315.                   See art. 97.
                          t                                X See Philos. Trans, vol.1. p. 9.
  §       As    in some earthquakes the              velocity with which they are propagated
fa much less than in othcrs^it                       isevident that they can   by no means be
owing to any cause residing     the air: for any shock communicated to the
                                            in
air must necessarily move with velocity neither greater nor less than tbcc
                                                 a
of sounds; that     at the rate of about thirteen milts per minute.
                              is,
     See the accounts of them in Philos. Trans. No. 209; or vol. ii. — Lo-.v-
     ||
thorp's Abr.    410, &c. p.
     See Hist, and Philos. of Earthq. p. 350; or Philos. Trans, vol. x.—
MartyVs Abr. Meteorology, passim.
   ** See Philos. Trans, vol. xlix.    620. The same has been observed at
                                                      p.
Smyrna also, see Philos. Tratrs. No. 495; or Martyn's Abr. vol. x. p. 526.
                                                                                    22. Such

192    Conjectures concerning the Cause, ami Observations
   22. Such were the earthquakes in Switzerland ; those on the
borders of France and Germany; those in Barbary, &c.*
   Section II. — 23. How well soever these facts may agree with
the supposition before laid down, That subterraneous fires are
the cause of earthquakes, one doubt, however, may perhaps re
main;- viz. how it is possible that fires should subsist, which have:
no. communication with: the outward air?         In .answer to this, I,
might allege    the example   of  green plants, which take fire by
fermentation, when laid together in heaps; where the admission
of the outward air is so far from being necessary, that it will ef
fectually prevent their doing so.     But, to pass by this, we have
many   instances  more  immediately   to the purpose.
   24. It can hardly be supposed, that the fires of the generality
of volcanos receive any supply of fresh air (for this must effec
tually be prevented by that vapour, which is continually rushing
out at all their vents), and yet they subsist, and frequently even:
increase, for many ages.     Now, these are (ires of the very same,
kind with those which I suppose to be the cause of earthquakes.
Other facts, still more expressly to the purpose, are as follow:
   25. In the earthquake of the 1st of November 17~>5, we are
told that both smoke and light flames were seen on the. coast
of Portugal, near Colares ; and that, upon occasion of some of
the succeeding shocks, a slight smell of sulphur was perceived to
accompany a
                " fog, which came from the sea, from the same-
quarter whence the smoke appeared f."
   26. In an account of an earthquake in New England, it is
said, that at Newbury, forty miles from Boston, the earth opened
and threw up several cart loads of sand and ashes ; and that the
sand was also slightly impregnated with sulphur, emitting a blue
flame when laid on burning coals J.
   27- One of the relatersof the earthquake in Jamaica in 1692'
has these words:
                    " In Port-Royal, and in many places all over
the island, much sulphureous combustible matter hath been
found (supposed to have been thrown out upon the opening of
the earth), which, upon the first touch of fire, would flame and
burn like a candle.             . ,
   28. " St. Christopher's was heretofore much troubled with
earthquakes, which, upon the eruption thereof a great mountain
of combustible matter, which still continues, wholly ceased, and
have never been felt there since §."
   29. Again, we are told, that, on the 20th November 1720,
  * See the accounts of these collected     together in Philos. Trans, vol. xli.xj
or ip the Hist, and Philos. of Earthq.
  t See Philos. Trans, vol. xlix. p. 414,   &c.
   J See Philos. Trans. No. 40P ; or vol.   vi. part ii. 201. — Eames's Abr.
                                                           p.
 §   Sec Philos. Trans. No. 209; or vol,    ii.p, 418.— Lovytliorp's Abr.      .      ..
                                                                    '
                                                                        a   burning

                     upon the Phenomena         of Earthquakes.              193
a burning island * was raised out of the sea, near Tercera, one
of the Azores, at which place several houses were shaken down
by an earthquake which attended the eruption of it.                     This
island was about three leagues in diameter, and nearly round ;
from whence it is manifest, that the quantity of pumice stones
and melted matter, which must have been requisite to form it',
was amazingly great : in all probability it must have far exceeded
all that has been thrown out of .'Etna and Vesuvius together,
within the last two thousand years. This may serve to satisfy
us, that the fire which occasioned all this must have subsisted
for many years, not to say ages, and this without any communi
cation with the external air. It is worth observing, that several
instances of this kind have happened amongst the Azoresf. There
are, besides many marks of subterraneous fires about these islands,
several places sending up smoke or flames.                These islands are
also subject to violent and frequent earthquakes.                          •'
    30. We have more instances to the same purpose, near the
island of Santerini in the Archipelago, where there have been
several little islands raised out of the sea by a submarine volcano.
The eruption of one of these in the year 1708, with all the cir
cumstances that attended            it,
                                     we have     very good account of in
                                                    a
the Philosophical Transactions            J.  was raised in
                                               It               place where
                                                                 a
the sea had been formerly 100 fathoms deep, and was attended
with earthquakes before        itshowed itself above water, as well as
after.     It   isreported, that  the island of Santerini itself was ori
ginally raised out of the sea in the same manner                but, be that
                                                                ;
as it  will, we have certain accounts of new islands raised there,
or additions made to the old ones, from lime to time, for above
 1900 years backwards, and there have always been earthquakes
at the time of these eruptions.
    31. Another example of the same kind happened at Manila                    §,
one of the Philippine islands, in the year 1750.               This also was
attended with violent earthquakes, to which that island, as well
as the rest of the Philippines,           very much subject.
                                          is
    32. We may add to these, the many instances of vast. quan
tities of pumice stones        ||which have been sometimes found
floating upon      the sea, at  so  great a distance from the shore, as
well as from any known volcano, that there can be little doubt
of their being thrown up            by
                                    fires subsisting under the bottom of
 the ocean.'
    * See Pliilos. Trans No. 372; or vol. vi. part ii. p. 203. — Eames's Abr.
 t    See Hist, and Philos. of Earthquakes, under the titles Azores, Islands
raised, &c.
      Sec No. 314, 317, and 332; or vol. v. p.        196.— Jones's Abr.
                                                        ii.
 t                                                      p.
  $    See Philos. Trans, vol. xlix. p. 459.
  ||   See Philos. Trans. No. 372; or vol. vi.      part ii. p. 204, and No. 402;
or vol. vii. part ii. p. 43. — Eames's Abr.
  Vol. 52. No. 245. Sept. 18)8.                          N            33. From

 194   Conjectures concerning the Cause, (Sc.           of Earthquukes.
    33. From these instances, we may, with great probability,
conclude, that the fires of volcanos produce earthquakes : I do
 not, however, suppose, that the earthquakes, which are frequently
 felt in the neighbourhood of volcanos, are owing to the fires of
 those volcanos themselves; for volcanos, giving passage to the
vapours that are there formed, should rather prevent them, as in
 the instance at St. Christopher's, before mentioned.
     34. We also meet with frequent instances confirming the same
 thing amongst the Andes.            Antonio d'Ulloa (speaking of what
 happens amongst these mountains) says, "Experience shows us,
 that, upon the fresh breaking out of any volcano, it occasions so
 violent a shock to the earth, that all the villages which are near
 it are overthrown and destroyed, as it happened in the case of
the mountain Carguayraso*.            This shock, which we may, without
the least impropriety, call an earthquake, is seldom found to ac
 company the eruptions, after an opening is once made ; or, if
some small trembling is perceived, it is very iuconsiderable ; so
 that, after the volcano has once found a vent, the shocks cease,
 notwithstanding the matter of it continues to be on fire."                The
greater earthquakes, therefore, seem rather to be occasioned by'
 other fires, that lie deeper in the same tract of country; and the
 eruptions of volcanos, which happen at the same time with earth
quakes, may, with more probability, be ascribed to those earth
 quakes, than the earthquakes to the eruptions — whenever, at
least, the earthquakes are of any considerable extent. If this don't
 appear sufficiently manifest at present, it will, perhaps, be better
understood, by applying to the present purpose, what will be said
 hereafter concerning local earthquakes.
     Section III. — 35. It may be asked, perhaps, why we should
suppose, that several subterraneous fires exist in the neighbour
hood of volcanos?            In evidence of this, we have frequent in
stances of new volcanos breaking out in the neighbourhood of old
ones : Carguayraso, just mentioned, may supply us with one ex
ample to this purpose ; and in the niglit of the 28th of October
    * It does not
                    appear altogether certain, from the expression made use
of in the French translation (from whence       I have taken this), that Car
guayraso might not have been a volcmio in former times, which is asserted
 to have been the case by Mons. Condainine.        It is possible also, that the
 same may be true of those four mentioned in the next article; and, indeed,
it is difficult to know it to be otherwise, in any instance, among the Andes,
where the volcanos are generally found at inaccessible heights.          But al
lowing that all these were only old volcanos, which broke out afresh, yet
 they will serve at least to swell the number of them in the same neighbour
hood, as well as to show us, that there may, very probably, be many more,
which lie hid: for these showed no marks of their existence, till, by their
eruption, they melted a vast quantity of snow, w ith which they were be
fore eovjred, and which] being reduced to water, did great damage, by
oveffosinj the country round about.                                            ..,

                   Experiments on Muriatic Acid Gas.
  1/46, in which Lima and Callao were destroyed, no less than
  four new ones burst forth in the adjacent mountains*.
     36. To the same purpose, we may allege the instances of matiy
  volcanos lying together in the same tract of country: as for ex
  ample, the many places,
                                   " not so few as forty," amongst the
  Azores, which either do now or have formerly sent forth smok«
  and flames ; the many volcanos also amongst the Andes, already
 mentioned: thus iEtna, Strombolo, and Vesuvius, I may add
 Solfatara too, are all in the same neighbourhood : and Mons. Con-
 damine says, he has traced lavast, exactly like those of Vesuvius,
 all the way from Florence to Naples.           In Iceland  J also, we have,
 besides Hscla, not only several other volcanos, but also a great
 number of places, that send up sulphureous vapours.                  But the
 examples of this kind are so frequent, that there are few instances
 to be produced of single volcanos, without evident marks, either
 that there have been others formerly in their neighbourhood, or
 that there are, at present, subterraneous Ares near them.
                               [To  be continued.]
 XXIX.      Experiments on Muriatic Acid Qas, with Observations
     on its Chemical Constitution, and on some other Subjects of
     Chemical Theory.         By John Murray, M.D. F.R.S. E.
     Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh.
                            [Continued from p.    1 12.]
 Another       form of experiment occurred to me still more direct and
 simple, that of transmitting muriatic acid in its gaseous form over
 ignited metals. If water be obtaiued in this experiment, it is a
result which would prove subversive of the new doctrine ; for
 muriatic acid gas is held to be the real acid, free from water,
and the only change which can happen, is that of the metal de
composing the acid attracting its chlorine and liberating its hy
drogen.      And the experiment is further free from the only re
source which remained to the advoeates of that doctrine, in the
 case of water being obtained from muriate of ammonia, that ft
might be derived from the decomposition of the elements of am
monia, regarding it as an alkali containing oxygen.                  If water
were really obtained from the combination of muriatic acid and
ammoniacal gases, it would rather indicate, it was said, the de-
    * See d'Ulloa's Voyage to Peru, part ii. book i. chap. 7.
    t See Phil. Trans, vol. xlix. p. 614. All these lavas, as well as the vol
canos just mentioned, lie in a continued line. The same thing holds good
in the volcanos of the Andes also.     This is a fact I must desire the reader
to attend to, as it serves to confirm a very material doctrine, which I shall
have occasion to mention hereafter.      See art. 44, 46, and 46.
    J See Horrebow's Natural Historv of Iceland.
                                      N 2                       composition

196             Experiments on Muriatic Acid Gas,
composition of nitrogen than the existence of water as a consti
tuent of muriatic acid.      No weight, I believe, is due to such an
                    if
                                                                         it,
assumption;    but     any importance were attached to                 pre
                                                                         it    is
cluded  if  water is obtained from the action of     metals   on  muriatic
acid gas.
 I    have executed the experiment in several forms             and in all
                                                                         ;
with a more or less satisfactory result.
    One hundred grains of iron filings, clean and dry, were strewed
for length of five or six inches,
   a                                      glass tube which was placed
                                              in
                                               a
in   an iron case, across    small furnace, so as to admit of being
                             a
raised to   a red heat.     This tube, of about two feet in length,
was connected with       a  wide tube eight inches long, containing
dry and warm muriate of lime          and this was further connected,
                                          ;
 at its other extremity, with       retort affording muriatic acid gas,
                                      a
 from  a  mixture of supersulphate of potash and muriate of soda.
 The open extremity of the long tube, dipped                        by
                                                            slight curva
                                                                     a
 ture  in  quicksilver.   On the iron being     raised  to ignition,    and
 the transmission of the acid gas being conducted slowly,           elastic
 fluid escaped from the extremity of the tube, which was found
 to be hydrogen; and though no trace of moisture appeared in tlie
 anterior part of the tube,       immediately condensed in that part
                                 it
 which was cold, beyond the iron filings. This accumulated in glo
 bules, and at length ran into small portion in the bottom
                                      a                                  the    ;
 sides were bedewed for      a length of six inches,   and     thin film a of
moisture appeared beyond, nearly its whole length.
    By the muriatic acid, gas being extricated in the preceding
experiment from nearly dry materials, and                 its previous trans
                                                               by
mission over an extensive surface of loose muriate of lime,                was it
inferred,    thatit   would   be  free  from    hygrometric      vapour    and ;
that  it  held no moisture, was apparent           from   no  trace  of        it
                                                                            ap-i
pearing in the anterior portion of the tube.               To  obviate,   how
ever, entirely, any supposed fallacy from this source, the experi
ment was performed in the following manner.                     One hundred
grains    of clean  and  perfectly dry  iron  filings  were   put  into a long
glass tube,    which    was  placed,  as  before,   across      smallafurnace.
Muriatic acid gas had been kept              contact
                                               in        with  dry  muriate   of
lime for three days, in ajar with          stopcock adapted
                                              a                    to it.  Tim
was connected,
                    by
                    a      short tube with         caoutchouc collar, with
                                                       a
the tube containing the iron filings          and  ;   little of the muriatic
                                                           a
acid gas being passed through the tube to expel the air, the tem
perature was raised to ignition. The slow transmission of the gas•
was continued      by   the pressure of the mercury in the quicksilver
trough, and fresh quantities, which had been equally with the:
other exposed to muriate of lime, were added, as was necessary.
Water almost immediately appeared in the tube beyond the iron
filing'!,  itcollected  in  spherules, and continued to accumulate as

             with Observations on its Chemical Constitution.         1S7
    the gas continued to be transmitted for a length of about seven
    inches.   A portion of the gas which escaped from the extremity
    was clouded, and deposited a film of moisture on the sides of the
   jar in whicli it was received over quicksilver.      The quantity of
   gas transmitted amounted to about thirty-five cubic inches.
        There are some difficulties in conducting the experiment in
   the manner now described, from the consolidation of the metal
   lic matter, and the volatilization of the product.     It was also of
   some importance to vary the experiment.       I therefore performed
   it in another mode.      Metals scarcely act on muriatic acid gas
   at natural temperatures; but from such a degree of heat as could
   be applied by a small lamp, both iron and zinc were acted on ;
   the gas suffered diminution of volume, hydrogen was formed,
  and a sensible production of moisture took place.        The simplest
  mode of exhibiting this, is to introduce iron or zinc filings, pre
  viously dry, and warm, into a retort fitted with a stopcock ; ex
  hausting it; then admitting dry muriatic acid gas ; and apply
  ing heat, by a small lamp, to the filings in the under part of the
  body of the retort.    Moisture soon appears at its curvature in
  small globules, and increases on successive applications of the
  heat with the admission of the requisite quantities of gas.
       To conduct the experiment, however, on a larger scale, I em
  ployed a different apparatus.     A tubulated retort, of the capacitv
 of twenty-five cubic inches, was connected with a jar, containing
 muriatic acid gas in contact with muriate of lime, on the shelf of
 the mercurial trough, by a tube bent twice at right angles, and
 fitted by its shorter leg with a collar of caoutchouc to a stop
 cock at the top of the jar, its longer leg passing into the tubu-
 lature of the retort, so as to terminate within an inch of its bot
 tom, and the joinings being rendered air-tight.         The retort is
 so placed, that heat can be applied by a lamp to the bottom^
 and its neck dips, by a short curved tube, under a jar filled with
quicksilver, which, bv the reverted position of the retort, may be
placed beside the other, on the shelf of the trough.      At the com
mencement of the experiment, the metallic filings, previously dry
and warm, having been put into the retort, the atmospheric air is
expelled by a moderate heat, and small portions of the muriatic
acid gas are admitted, until the retort is filled with the pure gas.
The stopcock is then closed, and heat is applied by a lamp to
the bottom of the retort, under a considerable pressure of mer-.
cury ; any small portion of gas, expelled at the extremity, being
received in the small jar. The heat can thus be successively
cautiously applied, and this, as the experiment proceeds, to a
greater extent, in consequence of the diminution of volume that
takes place.     Fresh quantities of muriatic acid gas are admitted
from time to time from the jar ; and the stopcock being closed
    °-
                                    N 3                          when

11*8            Experiments on Muriatic Acid Gas,
when the heat is applied, the hydrogen gas produced is expelled,
with any muriatic acid gas not acted on.
    In the principal experiment I employed, zinc filings were used
in preference to iron, from the consideration, that muriate of
zinc is less volatile than muriate of iron, and therefore would ad
mit of a higher heat being applied to expel i>ny water.           One
hundred grains of clean and dry zinc filings were introduced,
while warm, into the retort; the air was expelled, and muriatic
acid gas was admitted from the jar.         On applying heat to the
 zinc, the retort, which was before perfectly dry, was bedimmed
 with moisture at its curvature, and small spBerules collected at
 the top of the neck.       These increased in size, and extended
 further as the experiment advanced.       After a certain time, part
 of this disappeared in the interval of cooling, being absorbed by
 the deliquescent product ; hut when the heat was again applied,
 it was renewed, and this in increased quantity, until at length,
 at the end of four davs, during which heat had been frequently
 applied, the whole tube of the retort, seven inches in length, was
 studded with small globules of fluid.      When the heat had been
 raised high, a beautiful arborescent crystallization appeared in a
 thin film on the body of the retort, but no part of this reached
 the neck.    The retort was now detached; the gas it contained
 was withdrawn by a caoutchouc bottle ; a small receiver was
 adapted ; and a slight heat having been applied, to expel a little
 of the air, the joining was made close by cement. The receiver
 was surrounded with a freezing mixture, and heat was applied
 by a ehoffer to the retort, as far as Could be done without raising
 dense vapours.      Globules of liquid, perfectly limpid, collected
 pretty copiously   towards   the middle and lower part of the neck,
 and the receiver,   on  being removed from the freezing mixture,
 was covered internally with a film of moisture.            The glo
 bules in the neck of the retort were absorbed by a slip of bibu
 lous paper, and the quantity was found to amount to 1•2 gr.
 The receiver being dried carefully, and weighed, lost by the dis
 sipation of the moisture within, 0 4 grain.       Distilled water, in
 which the   bibulous   paper  was immersed,  was quite acid ; it gave
 no sensible turbidness on the addition of ammonia, or of carbo
 nate of soda, and held dissolved, therefore, merely pure muria
 tic acid.    The mass in the retort was of a gray colour, with
 metallic lustre, in loosely aggregated laminae, somewhat flexible.
 It weighed 1 14•8 grains. Adding to this increase of weight,
 which the zinc had gained, the weight of the water and the hy
 drogen gas expelled, it gives a consumption of muriatic acid gas
 of about 16-8 grains, equivalent to about 43 cubic inches. Sup
 posing the weight of water to be doubled, or nearly so, by sa
 turation with muriatic acid, this gives the product of water in

            with Observations      on  its Chemical Constitution.            t&&
 the experiment, as equal to nearly one grain ; or about one-
 fifth of the whole quantity of combined water, which muriatic
 acid gas is calculated to contain *.
      In all the preceding experiments, water has been procured
 from muriatic acid gas.         It is obvious, that such a result cannot
 be accounted for on the hypothesis, that it is the real acid free
 from water, a compound merely of chlorine and hydrogen.                     On
 the opposite doctrine, as muriatic acid in its gaseous form is held
 to contain water, it may be supposed to afford a portion of it.
      It may be maintained, however, in this, as it was in the ex
 periment of obtiiining water from the muriate of ammonia by
 heat, that the water produced is derived from hygrometric va
 pour in the gas. To obviate this, it is sufficient to recur to the
 fact established by the experiments of Henry and Gay Lussae,
 that muriatic acid gas contains no hygrometric vapour ; and to
 the obvious result in the experiment, that no quantity that can
 be assumed, would be adequate to account for the quantity ac
 tually obtained.       The circumstances of the experiment, too, are
 such as to preclude any such supposition ; and this more pecu
 liarly so, than in the experiment of obtaining water from the
 muriate of ammonia by heat ; for, in the present case, the acid
 is alone employed, while in the other there is an additional equal
 volume of ammoniacal gas, which may be supposed to afford a
 double quantity of hygrometric vapour.             In the latter, both the
 gases are condensed into a solid product, and any hygrometric
 vapour may be supposed to be liberated ; but in the present ex
 periment, there remains the hydrogen gas, capable of containing
 hygrometric vapour, while the muriatie acid gas contains none;
      * The action of the metals on the muriatic acid gas taking place in the
  above experiments at a heat comparatively moderate, it occurred to me,
  that they might exert a similar action with no higher heat on the acid, in
  muriate of ammonia, and that this might afford an easy mode of exhibiting
  the results.  I  accordingly found, that on mixing different metals with sat
  ammoniac in powder, previously exposed to a subliming heat, and exposing
  the mixture to heat, by a lamp, so regulated as to be short of volatilization,
  the salt was decomposed, ammoniacal gas was expelled, and moisture con
  densed in the neck of the retort; covering a space of several inches with
  small globules, and at length running down. The melals     I employed were
  iron, zinc, tin, and lead ; 100, 150, or 200 grains of each metal, dry, and
  warm, being mixed with 100 grains of the salt, likewise newly heated. To
  obviate any fallacy from common sal ammoniac being employed, I repeated
  the experiment with the salt formed from the combination of its two con
  stituent gases, and obtained the same result. But although this affords an
  easy mode of exhibiting the production of water, it is not favourable to
. obtaining a perfect result, the heated ammoniacal gas carrying off a con
  siderable portion of the water deposited; and accordingly, the quantity,
  instead of increasing as the experiment proceeds, at length diminishes, and
  the ammoniacal gas deposits a portion of water in passing through mer-
  cary,or in being conveyed through a cold tube.
. . ,                                   N 4                                  and

200            Experiments on Muriatic Acid Gas,
 and the quantity of it thus transmitted over the humid surface,
 and expelled from the apparatus, must have carried off more va
 pour than the other, introduced at a lower temperature, could
 have conveyed.     These circumstances, independent of the quan
 tity of water deposited, precluded the supposition of any deposi
 tion from the condensation of hvgrometric vapour.         And there
 is nO'Other external source whence it can be derived.        In this
 respect nothing can be more satisfactory than the experiment
 with the zinc in the apparatus described     The muriatic acid gas
 rises from drv mercury in contact with muriate of lime, passes
 through a narrow bent tube, thirty inches in length, without
 exhibiting the slightest film of moisture, is received into the re
 tort perfectly drv; and when the action of the metal on it is ex
cited by heat, humidity immediately becomes apparent in the
 curvature of the retort, and this even while the gas is warm, and
of course capable of containing more water dissolved, than it
 could do in its former state; and the quantity increases as the
experiment proceeds.       No arrangement can be supposed better
adapted to prove,    that any deposition of water must be by sepa*
ration from its existence in the gas in a combined state.
    But though I consider this conclusion as established, there is
a considerable difficulty attending the theory of the experiment.
The result of water being obtained is actually different from what
is to be looked for, on the doctrine of muriatic acid gas contain
ing combined water; and even when the fact is established, the
theory of it is not easilv assigned.   On that doctrine, it must be
held that in the action of metals on muriatic acid gas, the metal
attracts oxygen from the water, the corresponding hydrogen is
evolved, and the oxide formed combines with the real acid. No
water, therefore, ought to be deposited, for none is abstracted
from the acid, but what is spent in the oxidation of the metal.
This will be apparent, by attending to the proportions in a sin
gle example, from the scale of chemical equivalents: 100 grains
of iron combine with 29 of oxygen, and in this state of oxidation
unite with 99 of real muriatic acid. This quantity of acid exists
in 131•8 of muriatic acid gas, combined with 32-8 of water;
and this portion of water contains 29 of oxygen with 3•8 of hy
drogen.    There is present, therefore, exactly the quantity of
oxygen which the metal requires to combine with the acid : and
no water remains above this.       Or it may be illustrated under
another point of view.      Muriatic acid gas is composed of oxy-
mu'riatic gas and hydrogen.      A metal acting on it must attract
the oxymuriatic acid, — that      the muriatic acid and oxygen, —
                                  is,
and liberate the hydrogen.      No water, therefore, ought to ap
pear, more, on this theory, than oil the other but the real pro
                                                ;
ducts in both must be-  a   dry muriate, or chloride., and hydrogen
                                                            '
                              -
                                                               ,gas.
                                  •

           with Observations t             on its Chemical    Constitution.                 201
gas.     In the action of ignited metals on muriate of ammonia, it
is equally evident, on the same principle, that no water ought to
be obtained.       How, then, is the production of water to be ac
counted for ?
   Though the water obtained in these experiments cannot be de
rived from hygrometric vapour in the gas, there is another view
under which it may be regarded as present, as an adventitious
ingredient.      The acid having a strong attraction to water, may
be supposed, in the processes in which it is usually prepared, to
retain a portion not strictly essential to its constitution as muri
atic acid gas, but stiil chemically combined, — that           combined        is,
with       with such an attraction as to be liberated only when
          it                                                                                 it
passes into other combinations, and          may be this portion which
                                                     it
is obtained       the action of metals on the gas the other portion,
                 in                                               ;
that essential to the acid, being sufficient to produce the requi
site oxidation of the metal.
   The question with regard to the existence of water in this
state, Gay Lussac and Thenard have already determined. From
an extensive series of experiments, they found reason to conclude,
that muriatic acid gas, in whatever mode              prepared,
                                                              it   is uni              is
formly the same.          From the quantity of hydrogen gas which
combines with oxymuriatie gas in its formation,            follows, that it
it contains 0-25 of water essential to its constitution.          But the
gas obtained         the usual processes, afforded, they found, exactly
                      by
0  25 of water, when transmitted over oxide of lead, or combined
with oxide of silver and the same compounds are formed, as
                                ;
by the action of oxymuriatie acid on silver and lead in their me
tallic state. They prepared muriatic acid gas,            heating fused by
muriate of silver with charcoal moderately calcined.                 con               It
tained just the tame quantity of water as muriatic acid obtained
from humid materials, as          afforded the same quantity of hydro
                                       it
gen   from   the action  of  potassium.     And instead of being capa
ble of receiving the smallest additional portion of water,          single             a
drop of water being introduced into three quarts of               did not        it,
disappear, nor even diminish, but, on the contrary, increased in
volume*.        These facts establish the conclusion, that muriatic
acid gas can receive no additional portion of water, but that
which       essential to
           is                 and hence preclude the solution of the
                                it,
difficulty under consideration                 by
                                        the opposite assumption.      And
it   isto be remarked, that should even such          portion of water
                                                                   a
exist in the gas,       cannot be supposed that the acid should cany
                           it
this with      into its saline combinations, and retain
                it                                             so, that        it            it
 should not be expelled         heat. by   cannot be supposed to exist,
                                                    It
 therefore, in muriate of ammonia thus heated, and of course can-
                                                                  ii.
                     *   Recherchcs    Vhysko-cldmiques,     t.   p.    133.
      j                                                                                     not

202             Experiments an Muriatic Aeid Gas,
not account for the water obtained by the action of the metals
on this salt.
   When it is proved, that no extrinsic water exists in muriatic
acid gas, there remain apparently only two modes on which the
production of water can be explained, — either, that the metal
may require less oxygen than is supposed in combining with the
acid, so that a portion of water will remain undecomposed, to
be deposited ; or, that the oxide attracts more real acid, so as
to liberate a larger proportion of water.          The first of these sup
positions is improbable, from the consideration of the law which
regulates the combination of metallic oxides with acids, — that
the quantity of acid is proportional to the quantity of oxygen, so
that if an oxide were formed in these cases, at a lower degree
of oxidation, it would only combine with a proportionally smaller
quantity of acid, and the quantity of water detached from the
combination would be the same.
    No improbability is attached to the second supposition ; and
:it has even some support from the consideration, that many me
tallic saline compounds form with an excess of acid, and that
it     difficult, with regard to
      is                         a     number of them, to procure them
neutral.      Metallic muriates, with excess of acid, seem in parti
cular to be established with facility.         And although an excess of
metal be present in the action exerted on muriatic acid gas, this
may not prevent the formation of a super-muriate, more espe
cially as the excess    is    in the metallic form, and exerts no direct
 action, therefore, on the real acid.
    To ascertain   if   a    super-muriate were formed in these cases,
 the product obtained from the action of the muriatic acid on the
 metal was raised to    a      heat as high as could be applied without
 volatilization, so that no loosely adhering acid might remain, and
 the air in the retort was repeatedly drawn out by         a   caoutchouc
 bottle.     The solution from the residue both of iron and zinc was
 very sensibly acid.       Some fallacy however attends this, from the
 circumstance, that the liquid state.     is    necessary to admit of the
 indications of acidity, and in adding water to produce this,             a
•change occurs in the state of combination,           in a number of the
 metallic muriates  a ;     super-muriate being formed, which remains
 in solution, and     a    sub-muriate being precipitated, so that the
 acidity   of   the entire   compound cannot justly be inferred from
 that   of  the  solution.   I    found, accordingly, that on adding wa
 ter to the product from the action of the acid gas on zinc, this
 change occurs;     a     little of a white precipitate being thrown
 down, while the liquor remnined acid.            But the fallacy can -be
 obviated, by adding only as much water as produces fluidity,
 without subverting the combination.            Portions, therefore, of the
 residue    were  exposed    ato    humid  atmosphere, until,  by  deliques-
;                                                                     ceuce,

          with Observations on its Chemical Constitution.          203
centre,   liquors  were formed transparent, without any precipita
tion   ; and these were strongly acid, reddening litmus paper when
it   was perfectly dry and warm.      I further found, that the pro
duct of the solution of zinc in liquid muriatic acid, when di
gested with an excess of metal, and evaporated to drvness, af
forded by deliquescence a liquor sensibly acid.          And in both
cases, even when the solid product was retained liquid by heat,
acidity was indicated by litmus paper.        Lastly, what is still less
liable to objection, the residue in the experiment of heating the
muriate of ammonia with the different metals, afforded similar
indications of acidity.                                  . . : -•-
     These results appear to establish the production of a super-
muriate in the action of these metals on the acid, and this ac
 counts for the appearance of a portion of water, since, supposing
 water to exist in muriatic acid gas, the quantity combined with
 that proportion of acid which would establish a neutral com
 pound, is the quantity required to oxidate the metal to form that
 compound; and if any additional portion of acid enter into union,
 the water of this must be liberated, or be at least capable of be
 ing expelled.
  - It was of importance,   in relation to this question, to ascertain
 the quantity of hydrogen obtained from a given quantity of mu
 riatic acid gas; for, if the whole water essential to the acid is
 decomposed by the action of the metal, half the volume of hy
 drogen ought to be obtained, — muriatic acid gas being composed
 of equal volumes of oxymuriatic gas and hydrogen gas.          I made
 this repeatedly the subject of experiment, by heating zinc and
 iron in muriatic acid gas.     There are difficulties in determining
  the proportion with perfect precision ; but the quantity of hy
  drogen always appeared to be less than the half; and on an
  average, about twelve measures were obtained, when thirty mea
 sures of the other had been consumed, a result conformable to
  the liberation of a portion of the combined water of the gas.
      Whether the production of water in these experiments is sa
  tisfactorily accounted for, on the cause now assigned, may be
  subject of further investiga ion.     In the sequel, I shall have to
  notice another principle, on which perhaps it may fall to be ex
  plained.     Whether accounted for or not, it is obvious, that the
  fact itself is not invalidated by the theoretical difficulty; and
  also, that in relation to the argument with regard to the nature
   of muriatic and oxymuriatic acids, it remains equally conclusive.
      In the doctrine of the undecomposed nature of chlorine, mu
   riatic acid gas contains neither water nor oxygen, and the metal
   employed certainly contains none.         These are the only sub
  stances brought into action, and it is impossible that water should
   be a product of their operation.         On the opposite doctrine,
                                                                   water

   204         On the Temperature   of the Mines in Cornwall.
   water is held to exist in muriatic acid gas to the amount of one-
   fourth of its weight ; and it is conceivable, that by some exer
   tion of affinities, a portion of it may be liberated.      If we were
   unable to explain the modus operandi, this would remain a diffi
   culty no doubt, but not, as in the opposite system, an impossible
    result.
       It is to be admitted, indeed, that in none of these cases is
   the entire quantity of water which must be supposed to exist in
   muriatic acid gas obtained ; and so far the proof is deficient.
   But neither from the nature of the experiment is this to be looked
   for; and I give more weight to the argument, from having al
   ways found certain portions of water to be procured, while, on
   the opposite doctrine, there should be none.         In those cases
   where, supposing water to be present in muriatic acid gas, it
   ought to be obtained in the full quantity, it uniformly is so,
   though the proof from these is rendered ambiguous by the result
   being capable of being explained on a different hypothesis.
                             [To be continued.]
   XXX.       On the Temperature of the Mines in Cornwall.           By
                           Mr. Thomas Lean.
                             To  Mr. Tilloch.
-  Sir, —    I  was requested in the year 1815, by a member of the
  Cornwall Geological Society, to make some observations on the
  temperature of the air in the mine of Wheal Abraham, in the
  parish of Crowan, in this county.        This mine is opened to the
  depth of 200 fathoms from the surface, and produces a consider
  able quantity of copper ore ; — the vein in which the copper ore
  (sulphuret of copper) is found, contains (sometimes) a small
  quantity of tin ore, zinc ore, lead ore, and iron ore ; — and ge
  nerally a considerable portion of mundic.       The metallic ores are
  imbedded in quartz and feltspar.        The first observations which
  I made was on the 9th of June ; and were made in a shaft in
  which a current of air is generally ascending through the mine.
  The thermometer (Fahrenheit's) when exposed for some time to
  the sun stood at 74°, and in the shade at 59°; and in the mine
  at different depths from the surface as mentioned below; viz.
jT          At 3 fathoms the thermometer stood       at  65°
  y            20                                        64f
               50                               ..       67
               80                                        68
              100                                        681
              120       ..                               69
              HO    ..  ..      ..      ..      ..       69f
                                                                     At

        On the Temperalure'of the Mines in Cornwall.                 205
     At 160 fathoms the thermometer stood at 70°
           180                                          73
           190        . .       . .       . .   . .     79 ; which was
at that period the bottom of the mine.
   At the several stations (or levels) where I placed the thermo
meter to settle, a stream of water comes through the vein (lode)
and is conveyed to the engines ; and on immersing the ther
mometer in    it,
              I   found the temperature to be as follows; viz.
   At 100 fathoms 68d in the cistern at the engine shaft, where
                            the water from this level  is  mingled with
                            the water from the bottom of the mine.         •
             do.     64 in the stream issuing through the level.
       110 do.        65   do.
       120   do.     68    do.                                  [per ore.
       140   do.      73f do. issuing through     a   vein, richin   cop-
       160 do.        74   do.       do.
       180 do.       74    do.
       190 do.       74    do.
 I   next proceeded to ascertain the temperature in those parts
of the mine where the labourers were at work; and which              isat
a distance of 15 to 30 fathoms from any current of air or of any
of the working shafts, and obtained the following indications:
   At 90 fathoms 74° the vein dry, but rich in ore.
       100    do.     70         do.       but poor,
       110    do.     72         do.          do.
       120    do.     73f        do.          do.
       130    do.     74|        do.          do.              [not rich.
       140    do.     76         do. containing ore in the vein, but
       150    do.     78         do.        but poor.        [other ores.
       160    do.     SO         do. the vein rich in copper, and
       170    do.     78|        do.        but poor.
       180    do.     78    considerable
                            a               quantity of wiiter dropping
from the roof of the working, and issuing from other parts of
the vein which   is rich in copper ores.
   On the 13th of December 1815           Irepeated my experiments,
and the results were as under viz.    ;
             At the surface iu the open air 50°
                 3 fathoms under the surface 52
               20    do.                           57
               40     do.             ¦    •
                                           •       61
               50 do.           .     •  • •       63
               60 do.           .     •    •
                                           «       63f
               SO    do.                   •
                                           ¦       64
              100 do.                              66
              110 do.                    • •       68—
              120 do.                 •  • •       70
                                                                          At

206   A Pbi/Sgi   to theCoast   of Labrador     and Quebec, ifriih Ttemarii
          At 130 fathoms under the surface            71 4°
              140   do                             72— water 72?
              150   do.           ..    ..       . 74
              160   do.        ..          ..      70
         • .                   ..
                                  ....
             170    do.                            71
             180    do                             74
             190 do.                               74
             200    do.        ..       ..         78 ; which Was the
highest temperature   of the  water  at  this time.    .
   Should any of your correspondents account for the increase of
the temperature in the Cornish mines, or communicate any ob
servations of their own made in other parts of the kingdom, it
would give considerable pleasure to many of your readers ; arid
if you consider these worth notice, it is my intention to com
municate, occasionally, observations which I may have an oppor
tunity of making in other parts of this county.
                            I remain, sir,
                                Your most obedient servant,
                                    "
Crowan (Cornwall), Sept. 11, 1818.                     THOMAS LEAN.
XXXI.     Account of a Voyage to the Coast of Labrador and
   Quebec, including Remarks on the comparative Temperature
   of the Eastern and Western Hemispheres.    By John Ha-
   mett, M.D. Communicated in a Letter to Dr. Pearson.
                      -~        H.M.   S. Prevoyante, Channel. Auti.21, 1817.
 My dear Sir, — Un            the 27th of March, at 2     P.M.   we set sail
 from the Sound,
                      to distant climes, a dreary scene,
              Where half the convex world intrudes between."
 We got down Channel, and far into the sluggish Atlantic with
 light arid pleasant breezes. Between the 2d and 14th of April
  the temperature was between 56 and 67, while the wind, which
  was generally from the eastward, just served to fan the blood.
  The temperature as we now proceeded to the westward became
  daily diminished, until the 22d, when at 8 P.M. in long. 55° 38*
  and lat. 46° 18' the mercury was down to 22.           At this hour
- the north wind
                   ejected with the greatest violence the thickest
  hail ; indeed rto face could possibly withstand this assault of the
  weather.    On Sunday the 20th, at about 6 P.M. in long. 53° 38'
  and lat. 45° 34' we fell in with an enormous mass of ice, about as
  high as one of our top-mast heads ; also with an extensive field
  ofit,  to which were attached five vessels fishing for seals. Early
  in the forenoon of Friday the 25 th, we got into    number of large
                                                         a
  detached sheets of    it,and about     A.M. of the ensuing day,
                                          2                                it
  blowing a strong gale from the E.         S., the ship was inclosed
                                              by
                                                                           in

«§   the Temparature     of the Easlein and Western HemhpheresJffl].
in an immense broken area, which with a very heavy swell on;
made her sides creak dreadfully.            However, we providentially
escaped from this imminent danger with trifling damage to her.
We entered the gulf early in the forenoon of Monday the 28th,
 and at 7h 30ra P.M. of the 29th proceeded into an immense
expanse of ice, consisting at the entrance of detached spongy
pieces ; but about 9h 30"1 her motion was altogether impeded ;
-and in the morning we found that she was completely locked up
 by .it, extending to the west and north as far as the eye could
 reach, while the part of Newfoundland in view called up terrific
 ideas of desolation and hunger.         About 10h 30™ A.M. of Friday
 the 16th May, after a number of zigzag motions, effected by
 means of small anchors that had been grappled in the ice for the
.purpose, we got clear, leaving to the south an immense field.
 This, as I was informed, principally drifts from the river St.
 Laurence, or gets into the gulf, and becomes increased there
 by the remainder of immense masses from Hudson's Bay, &c.
 which are borne round Newfoundland,            and impelled in the- re
 spective directions of the winds or currents.        That in which the
 Prevoyante was,       continued  to drift through  the  Straits of Bell-
  isle.
     This ice business was scarcely over, when we had to encounter
 others of a more alarming nature: for on the 23d of May, about
  7 P.M. the ship grounded on, or literally ploughed the Traverse,
  a zigzag rocky shoal about sixty miles down from Quebec, eight
 or nine miles in length, and extending right across, with the ex
 ception of a very narrow channel of a moderate depth, and which
  is commonly missed in consequence of only a solitary buoy being'
  attached to it ; while, on the other hand, the great distance of
  land on either side, the consequent deficiency of proper objects,
 and the ignorance of the pilots, who are only guided by the lead,
   (a method which, in a river of so great a flow and ebb, is not only
  uncertain, but for the most part fallacious,) naturally preclude
   the infallible or scientific resource of angular positions; or, to use
  a nautical phrase, cross-bearings.         We luckily got clear here
  with (as we afterwards learned) the loss only of her false keel.
      More vessels are, I believe, on an average, wrecked, and corw
  sequently more souls (in this respect) perish, in these parts than
   in any other quarter of the globe. Of the continual dense fogs
   and mists on the banks which contribute greatly to this, 1 shall
   say a little, after making a few preliminary remarks.
      In summer and in autumn, we commonly find, that in pro
   portion as a ship in sailing to Halifax, Newfoundland, or Quebec,
   recedes from the shores of England, or proceeds westward to cer
   tain longitudes, the winds from the southward and southern east
   ward become lesu heating, or more refreshing 5 au'd likewise in
                                                                   winter

 209   A Voyage to the Coast of Labrador  and Quebec, with. Remarks
winter or in spring, we particularly find, that in proportion   as she
proceeds    westward   to certain meridians  on  this side the banks,
 the cold winds from the north, the eastward, northern eastward,
or northern westward, become less piercing, and the temperature
 accordingly more congenial to the feelings ;. and that in pro
 ceeding further westward from these, the temperature gradually
 decreases, and the winds, from whatever point of the compass
 they blow, become colder and colder, until the sensations in
 duced by the biting blasts indicate the proximity of lands im
 pregnated with frost or covered with snow, or the contiguity of
 islands or. mountains of ice in winter, or of fields or islands of it
 in spring, that are impelled in the respective directions of the
Windsor currents; these (as I stated before) are the remain
 ders of immense islands or mountains of it from Hudson's Bay,
 &c. driven to the southward, and borne round Newfoundland,
 or those fields that have drifted through the gulf, and become in-
.creased thereout of the liver St. Laurence, on the breaking- up
tor partial solution of the ice.
     The early or protracted congealment in winter of those vast
 sheets of water the lakes of Canada, and the speedy or late
 solution of the ice in spring, naturally implies great irregu
 larity of temperature in those parts of America.        This irregu
 larity of congealment, or solution, particularly extends to the*
 river St. Laurence and Gulf, and has a corresponding influence
 on the temperature of the adjacent coast and Newfoundland,
 independent of that arising from those immense masses occa
sionally from the northward.      Sometimes the river St. Laurence
 is frozen up in November ; sometimes not until December or
 January ; and sometimes it is but partially and thinly concealed.
On the other hand, the solution of the ice takes place sometimes
 in March, and oftentimes not until the end of April, or begin
 ning of May. The river was crossed over on foot at Quebec so
 late as the 4th of May last; yet the Baltic was open the whole
of the preceding winter. It is therefore obvious, that an early or
protracted solution of the ice is not always the consequence of
 an early or protracted congealment of it; it is ofteh vice versa.
 From the slowness and protraction of the infusion of the matter
of heat into the icy waters of the river St; Laurence, it is consi
dered highly imprudent to bathe in it previous to midsummer. -
    The occasional rise of fogs or mists may, I think, be accounted
for by some, of those principles laid down elsewhere in my obser
vations on the climate of the Mediterranean ; but those con
tinual dense fogs or heavy mists peculiar to great banks, and hi
all probability connected with or dependent on other occult phae
nomena, cannot be exclusively referred to those genera.! laws of
nature alone.     Those parts noticed for different soundings, or
     . -                                                            as

    bn Ihe temperature     of the Eastern ana*JVesiernHemispheres.WQ
    as abounding       with banks of different depths, are remarkable for
    currents, and fogs or mists.        Fogs or mists have been remarked
,   in the Channel for a week together, even in summer. The North
    Sea, the bottom of which is composed of sand banks, abounds
    with currents ; and the air commonly teems with fogs and mois
    ture; while, on the other handj places in-land, in the same pa
    rallels of latitude, are remarkable for the peculiar brightness of
    their northern sky, glittering constellations, and constant ap
    pearance of the aurora torealh, or milky-way.                 The Dogger-
    bank is remarkable for its frequent fogs and mists ; but the banks
    of Newfoundland are notorious for dense fogs and heavy mists, ia
    every season and in every year.          The high temperature of the
    waters in the powerful current of the gulf of Florida, which
    extends as far as Newfoundland,          must produce a degree of va
    pour    on  meeting   with  strong contrary currents of a low tempera
    ture; and this must be further increased by a certain degree of
    percussion and revulsion occasioned by the various immense sand
    banks about      it,  that naturally agitate the contending currents.
    In addition to this, those operations or changes (so widely dif
                           if
    ferent in their nature, and which        I already have noticed to take
    place,)   in the  respective  extensive boundaries     of Newfoundland be
    considered,     the  gulf  of Newfoundland    itself,  and the banks from
    their particular position and peculiar properties, (the natural focus
    of mutually counteracting influence,) the causes of those fogs and
    mists may not remain altogether inexplicable.               think the bank
'
                                                            I
    fogs and mists rather prevail at the change of the seasons:               if
    this be true, variation of temperature, or winds of different qua
    lities, also contribute to their production.           That these mists or
    fogs tend   in   their turn to produce irregularity of temperature all
    round to   a   certain extent^ may be reasonably inferred.
         In winter,  in  general, so excessive      the cold at night, and so
                                                   is
    cloudless the sky      by  day, that the presence of even an oblique
    feun, in   consequence of the susceptibility of the system thus in
    duced, renders the air, though without relative increase of tem-
    perature, almost congenial to the feelings. — No one would sup
'
    pose that "the bleak coast           of  savage Labrador" reflects in
    summer the most intense heat.
         From these natural occurrences       itwill    Iimagine be easily in
    ferred, as the thermometer also proves, that the temperature of
    this watery and woody world has its maximum extremes, intense
'
    heats and excessive colds      ;   and further, that    it   greatly varies
     during either of these intervals or seasons.
         The great mutability of temperature in this part of America,
    as being so generally admitted, no one,             I believe, will attempt
     to refute nor, indeed, its baneful influence, whatever our ac
               J
     quaintance with the extent of      it  may be among the nativeinhn-
         Vol.52. No. 245. 5^.1818.                      O                bitants.

210                    On   Aril hinetical      Complements.
titants.   At all events, it         is,
                               as far as  can learn, sooner or later
                                                   I
destructive to Europeans in anywise affected with coughs, colds,
or haemorrhages from the lungs      and speedily so, to such as are
                                            ;
at all predisposed to or affected with, tubercles or vomicae.   Va
rious are the calamitous instances that could    be   adduced, both
in the navy and army, of the rapid progress and fatal termiaation
of this, even amid the prevalence of other disorders peculiar to
the climate.      have had some cases of pneumonia) and have
                     I
at present one of vomica?, which originated in    voyage to Green
                                                           a
land about eighteen months ago.          have  also
                                                 I   in my mind at
this moment the particular case of       captain of foot, who was
                                                   a
cut off in the flower of his age, at Montreal, in the winter of
1815,      by
           this disease, aggravated as  strikingly was
                                                   it      the per  by
nicious influence of the climate. Indeed, the peculiar suscepti
bility of the body to be acted upon                by
                                         the relaxation or particu
lar action of the exhalants, from      temperature so varying,
                                                                              is
                **********
                                                 a
very great
    XXXII.           On Arithmetical Complements.              By Mr. Peter
T                                Nicholson.
X have    been greatly surprised to find that the use of arithmeti
cal complements has been entirely confined to logarithms, and
that they are treated as       they only resulted from the properties
                                 if
of those artificial numbers.      But whoever has much practice in
finding the roots of equations              by
                                      approximation, or in any other
way,  must   have   felt  the confusion of so many changes of signs,
which require the negative and affirmative numbers to be added
together separately, and then their differences to be taken                   ;
whereas,      we were to use not arithmetical complements, but
                if
numbers found in        similar manner, we need only add the whole
                            a
together in one compact sum.
   And thus      may be seen that arithmetical complements are a
                 it
branch-of common arithmetic, and not at all peculiar to, though
very useful in, logarithms, nor their uses entirely confined to lo
garithms, but are equally useful in arithmetic and algebra.
   Let — -31416 be negative number subtract each figure from
                             a                         :
 10, and carry unity to the next figure      set the results in a. row
                                                     ;
 one after the other, proceeding from the right hand to the left,
 and prefix unity with         negative sign before the first figure.
                                 a
 This simple operation may be done at sight, without putting the
 one number "under the other, thus, 168584, where only the first
 figureis negative.
    This number now found      not the arithmetical complement,
                                       is
 but equivalent to the number itself: for 168584= — 100000
 +685'84        = -31416>
                                                                          The

                 On Arithmetical Complements.                    211
    Thearithmetical complement of any number iswhat that number
Wants of another number, which has unity for the left hand figure
followed by as many ciphers as are digits inthe,proposed number.
 This is equivalent to the usual definition ; but in my opinion it is
incorrect, and not congenial to any good principle of explaining
this kind of practice.    Authors usually direct to subtract every
digit from 9, except the last, which must be subtracted from 10.
But as to this, the reader may put in practice which method he
thinks proper.
    As my principal object is only to change such numbers as are
 put in opposition to affirmative numbers, and properly indicated
by the sign — ; and in doing this I only find equivalent numbers,
each composed of a negative and an affirmative part; this is there
fore not a complement, it will thus be inconsistent to em
ploy the term arithmetical complement ; but as some term must
be used in order to be understood, I shall therefore call the one
number the reciprocal equivalent of the number proposed, as by
the same operation the one may be converted to the other by
observing the proper change of the signs.
    I shall here present the reader with a few examples on this
species of arithmetic.
                              ADDITION.
    To add numbers which have different signs together.
                                 Rule.
    Find the reciprocal equivalents of the negative numbers   : then
add these equivalents and the affirmative numbers into one sum,
and deduct the negative units that may be in any column from
the sum of the column.
                              Example.
            Add 7854, 31416,     -734,    65321,  -2965.
                     Common  Method.
                                     N
                   f854~~~~~~                       7854
                  31416           734              31416
                  65321          2965               1266
                 104591          3699              65321
                                                  17035
                         "SB                     «¦»
                         100892
                            SUBTRACTION.
    Add the reciprocal equivalent of the number to be taken away
to the number which is required to be reduced, and the sum is
the remainder.
    Examples are unnecessary.
                                 O 2                         MULTI

2V2                On Arithmetical Cdmplernenfs:
                           MULTIPLICATION.
    Supposing the multiplier an abstract number, multiply ifttf
affirmative part of the proposed number by the multiplier, and
only set down as many of the right figures as are in the number
to be multiplied; then deduct the number formed by the re
maining figures on the left from the product of the negative part
of the given number by the multiplier ; prefix this difference with
a negative sign «ver it before the affirmative part, and we have
 the product required.
                               Examples.
                  (»)            J*)         _    (3)
                T5632            2734        589867
                       9              &
                                                       7_
                40688
                                                -
                                11872       2925569
The    reason is obvious,, for 9 x 15632 = 9 x     10000 + 9  x 5632,
    Now here any one of these products may be made to contain"
only a single negative unit in the first place of figures; by sub
tracting each of the negative digits from 10, as in the prepara
tory rule.
                                    -
    Thus in the first example the product 40688=160688 for
J 60000 = — 1 00000 + 60000 = 40000.
   Again, 1187*2=189872 j also 2925569=17125569.
                               DIVISION.
   ff the  negative part is divisible by the divisor, write the quo
tient below, and place the negative sign over, it : But if not di--
visible by the divisor, increase it till it becomes divisible; then
whatever number was added to the negative part, in order to
make it divisible, we must add an equal number to the affimative
part and divide by the divisor, and set down the quotient after
the negative part.
                               Examples.
                   (i)               (?)              JS)
               4)87832           5)78540         7)67983
                  21958            27708             12569
   The reason of this operation is obvious, since the number t&
be divided consists of an affirmative and a negative part ; there
fore by increasing each equally, viz. the negative by a negative,
and the affirmative by an affirmative, the difference is still the
same.     Thus in example second, the number to be divided is
78540= -70000 + 8540; then if to }he first of these hist num
bers we add —30000 ; and to the second we add 30000, we shall
have — 100000 and 38540, which are together equal to 78540.
                                                       XXXIII.  Com-

                                 t  U13   3
XXXIII.                         Trials of the respective Merits of
     " Massey'sComparative
                    Patent Sounding    Machine," and one known hj
     the Name of Gould and Burt's Buoy and Knipper.             Com
     municated in a better from Mr. Edward         Massey.
       '
   •                         To  Mr.Tilhch.
-Sir, — l^o      lessen the chances of misfortune in any place, is au
object of consideration with the humane.; but to add to the se
curity of vessels in their passage through the ocean, is worthy of
-the attention, not only of the merchant, but of the statesmaa
and the philosopher.       It is needless to suggest when ships are
 in  a   rough and tempestuous sea, and in a dark night, making
.perhaps ten knots an hour, and sailing in the company of a fleet,
 how desirable it is to all commanders to obtain soundings which
 may be depended upon as accurate, and which may be resorted
 to constantly without bringing the ship to, or retarding her way.
     My sounding machine has been adopted by the navy for ten
 years, and during that period upwards of seventeen hundred of
 them have been in actual use ; and reports of their accuracy,
 from skilful and experienced naval officers, may be referred to as
 undoubted testimonials of their merit.
     When I find, however, that within the last four years a ma
 chine has been proposed for the adoption of the navy, which is
fallacious in its principle, and in its consequences must be de
 structive to many ships and many crews ; where forced recom
mendation may be substituted for the test of experience, arid,
where the opinion of interest may delude the accuracy of inven
 tion.; I feel myself summoned bv the voice of truth, in justice to
 my own interests, and those of mankind, to state the result of a
public trial, respecting the comparative merits of these two ma
  chines.
     The follow.ing Notice was sent to the Lords of the Admiralty,
the Commissioners of the Navy, the Board of Longitude, the
"Trinity House, and to the Companies in the metropolis connected
with shipping and navigation ; and it was inserted at the same
time in the daily newspapers called The Public Ledger, The
 New Times, and The Morning Post.
     "To Navigators. — Edward Massey, the inventor of the
 Patent Sounding Machine, which has been adopted many years
in the Royal Navy, invites naval officers, ship owners, sea-faring
rrien, and every person connected with navigation, to witness a
public trial of the comparative merits of his sounding machine
 and one known by the name of * Gould and Burt's Buoy and
 Knipper,' to be made in the river Thames at London Bridge, on
 Thursday the sixteenth instant, at half past two o'clock in the
                                   P3                     .afternoon,

       '
214              On the Modulus      of Elasticity of Air,
afternoon, precisely ; where those gentlemen who have used the
buoy and knipper, and reported in its favour, are particularly
requested to attend, to witness this trial of their comparative
 accuracy.— 11th July ISIS."
    Accordingly on Thursday the 16th instant, in pursuance of this
 advertisement, I proceeded at the time, and to the place ap
pointed; and in the company of several naval officers and gentle
men of high respectability, resorted to experiments which have
been duly reported to the Lords of the Admiralty, the Commis
sioners of the Navy, and the Board of Longitude.                In one ex
periment      made  with  the  buoy  and   knipper  in three  fathoms    wa
ter,   it appeared by   the  knipper    to  be four fathoms  ;  and  on   re
peating this experiment in three and a half fathoms, it appeared
 to be seven, the buoy running up the line ; so that this instru
 ment will show a depth of water, in a current, or when a ship is
 under way in a driving sea, so much greater than the real depth,
 as to endanger in the most imminent degree both the ship and
 crew.
     In another instance, when the buoy and knipper were carried
 in a second boat, and the lead dropt with thirty fathoms of line
 across the current, the lead hung in the knipper, and would not
 sink; this experiment was repeated with fifteen fathoms of line
 across the currrent, when the same result took place — the lead
 not sinking.
     In repeating    these experiments      frequently with my machine,
 the real depth was given in every instance, without any varia
  tion. I am, sir,
                            Your obedient servant,
  Coventry,  July 20, 1818.                           EDWARD MasSEY.
  XXXIV.       On the Modulus     of Elasticity of Air, and the Velocity
                of Sound.     By Mr. Thomas Tredgold.
                               To  Mr. Tilloch.
  fern, —         hen Sir Isaac Newton investigated the propagation
  of bound, he considered the weight of an uniform atmosphere to
  be equal to the mean elastic force of common air*: and this
  mean elastic force has been considered to be the same as the
  modulus of elasticity of later writers.        But the modulus of elas
  ticity is defined to be a column of the same substance, capable
   of producing a pressure on its base, which is to the weight pro
  ducing a certain compression, as the length is to the diminution
  of the length.      Now this differs materially from the mean elastic
     • Principles of Natural Philosophy, props. 47, 48, 49, and 50. book ii.
                                                                        force

                      and   the Velocity    of Sound.                 215
force of Newton ; and yet it appears to be the only correct mea
sure of the elastie force of bodies.
    Let F be the force producing a compression E in a body
%vhose magnitude in its natural state is expressed by unity; then
E   : 1 : : F :    = the weight of the modulus of elasticity.
    Boyle, Marriotte, and      some other experimentalists infer, from
their   experiments, that air is compressed into half its natural
space by the addition of a pressure equal to the weight of the
atmosphere. Let the weight of the atmosphere be equal to thirty
inches of mercury, of the specific gravity 13•500;            then  — =
 14-05
     '
       = 29'3 lbs. the weight of the modulus of elasticity for           a
  0
base of nn inch square.         And the weight of 100 cubic inches of
air being 30-5 grains, the height of the modulus of elasticity of
air will be 5fi",038 feet, it is shown by writers on dynamics, that
the velocity of sound is equal to that acquired by a heavy body
in falling through half the height of the modulus of elasticity of
the medium ; consequently it will be nearly equal to the square
root of half the height of the modulus of elasticity multiplied by
8 ; and taking the value of the modulus stated above, it gives
 1339 feet per second as the velocity of sound.             Otherwise the
height of an uniform atmosphere, according to Professor Leslie*,
is 27,800 feet; and                     = 55,600 feet, the height of the
                             =2"^o
>modulu3    of elasticity of air; and, accordingly, the velocity of
sound would be 1333 feet per second.
    In these calculations the elasticity of the air is supposed to be
perfect, and that the compression is as the force producing it ;
neither of which are true of atmospheric air: besides, it always
contains a considerable quantity of vapour, sometimes, according
to Dr. Thomson, as much as a sixtieth part of its bulk, and it is
well known that the elasticity of damp air is much inferior to
that of dry.
    But the chief   cause  of error appears to arise from considering
atmospheric air a perfectly elastic fluid, aud the elastic force to be
as the compression. The rude experiments of Boyle and Marriotte
were insufficient to establish the law of compression. More accu
rate experiments have, I believe, been made ; but I have not an
opportunity of referring to them at present.
    The imperfect elasticity of air appears to be owing to the heat
extricated during compression. The temperature being the same,
every change in the density of the air must be accompanied by a
corresponding change in the quantity of heat it contains.           When
                *
                  Supp. F.ncv. Brit. art. Acoustics, p. 44.
                                     0   4                             »ir

216               On the Theory     of Water- Spouts.
air is compressed, the excess of heat will begin to be diffused
among the surrounding bodies as soon as it is developed : and
when the pressure is removed, the air cannot return to its original
bulk till it be supplied with heat.
    If the heat given out during compression could be retained by
pon-conductors round the compressed air, ready to he imbibed
whenever the pressure should be removed, then undoubtedly the
elastic force would be as the density; but in all cases the heat
is free to move to other bodies; and when air is compressed intp
half the space it occupies in its natural state, according to Mr.
Dalton, its temperature is increased fifty degrees : and as the
rate of cooling is nearly as the excess of temperature, the elastic
force will be diminished in proportion to the quantity of heat
given out : consequently, under great compressing forces the
elastic force must increase much slower than the density, but the
precise effect will differ according to the time in which the change
is produced.
    To take into consideration the Imperfect elasticity of air, and
the effect of the vapour it contains, would render the calculation
of the velocity of sound extremely intricate ; but an approximate
value of the modulus of elasticity might be obtained from experi
ment.
    If Newton's measure of the elastic force of air had been cor<-
rect, the velocity of sound calculated from it should have been
above tho result of experiment and not below it; because he sup
poses the air to be perfectly elastic. His hypothetical supposition
respecting the magnitude of the solid particles of air is unsup-
ported by experience or analogy: and though his reasoning re-*
specting the effect of vapour in some measure coincides with the
ingenious speculations of Mr. Dalton, yet it is not the less di
stant from the real laws of the elasticity of a mixture of gaseous
 bodies.
                        I am, sir, yours,
                                   '      &c. &e.
 Sept. 21, 1818.                               Thomas Tredgoi.d,
   XXXV.      On the Theory    of Water- Spouts.    By Mr. Gavi#
                                 Inglis.
                                                 '
                            To  Mr. Tillocfi,
                 I
 Dear Sir, — have been observing with no small degree of
 interest the various statements regarding the laws and principles
 of that wonderful and often alarming phaenomenon, the water
 spout, a satisfactory theory of which can only be deduced from
 a collection and collation of facts resulting from actual observa
 tion, and furnished by those who may have had an opportunity

                     On the Theory   of Water-    Spouts,             2 17
of witnessing       these marvellous operations of nature.        Several
papers    in  your   useful Miscellany are  so replete  with information
of this class, the occurrences so judiciously observed and «o
minutely detailed, as to render them particularly interesting to
the student of meteorology.
    My professional avocations have afforded me no opportunity
of viewing these wonders of the deep ; nevertheless, I have had
the good fortune to see two ; the one an ascending, and the
other a descending water-spout.         They are twin children of the
same parent.         The two 1 had the happiness to observe, were
completely conclusive as to the water rising to the one cloud,
and falling from the other; upon which I founded a theory to
satisfy myself, and had preserved drawings of their respective
appearances taken at the time, and notes of what I thought ne
cessary to keep in remembrance.            Independently of these, no
thing could be more strongly impressed upon my memory than
what I am about to detail.
    I was then a very young man, and had only begun to keep a
common-place          book, to take drawings of whatever struck my
fancy,   and    notes  of such occurrences as I conceived worth pre
serving.      I  had   gone pretty early in the morning of the 2d of
July 1788, to a rising ground at the back of Kirkaldy, opposite
the old Fish Ponds of Abbotshall, where some rondales or small
isles had been formed and planted with large fir trees, which
produced an admirable and amusing echo.              This was from a de
 sire to ascertain, whether the warm rarified air of a summer
 evening, or the cool dense air of the morning, was most condu
 cive to the continued vibration of sound necessary to produce an
 echo.     Musing and attentively listening to the responses — the
 sudden overcasting of the sun made me turn round in expecta
 tion of immediate rain, when my eye was attracted towards the
 opening of the Firth.        Nothing could exceed the awful appear
 ance of the atmosphere, conjoined with the gloom cast upon the
 surface of the sea, by a cloud of uncommon darkness and density
 that spread over the whole opening of the Firth, from Fife Ness
 towards St. Abb's Head.          From the front of the cloud a well-
 defined line, to appearance about the thickness of an ordinary
  cable, descended to the surface of the water.           Looking atten
 tively,  it soon  assumed   the magnitude    of a man's  waste, and con
 tinued to increase as it advanced up the Firth.              It was some
  time before I could bring myself to conceive what this might
 he, when the idea of a water -spout driven by the east wind into
 the Forth from the German Ocean came into my mind.                 Elated
 with the thoughts of seeing what I had often heard described as
  a tale of wonder, I ran to the shore, in expectation of studying
 Jt to more advantage, where a great number of people had &U

  218               On the Theory (of Water-Spouts.
 ready collected, amongst whom several old sailors whose testi
  mony put its identity beyond all doubt.
      It came up the Firth with such rapidity, propelled by its own
  electric velocity, outstripping the light breeze of easterly wind
  then blowing, so that a solitary fisherman seated in the stem of
 his boat, with his face all the while towards the phaenomenon,
  bad only time, after perceiving its rapid approach, to draw up
  his anchor-stone and pull out of its course.         He, after landing,
 described the appearance        of the surface, all round the proboscis,
  <c
     just like a boiling caldron." The hissing noise of the water
 .separating itself from the salt, was most distinctly heard by those
  on shore, which noise made them suppose the water was falling
 from the cloud, and prognosticated a deluge and destruction of
 the west end of the town. But as it nearer! the shore and lacked
 water, the proboscis lessened in density and thickness, and at
 Jast detached itself entirely from the water and ascended in beau
 tiful spirals into the cloud, and passed over the town with only
 s. few heavy drops of rain.        7 his I consider most conclusive of
 the rise of the water from the sea to the cloud in this class of
 water-spouts.
     While the water was rising from the sea and ascending to the
 cloud, and went off without injury at the negative, all the effects
 of a descending water-spout, from the lengthened course and
 the surcharge of water in the shape of torrential rain, was felt
 within the range of the positive end, in such quantity and with
 such rapidity and force, as nearly to prove fatal to some Buck-
 haven fishermen who had put to sea that morning.                To save
 their lives, they had to give up their oars, and with their hats
 bail out the water that fell from above, to keep their boats from
 sinking. The cloud took a direction up the country towards
 Cupar, doing material damage, and created torrents where water
 never ran before, and converted some new-made ditches into
-deep and broad ravines, now the beds of small streams and purl
ing rills.    Give me leave now to state the theory I had formed
 before narrating the account of the descending water-spout.
     I am perfectly satisfied, that the whole phaenomenon of the wa
ter-spout, whether ascending ordescending,which as already men
tioned are but twin children of the same parent, is entirely depen
dent on and governed by the laws of electricity. Whether the cloud
that becomes the parent of the water- spout, be positively or ne
gatively electric,- a collection of facts can best determine.         My
opinion is that it must be negatively so, at its first formation,
and that in the escape of the equilibriating electricity from the
oecan, the surface becomes violently agitated, or rises into a co
lumn elevated above the general level,, which I would account
for by supposing a perpendicular proboscis to descend from the
                                                               gathering

                   On the Theory    of JVater-Spouls.             219
gathermg cloud.       The electricity rushing at right angles in full,
force from every point of direction to one common centre, must
by the collapsing force of currents raise the water ahove its level,,
and that elevation may be rendered apparently stationary, du
ring the continuation of the same, or perhaps an increased electric
pressure.      But in cases where the proboscis descends obliquely,
 the stream of electricity at the commencement from the obliquity
 of the attractor will be partial ; and, instead of drawing at once
 from every point to a focus, the first current flowing in a direct
line with and towards the descending projectile, and not at right
 angles with the common centre, must give an oSlique direction
 to the accumulating fluid, and instead of collapsing and raising
 the water, produce an eddy, turning a mass in the midstream
 like passing water giving motion to a horizontal wheel.            In
 absence of a better hypothesis, electricity is always at hand, like
 phlogiston of old, to fill up the vacuity of every doubtful theory.
 If I am wrong, I shall be happy to adopt any other more satis
 factory.     I however must candidly confess my ignorance of any
 other element so universally diffused, or so powerful in its agency,
 that could so instantaneously be called into action, and brought,
 when necessary, from pole to pole, or could produce the chemical
 effect of separating, so rapidly and in such quantity, the fresh
 water from the salt, and carry it upwards from the sea to the
 clouds.     Were the waters raised from the sea to the higher
 elevations of the air by mere suction, or raised as waters in a
 pump, the ascending water must of course carry with it all the
 saltness of the ocean, and the rain from such clouds must of ne
 cessity be salt : were this the case, every isle, and many parts of
 the continents, must be visited by saline showers, and the waters
  of the isles become brackish and unwholesome.       If this has ever
 been the case, some of your better informed correspondents may
  be able to instruct, and I should be glad to be guided by such
'information. I am however inclined to believe that the allwise
  Distributor of every blessing has of his infinite wisdom ordered
  it otherwise, that all the waters drawn up from the sea, that are
  again to descend upon the earth for the support of creation,
  must go up fresh, and that the hissing and ebullating noise, the
  never-failing attendant of the ascending waterspout, is occasioned
  by the chemical separation of the water from the salt.
      Such has been my opinion of the cause and origin of the as
  cending waterspout ; the descending, upon investigation, will be
  found a legitimate of the same family, being onlv a discharge of
  the water from the positive, that has ascended by the electric
  influence at the negative part of the cloud, and which must, when
  the cloud is overcharged, again fall in rain in all its forms, or in
   a solid column, then denominated a waterspout] just as incident^
                                                                   ma.,

  220              On the Theory   of Water-Spouts.
 may occur to give birth to its first arrangements. From this cir
 cumstance, descending waterspouts can seldom occur at sea, ex
 cept in the shape of torrential rains, having few points of attrac
 tion to draw the spark from the cloud.      It is certainly on shore,
  and in alpine countries, where they most frequently appear, when
  the elevated peaks and lofty mountain tops present their grave
 attraction, and arrest the clouds in their progress, drawing from
  thence the electric matter with its concomitant destructive and
 deluging floods.
     Let us suppose, for instance, a cloud of any magnitude to col
 lect over the main ocean, sufficiently electric to become the pa
 rent of an ascending waterspout ; suppose the connecting pro
 boscis ample, the corresponding vortex must be of proportionate
  capacity : the ascending vapour will soon extend over a great
 apaee. Still the concentrating aggregate will be directed by the
 electric impulse towards the positive tendency; and thus, after the
 cloud has received a full charge, the confluence of the particles
 niust produce rain from all parts within the positive range, unless
 some attracting body give to the whole volume a drift current
 to a concentrated focus, and by consolidating the particles fall
 in one dense mass.      Or suppose the cloud to extend, and go on
 uninterruptedly accumulating, propelled by the wind or its own
 electric impulse towards, and brought in contact with, Si. Hele
 na, Teneriffe, or some other island of the ocean; we might then
 as well bring a powerful conductor in union with a full charged;
 battery without a shock, as not produce a descending water
 spout.    Draw but one spark from the cloud, and you instantly
 produce   a current or a vacuum: however 6mall at the commence
 ment, a collapsation takes place in proportion to its magnitude,
 the concussing globules augmenting in size by the incessant os»
 eillant motion of the electric fluid become rain, the rain forms
 heavier and heavier, and in falling from the cloud with accumu
 lating force draws more into its wake, continuing to aggregate
 till the whole yolume of the watery matter is drawn into one cen
 trical vortex, forming a column of dense solidity, and falling with
 deadly. destruction on whatever it may chance to descend on.
     Such I believe was the origin and termination of the water-
 upout which did so much mischief at St. Helena.
     Amidst these suppositions, let us take another case, and imar
gine a cloud whose connexion with the sea had by some accident
 been cut off, after having attained nearly a full charge of elec
 tricity and watery vapour, and after the consequent turmoil ad
justed its own equilibrium, the cloud would become positive to
 wards the nearest or greatest point of attraction ; viz. if at sea,
 the corresponding convexity of the surface of the globe, or the
nearest or highest headland or mountain on shore.           Should a

                    On the Theory   of Water+Spouts.               221
skip be ao unfortunate as to become the attraetof of a cloud of
this description, and the main mast the point of discharge, although
well provided with all the necessary apparatus to save the shi|>
from the influence of the electricity, it is hardly possible that any
vessel could escape destruction from the descending water, or
any one remain alive to tell the dreadful tale.       It is of no con
sequence what is the main attractor, or what becomes the prin
cipal point of discharge : once drawn off, the electric spark and
all its direful concomitants follow in destructive array with the
descending waterspout.
     I have now to detail the particulars of that spout alluded to in
the outset of this paper.
     It fell on Benardy, a hill at a short distance from this, which
•separates Loch Leven from Loch On-, between two and three
o'clock in the afternoon of the ISth July 1792. The mornmg
was wirm and delightful ; there was no indication of rain till to
wards mid day, when a heavy cloud began to rise from the west,
 and advanced eastward, casting a particular gloom over the face
 of nature as it covered the meridian, and I observed the sun dark
 ening the whole country with a more than ordinary dusk. I had
scarce sat down to dinner, when one of the servants came in,
 and begged I would look at the extreme commotion distinctly vi
 sible in the cloud now resting over Benardy.         The appearance
 was highly amusing, the whole cloud seemed convulsed, and fre
 quent- bursts of white vapour, like dense white smoke, issued from
 its dark sides; at last a flash of lightning of uncommon brilliancy
 and size darted from the lower part of the cloud.         This was in
 stantly followed by the spout, in shape of an inverted cone, which
joined the cloud and the hill, deluging the whole country round.
 This was soon followed by one of the most awful thunder storm*
  (still fresh in the memory of every one) that ever visited this part
 of the country.      The quantity of water that fell from the cloud
 by the spout was quite incredible.       Those who lived nearer the-
 liill and observed its appearance more closely, described its de
 scent from the mountain's brow like the waves of the sea in a
 storm.       The descending water carried every thing' before it,
  bore down many roods of Galloway dykes, filled quarries ; and
  LochOrr, that had just been drained, was, notwithstanding its
  deepening and increased outlet, soon filled to its ordinary level;
  Loch Leven. was raised to an unusual height, the Carses were
  overflown, and the river Leven below Auchmoor bridge in a very
  short time filled considerably beyond its highest winter flood.
  The rain fell in torrents for miles round ; notwithstanding of
  which, the cone on the hill remained distinctly conspicuous, al
  though somewhat obscured, till the cloud had discharged its whole
  contents, and the sky became cjear.        Curiosity prompted seve

 222                  Koikes respecting New Books.
 ral people to visit the summit of the hill after the storm was over,
 where they found the strongly matted turf, where the spout
 poured out its waters, completely torn off, the subsoil washed
 away, and a considerable space laid bare to the rock.
    This I think must be considered as conclusive of the descent
  of the water in this case, as the rise of the water in the other.
                                           I remain yours ever,
     29th July, 1818.                               GAVIN InGLIS.
                XXXV.    Notices respecting New Books.
 A   new Variation Chart   of the Navigable Globe, from 60 Degrees
     North   to 60 Degrees South Latitude.     By Thomas YeateS.
 The      charts hitherto published being only transcripts of Dr.
  Halley's original chart, with few corrections for the change of
 variation since his time, and none of them extending beyond the
 Atlantic and Indian oceans ; navigators have long regretted the
  want of an accurate variation chart comprehending the whole
 circuit of the navigable ocean and seas of our globe. To sup
 ply this want, the author of the present chart has with much
 labour and care constructed a general chart of the variation of
 the magnetic needle, for all the known seas within sixty degrees
 of the equator, north and south, from accurate documents ob
 tained from Spanish surveys in the Pacific Ocean, journals at the
  Hydrographical Office, Admiralty, and the East India House^
 collated with tables of the variation recently formed from the?
 observations of different navigators.
    The Chart is on the Mercator's projection, drawn with the
 latest improvements, and the magnetic lines are drawn upon it
 throughout for every degree of change in the variation; with an
 accurate delineation of the magnetic equator and meridians,
 never before introduced in charts of this description, and the
 whole is accompanied with suitable remarks and illustrations.
    The Chart is presumed to form a valuable accompaniment to
 all navigation charts in present use, and will be found not only
important to the navigator, but interesting to the philosopher
and the man of science, in exploring the theory and properties
of the magnetical instruments used on sea and land.
    Anderson and Chase have just published their Annual Cata
logue of Books in Anatomy, Medicine, Surgery, Midwifery, Che
mistry, Botany, &c. &c. new and second hand, including an ex
tensive collection of foreign publications recently imported, a
complete List of the Lectures delivered in London, with their
                                                              terms,

                   Society   of Sciences of Haarlem.               223
terms, hours of attendance, &c.          Also, A Manual of Practical
Anatomy for the use of studewts engaged in dissections, by Ed
ward Stanley, Assistant Surgeon, and Demonstrator of Anatomy,
 at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, in one volume 1 2mo.
              XXXVI.     Proceedings   of Learned    Societies,
                  SOCIETY OF SCIENCES OF HAARLEM.
 The      following questions in the Physical Sciences have been
 proposed by this Society for competition previous to the 1st of
 January 1820 :
     3. How far it is actually demonstrated that the fumigations
 by oxygenated muriatic gas after the manner of Guyton have
 served to prevent the spread of contagious maladies ? What are
 the contagious maladies in which the effect of this gas deserves
 to be tried, and what ought to be principally observed in such
 experiments ?       Is there any reason to expect a more salutary
 effect, in the prevention of contagion, from any other mean hi->
 therto employed or proposed ?                                         -
     4. What are we to regard as distinctly proved in respect of
 the gastric juice of the human body, and its influence in the di-»
 gestion of food ?      Is its existence sufficiently proved by the ex*
 periments     of Spallanzani and Senebier; or has it been rendered
 doubtful by the experiments of Montegre ? What is it that com
 parative anatomy, and principally the opening of the stomach of
 animals killed, either after fasting, or in a short time after having
 taken food, have rendered probable in this respect ? And in the
  case of the existence of the gastric juice in the human body being
  regarded as a fact perfectly established, what ought we to avoid,
  in order not to impair its effect in the process of digestion ?
     5. As the new mode of distillation which some years since
 Vvas originally practised      at Montpellier, and has been since
 adopted and improved in the south of France, according to which
 the substances from which spirituous liquors are extracted are
 not immediately exposed to the action of fire, but heated by
 steam— a process which is not only more ceconomical than the
 ordinary method, but which has this additional advantage, that
 the spirituous liquors produced by it are of a purer and a more
  agreeable taste — the Society desire to know " What is the
 best apparatus for extracting, according to this method, with the
  greatest profit, the purest spirituous liquors from grain, as wine
  is drawn from the vines of France ?"
     The prize offered to those who, in the judgement of the So
  ciety, shall give the best answer to any of these questions, is a
                                                                   gold

224                        The Safety-lamp.
gold medal, or one hundred and fifty florins, at the option
                                                                                 o(
the author.
    An anonymous individual 'has offered to the French Royal
Academy of Sciences a sum of 7000 fratics for the foundation of
a prize of experimental philosophy;
        XXXVII.      Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                            THE SAFETY-LAMP.
 On this subject we have received a letter from an anonymous
                                  we take the following paragraph:-
 correspondent, from which
    " In a letter to Dr. Thomson which appeared in the Annals
of Philosophy for April       1816, p. 319, the following statements
 occur respecting the lamp for mines
                                                :
    "  You have not developed        the   principle upon which the be-*
 nefits of the gauze depend.        You talk of a fixedness of the air
 which cannot be. If an explosion takes place
                                                                without any con
                                            contact      of   the adjacent wires
 siderable extrication of heat, the
                                        renders it incapable of kindling
 cools down the red-hot air, and
                              It    clear,    therefore, that Dr. Thomson
 combustion without."            is
 did not before that time possess           the    principle upon which the
                                                          wire-gauze or multi
 non-communication of combustion through
                                       and it is      also   dear that the prior
 plied holes in metal depends;
                                                                         by which
 discovery and development of the wire-gauze principle
                                   arrested, belongs to the writer of that
 the inflammation of gases is
                                                                     had appeared
 letter, if at that time no statement of the principle
              If it had, Dr.   Thomson       would      have    known    of it. If
 in print.
 it had, let the time be stated.         If  it   had    not,    let due  credit be
given to the writer of
                           that letter."
                                                              letter, we withhold
    The remaining part of our correspondent's
                                    on which he treats.              He has " still
 as irrelevant to the question
                                                             of the lamp," arid
 some remaining doubts of the perfect safety
                                                   that    the   lamp should be
 to have these removed he proposes
                                      of hydrogen          and    oxygen gases — *
 plunged into various mixtures
                                                    with     oxygen.      No such
 of artificial carluretted hydrogen gas
                                                    have    therefore   nothing to
 mixtures ever exist in mines, and they
                                            for mines. Our correspondent
 do with the lamp, as a safe-lamp,
 next proposes that     similar  experiments should be made with in
 flammable
              " gas from the mine by plunging
                                                          the lamp entirely into
                                                 air  in  vessels in the labora
 -various mixtures of it with common
                                                       mines."       Such experi
 torv, not applying it to blowers in the
                                          the gas of the mine have been
 ments as he recommends with
                                                     results favourable to the
 often made already, and always with
 •afetyofthelarap.

                          Northern Expedition.
                    STEAM ENGINES IN CORNWALL.
    From Messrs. Leans' Reports for July and August 1818, it
 appears that during these months the following was the work
 performed by the engines reported, with each bushel of coals.
                                Pounds of water lifted        i Loud per square
       For July.             lfoot   high with  each 'bushel]    inch in cylinder.
 25 common engines averaged                2,3,761,463               various.
 Woolf's at Wheal Vor              ..      29,081,048                17-3 lib.
Ditto        Wh. Abraham . .               34,286,774                 168
 Ditto        ditto     ..          ..     27,932,848                  6-6
 Dalcouth engine         . .       . .     38,055,354                 11-3
Wheal Abraham          ditto        ..     34,561,187                 109
United Mines engine                 ..      33,147,791                14-4
 Treskirby ditto        ..          ..     41,325,216                 10- S
Wheal Chance ditto                  ...    32,441,682                 11- 9
      For August.
25 common engines averaged                 23,851,384                various.
Woolf's at Wheal Vor              . .      27,746,727                17-5
         '
Ditto       Wh. Abraham            ..      45,510,419                16-8
Ditto       ditto      ..'         ..      25,944,753                  6-7
Dalcouth engine        ..          ..      41,8S3,745                11-3
Wheal Abraham          ..          ..      38,032,270                10-9
United Mines ditto  '  . .         . .     33,289,655                14-9
Treskirby ditto        ..          ..      38,308,014                10- 8
Wheal Chance ditto                . .      31 ,379,570               11- 9
                       NORTHERN EXPEDITION.
   Official accounts have arrived from the vessels employed in the
attempt to discover the North-west passage to the Pacific OcCan,
dated July 28th and August 1st.                At the date of the first de
spatches the Isabella and the Alexander were in latitude 75° 30*
N. longitude 60" 30* W. very near the head of Baffin's Bay. The
weather was serene and perfectly clear.                  The variation of the
compass, by     accurate      observations repeatedly made on board
both ships, was 89° and the dip 84° 30'.                 It had been perfectly
calm, and the sea as smooth as glass for three or four days, and
the current drifted them to the south-eastward, which raised their
hopes of there being an open passage to the westward, through,
Alderman Jones's or Sir James Lancaster's Sound.                       All the way
up  the middle   of   Davis's    Straits    they   skirted    an   unbroken    field
of ice on the left, but as they proceeded it became thinner, and
apparently rotten, and they were sanguine that, the moment the
breeze sprang up, the ice to the westward would allow them to
reach the northern shores of America.                   The utmost harmony
   Vol. 52. No.   245.    Sept. 1818.                  P                  prevailed

                       Northern Expedition.
 prevailed among the officers and every part of the ship's com
 pany, and all were in perfect health.
     The second dispatches of the 1st of August are the last which
 in all probability will be received this year, as our ships were go
 ing beyond the track of all the trading and fishing vessels, which
 till then had accompanied their course. Strange as it may ap
 pear, the approach of winter, which begins very early in those
 high latitudes, seems to have increased, instead of shutting out
 every hope of success.      In a private letter from Captain Ross,
 in lat. 75° 48' N. long. 61° 3V W. he says, " I have but a few
-moments to tell you, that we have now every prospect of success,
 the ice is clearing away fast, and the wind is at N.E.        Our va
 riation observed   on   the  ice, 88-13.   We  have  killed  a whale,
 and laid in a stock of blubber for our winter fuel." — The letters
 Teceived from other persons, under his command, are of the same
 date, and equally promising.'        They state, that the ice was
 clearing away, and that their prospect of success was improving.
 The most extraordinary phfenomenon of the variation of the
 compass had gone on increasing ; — it was 88. 13. on the ice —
 we say on the ice, for on board ship, owing to some peculiar in
 fluence not yet ascertained, it was much more.            The former
 letters, of which we have already given extracts, mention, that
 on board ship the variation was at one time 95 degrees, that is,
 the needle pointed, instead of north, to the southward of west.
 This difference between the real variation and an apparent vari
 ation on board ship was first observed by Captain Flinders, but
 it was supposed to be an accidental peculiarity in his ship : it is
 now clear that it belongs to all ships, and varies in all, and there
 would be little doubt that it should be attributed to the influence
 of the iron about the vessel, except for a curious fact which we
 understand has been ascertained ; namely, that the compasses
called insulated compasses, which are placed in boxes of iron^
 and which are uninfluenced by external iron, when brought near
 to them, are affected by the ship variation in the same degree as
 the common compass. — This, which is now called the deviation,
has been found to be much greater as the experiments go north
ward. This is accounted for from the circumstance of the' dip
of the needle diminishing what is usually called its polarity, and
allowing  it, therefore, to be more easily affected  by  the local in
fluence of the ship.
    Suchis  the substance of the official accounts as far as we have
been able to learn.      Thereis   an abundance of private letters to
the friends and relations of those who have embarked in this
most important enterprise.         The following are extracts from
some of the most interesting.
                                                               « His

                             Northern Expedition.                          227
                                  " His   Majesty's Ship Alexander, June 17.
     "
     My Dear Sij8 — I am now writing in the tent upon the
north end of Hare or Waygatt Island, with the pendulum clock
within one yard of me, and the observatory and all the instru
ments within half-a-dozen.  We were arrested in our progress
yesterday by the ice, which forms a complete bar about three
miles to the northward of this island, commencing on the Green
land side, from what is called Four Island Point, and extending
down the straits at a distance not greater than ten miles to the
westward of this island, and 15 to the westward of Disko. Soon
after entering the Straits, we found it absslutely impracticable
to go up to the middle, as the ice gradually brought us into the
land, till a little to the northward of Riskoll (vulgo Reef Koll)
we were for a day or two totally blockaded.      The ice then, by
one of those unaccountable changes that       so frequently occur
here, opened sufficiently to give us a free passage, till yesterday
we found a second bar in this place.      From every account we
haveFreceived, as well as from what we have already seen, it is
certain that the last winter has not only been severe, but that
the frost has lasted much later than has been the case for many
years past. You may imagine our surprise when, on coming'
into this neighbourhood yesterday, we found upwards of 35 Bri
tish ships at anchor upon the ice-bergs, which completely form
a cluster of innumerable islands from the spot in which I at this
moment view them. They have all been detained here — not
days, but weeks, in spite of every exertion to get to the north
ward ; and the fishery may be considered as hitherto an unsuc
                                  ....
cessful one, with the exception of a few of the ships in Disko
Bay.
     "   The
                   .
         causes which operate upon the ice producing very sud
den changes in         it,
                  are so little understood, that             it
                                                    impossible    is
to judge when any such change may take place as to enable us
to get to the northward.    have just been to the top of
                                I                           moun       a
tain of no inconsiderable height, to determine its altitude by the
barometer    and
               :    wish
                       I  could give you an adequate idea of the
                              I
magnificent sublimity of the scene    have just witnessed.
                                               I              The
whole horizon to the northward and westward         one complete
                                                            is
mass of compact field ice    with the exception of above 500 ice
                                ;
bergs, which, with here and there a small spot of clear blue wa
ter, serve to vary the scene, which would otherwise tire the eye
with the uniformity of its dazzling whiteness. To the eastward
is seen the land of Greenland, very high, almost entirely covered
with snow, and frowning, as        were, upon the ocean of ice
                                          it
which environs its shores. To the southward          the island of
                                                             is
Disko, with its summit (which we have never clearly seen) com-
                                      P    2                pletely

228                        Northern Expedition.
pletely lost in the clouds.       Near this island are all the Green
land ships at anchor, giving a finish to the scene, whose gran
deur and beauty are far beyond any thing I have seen before.
 The longitudes of the places on this coast were very much in
want of correction.        We had a great number of excellent lunars
to the southward, which, with the Isabella's chronometers, which
go admirably, will, I think, determine the longitudes so far, to
the nearest three or four miles.        The dip of the needle in lat.
 67.  22.  was  82. and the variation 67. 30.
   "   Here the dip about the same, and the azimuths we have
taken this morning we cannot work for want of a latitude, which
we hope to obtain at midnight.          The transit of the sun for the
pendulum     we    hope to  get to-morrow,   and if the ice still remains
firm,   so as  to  prevent  our  leaving this place, the next day, we
trust,, will produce something in this way.          Delighted as I am
 to take a part in these observations, I confess I should be glad
 to see the tents struck to-night, and the ice open ; and you may
 rely upon it, that no object whatever will ever tempt our Com
 modore to neglect fot an instant the main object of the expedi
 tion. The current that has been spoken of as coming constantly
 down the Straits, if it exists at all, must be to the westward of
 our track up the Straits; and, indeed, all the masters of the
 ships have a great dread of being set to the westward in our
 present latitude, as they insist upon it that if a ship were beset
 here she would probably come out in 65 degrees.
                 ;       .
                                                    " Tuesday, June 28.
     <(
          The ice having opened   little on the evening of Saturday,
                                  a
•we endeavoured to get over from Hare Island to the coast of
 Greenland, or, as the masters call        it,
                                           the East Land.   The Isa
bella was beset in making this attempt, and was drifted about
 with the ice     the tides till Monday morning. We were more
                  by
 fortunate, having succeeded in getting over la the land, and into
clear water, on Sunday evening, and there made fast to       berg,
                                                                a
to wait for the Isabella.  There would be no navigating this sea
but for. the bergs for, afteT the men have towed and warped
                       ;
the ship for 12 or 14 hours, she would be adrift again, and at
the mercy of the ice,     you could not anchor in security to one
                            if
of these enormous masses, which rests upon the ground, and
perfectly securss you from every danger, except that (which has
once or twice occurred to us) of drifting off with     high spring
                                                          a
tide into deep water.         A
                            ship     almost perfectly secure from
                                      is
going on shore, when well anchored to them        for the smallest
                                                    ;
of them   draws  so much  more  water  than any ship, that    must
                                                                 it
ground long before the ship, unless the shore immediately   within
it   isvery steep indeed.      very small ice-berg, to which we
                                 A
                                                          anchored

                                Northern Expedition.                          229
anchored on the 9th of June, was grounded in 52 fathoms, and
was so firmly moored, that the levels of the dipping needle were
not in the slightest degree affected.
                                                                     " July   5.
   " Since        I last wrote, we have been incessantly occupied in
 attempting to get through the ice to the northward.         The first
 stage we made was into North-east Bay, where we have been
detained several days, which could only be occupied in settling
the position of the several points of land, &c. and the variation
 of the compass, which, by the by, can never be done on board
 a ship with any tolerable degree of accuracy, a difference of 30
 degrees arising from a change in the ship's head, on board the
 Isabella.   On board the Alexander this difference is very appa
 rent also, but in a much smaller degree.        I do not, however,
 consider the experiments we have yet made to be sufficiently nu
 merous, or sufficiently delicate, to enable us to draw any satis
 factory conclusion from them on this very interesting point, till
 further and better opportunities offer.
    " We had rather an interesting visit from two Esquimaux fa
 milies the other day, but with the details of which I shall not
now trouble you.        In truth, I have so few moments to spare
 from the immediate duties which now press upon us, that I fear
 you will think my letter but a shabby one. These last two days
 have given us a run to the northward beyond our most sanguine
 expectation, as we are at this moment within seven miles of the
 northernmost of the Womn's Islands, and passed Sanderson's
 Hope yesterday evening.
    " Our latitude, by account, to-day at noon, was 73. 10. N.                     j
 Isabella's 73. 15. long. 57. 14. W.       Some of the Esquimaux
from these islands were, I understand, on board the Isabella to
 day, and report, that the place in which we now are has been
clear of ice during the whole winter        this possible
                                               (is            that no
                                                                    ?)
                                                                    ;
whales have been here during the whole season and that they     ;
think there      plenty of clear water to the northward.
                   is                                          If this
be true,   it  delightful intelligence for us. As far as we can our
                is
selves see, there      no reason to question the accuracy of this
                           is
statement    for though the number of bergs
              ;                                   here, as at Riskoll,
                                                       is
and at Waygatt Island, and Black Hook, almost beyotnd con
ception or belief, the field-ice appears to be             by
                                                   no means so close
as to stop our progress.      How long this fair prospect may con
tinue,   it   impossible to judge; but the voyage begins to ac
              is
quire extreme interest, and all are anxiously looking out to the
north.
  "   P. S. — July 6. — have just measured the height of an ice
                                I
                                                                                       '
berg, which        is   123 feet and   a half, and
                                                 it    aground
                                                      is         125 fa-
                                                                    in
thorns !This         is   literally a small one compared with some hun-             .
                                       P   3                       dreds

  230                  Mammoth Cave         of Indiana.
 dreds that we have seen. Feet above water, and fathoms under,
 seem to be the general run of their specific gravity."
                     " His Majesty's ship Isabella, at sea, Int. 75. 25.
                                 long. 67. 7. variation 83. 48. — July 25.
      " Dear   D    , This is our last opportunity this year, there
 fore I could not let it pass without writing, although nothing
 has passed since my last.    We are now to the northward of all
 the ships that are fishing; we see s'ome a long way a-stern ; the
 boat with dispatches is going immediately to one of them ; they
 have followed a great way this year, and have been very kind
 in giving us every assistance when in the ice. I sincerely wish
 them all safe back ; they have a long way to go through the ice.
 The coast begins to look more and more miserable ; as we get
 north, it has more the appearance of a chain of ice mountains
 than land ; the sea is one solid field of ice as far as the eye can
 reach.    When the wind blows from the north, we find narrow
 passages in   it,and through them we pass ©n         sometimes the
                                                          :
 whole of our men are on the ice, dragging the ship along the
 edge of the flaws. From the verv great variation, we cannot be
 a. great way from the magnetic pole      you will see the variation
                                            ;
 by  our last observation on the ice at the head of the letter."
                      MAMMOTH CAVE OF INDIANA.
     The Kentucky Commentator contains               a  letter from    a Mr.
 Adams, giving an account of         a   cave which he had explored in
 ladaar.a. The Editor of the Commentator,                  his introduction
                                                          in
•to t)"ie letter,
                  says, this cave
                                    "  has never yet been fully explored,
J^'jugh     several  individuals,   whose    testimony    isto be relied on,
T.iave penetrated      from  six  to  nine  miles  into  this subterraneous
 region."
      Mr. Adams states that the         situated in the north-west
                                     cave   is
 quarter of section 27, in Township No.       of the second eastern
                                                 3
 range in the district of lands offered for sale at Jeffersonville.
 It was first discovered about eleven years ago, at which time the
 bottom of the cave was covered with salts from six to nine inches
 deep the sides were also coated in the same manner, and had
        ;
 the appearance of snow.
    The hill in which the cave     situated
                                     is        400 feet high, the
                                                     is
 top principally covered with oak and chesnut.
                                                   The entrance              is
 about half way from the base to the summit, and the surface of
 the cave preserves about that elevation.
    The entrance      by an aperture of 12 or 15 feet wide, and
                     is
 three or four feet in height with an easy descent, you enter
                                 :                                           a
 room which continues     quarter of
                           a           mile, varying in height from
                                            a
 8  to 30 feet, and   breadth from 10 to 20; the roof arched in
                      in
 some places, resembling an inside view of the roof     house. At
                                                               a
                                                                 the

             Preparation of Hydrosulphurate                   of Iron.              231
 the extremity of this room the cave forks, the right soon termi
 nates, the left rises by a flight of rocky stairs, nearly ten feet high,
into another story, and has a S.E. direction.           In this room the
roof has a regular arch from 5 to 8 feet high, and from 7 to 12
feet wide, which continues to what is called the Creeping Place,
 where it becomes necessary to crawl 10 or 12 feet to get into
 the next room, from which to the distance of one mile and a
quarter, there are many large and small rooms, variously situ
 ated.   At the end of this journey, a stately white pillar presents
itself, which   is about 15 feet in diameter, and from 20 to 30 in
height, regularly reeded from top to bottom.          In the vicinity are
several other smaller pillars of the same description.         Mr. Adams
was not certain what were the constituents of their columns, but
lime appeared to be the base.           Major Warren states that they
 are the satin spar.
    TRe cave abounds in sulphate of magnesia or Epsom salts,
which is found in a great variety of forms, and different stages
of formation — sometimes in lumps from 1 to 10 pounds, from
the surface to three feet below          — the walls are covered with
                                       it,
the same article.        Mr. Adams removed from spot in the cave
                                                              a
every vestige    of salt, and in four or five weeks the place was co
vered with small needle-shaped crystals resembling frost.
    The quality of salts  is   very superior — the worst earth yielding;
four pounds to the bushel, and the best from 20 to 25 pounds.
    The cave also contains great quantities of nitrate of lime or salt
petre earth; nitrate of alumina, or nitrate of argil, each yielding
an equal quantity of saltpetre.       The sulphate of lime       seen va is
riously formed, ponderous crystallized,      soft, or light  and  spongy            j
there are also vestiges of the sulphate of iron, and small speci
mens of the carbonate and nitrate of magnesia.              The rocks in
the cave are principally of carbonate of lime or common lime
stone.
   Mr. Adams closes his letter by stating, that near the forks of
the cave are two specimens of painting, probably of Indian origin.
One appears to be a Savage with something like a bow in his
hand, and furnishes the hint, that          was done when that instru
                                            it
ment of death was in use.         The other     so much defaced that it
                                                  is
is impossible to say what      it was intended to represent.
  PREPARATION     OF    HYDROSULPHURATE                OF IRON.              BY PRO
                   FESSOR      TURTE    OF       BERLIN*.
     Wishing in one of my lessons to demonstrate the decompo
      ">
sition of water    by
                    sulphur and iron,      had in due proportions
                                                 I
(25  and  15) mixed  the  filings of very fine wrought iron with
. -                 * Kastner's Pharmacie,        p.   201.        '.    J
                                    P   4                                    pulveredzi

232               Preparation      of Hydrosulphurate of Iron.
pulverized               by the help of water made a paste of this
              sulphur, and
mixture.    At the end  of  twenty minutes it became so sensibly
hot, that the vessel containing it could not be held in the hand;
and twenty minutes later it had formed itself into black sulphu-
ret of iron. I then set a portion of it apart, and having poured
muriatic acid upon           it,
                         abundance of very pure sulphuretted hy
drogen gas   was liberated.     put the remainder into a bottle,
                                     I
where  it remained  for many months, at the end of which     had         it
not suffered any change, but yielded on the application of acids
the same quantity of sulphuretted hydrogen gas."
Hemarks on the above, communicated             Professor Van Mons.
                                                      ly
    M. Turte has had the candour to ackaowledge that hydrosul-
phuret of iron or sulphuret of iron              by
                                         liquid process was obtained
before him,       by
                  Black.
   The perfect resemblance of this sulphuret to the suboxide of
iron obtained       a similar process, having led me to suspect that
                       by
it might consist in this suboxide mixed with sulphur, and that
the hydrogen might through the medium of the sulphur proceed
from the second oxidation of the iron,       mixed well,
                                                      I       the adby
dition of    little water, five parts of sulphur with eleven equal
             a
parts of black suboxide of iron      and on the half of this mixture
                                             ;
I  poured some weakened muriatic acid.        Not    single bubble of
                                                           a
sulphuretted hydrogen gas was disengaged, and the mixture was
not in the least degree heated.            added to the remaining half
                                                 I
eight parts of fine iron filings, and enough of water to reduce it.
into paste. The mass heated, and after had cooled     I          it
                                                                again          by
plunging      into cold water,
             it                      yielded copiously sulphuretted
                                        it                                    hy
drogen, but only after the oxide was dissolved.          The constituents
of this compound are 25 of iron, 16 of sulphur, and 8-5 of water,
or 32•5 of suboxide of iron, and 16 of sulphuretted hydrogen.
   When solutions of submuriate of iron and of oxalate of am
monia are united, and the mixture exposed to the direct action
of the sun,       forms
                  it        first muriate and carbonated muriate of
                             a
ammonia, and emits carbonic gas. The mixture contains pre
cisely the elements and the proportions of elements for these
products.   One half of the chlorate of corrosive sublimate passes
to the carbonic oxide of the oxalic acid             whence there result
                                                       ;
mercury   and   phosgenic acid,     which   with the  ammonia forms the
carbonated muriate of that alkali; and the second element of
the oxalic acid, which       cafbonic acidj
                              is                 liberated.
                                                      is       Itof con
                                                                    is
sequence here, as well as         the direct.formation, that the phos
                                   in
genic acid be assisted by the directheat of the sun.
 I   have almost forgot to observe, that according to Thenard,
the azote which        separated from the atmosphere
                        is                                    the aid of
                                                               by
sulphuret  of  iron liquefied,     different from that which
                                    is                          extract
                                                                    is
ed from sulphur.                                                     air

                       Air-tiglit   Vessel. — Serpents.                233
                             AIR-TIGHT VESSEL.
                               To  Mr.   Tilloch.
      Sir, — Being    but just returned from a journey through South
  Wales, I have had no opportunity of seeing the last number of your
   Magazine for April, in which my paper on the Extinction of Fires
  appears.     Speaking of this paper you say :
                                                       " The author also
  suggests that ships might be rendered more buoyant by making
  them air-tight, and forcing in air by means of an air-pump,
'
  which would elevate them to a higher level in the water, and
  consequently might sometimes save them when they have got
  upon a bank."
     Now by this you appear to have quite misunderstood me, for
  which reason I shall feel obliged if you will have the goodness in
  your next to state, that the object of my plan was to keep a ship
  afloat that would otherwise very soon sink, by confining the air
  she then has within her, or if necessary injecting more ; by which
  means the influx of water -would be stopped, and the ship, car
  go, and many valuable lives might be saved. I am, &c.
     Bristol, 25th May.                                  JOHN MoORE.
     P.S. For burnt lime read lime, in the last line of page 287.
                                  SERPENTS.
     The following memoir on the subject of the fascinating power
  of serpents, by Major Alexander Garden, of South Carolina, was
  read at a meeting of the New York Historical Society in Sep
  tember last.
     " He attributed       the phaenomenon to an effluvium which the
  serpent voluntarily    exhales  at those times when it feds the desire
  of food,   and  the effluvium  is of so deleterious a nature as to cause
  convulsions in the smaller and more sensitive animals, such as
  birds, mice, &c.      He mentioned several instances in which men
  had been powerfully affected by this effluvium.           He had been
  informed by the late Col. Thompson, of Belleville, that whilst
  riding over his estate, he came to a snake of enormous size, at
  which, the moment he could sufficiently collect himself, he fired.
  He killed the reptile, but was at the same instant assailed by an
  overpowering vapour, which 6o bewildered him that he could
  scarcely guide his horse home— that a deadly sickness at the
  stomach ensued, and a puking more violent than he had ever ex
  perienced from an emetic.           He had been told by a lady, that
  the overseer of one of her plantations being missed, was sought
  for by his family, and found in a state of insensibility.        On re
  covering, he stated that he was watching for a deer, when he
  heard the rattle of a snake, and that before he could remove
  from the threatened danger, he perceived a sickening effluvium,
                                                                    which

 °
234                   Cast-iron Bridge. — Lectures.
which deprived him instantly of      sense.    From John Lloyd, Esq.
he had learned another case: — A negro working in his field was
seen suddenly to fall, uttering a shriek ; on approaching him, it
was found that he had struck off the head of a very large rattle
snake, the body of which was still writhing.         On recovering, he
said that he   had  shrieked   with horror  on  discovering the snake,
and at the same instant had been overpowered by a smell that
took away all his senses.      Mr. Nathaniel Barnwell had a negro,
who could, from the acuteness of his smell, at all times discover
the rattle-snake within a distance of 200 feet, when in the exer
cise of his fascinating power, and when traced by this sense, some
obj ?ct of prey was always found suffering from this influence. To
these facts Major Garden added some anecdotes collected from
Vaillant's travels and other sources, corroborating his theory.
When gorged with food the serpent is supine.            It is only when
under the stimulus of hunger that he exerts this fascinating fa
culty.
                          CAST-IRON   BRIDGE.
   It is proposed to erect a stupendous bridge over the river Forth,
at . Queensferry, the line of which is to begin at high-water
mark, near Newhall's Inn, and is to traverse the island of Garvie,
at a point, and terminate at the battery rock on the north shore.
The length of the bridge will be one furlong, and its height
ninety feet above the stream tide.       It is to be of cast iron, upon
the principle of suspension.
                               LECTURES.
   Medical School     of St.  Thomas's and Guy's Hospitals. — The
usual Lectures at these adjoining Hospitals, which commence the
2d of October, will be given as follows ; viz.
   At St. Thomas's. — Anatomy and the Operations of Surgery,
by Mr. Astley Cooper and Mr. Henry Clinc — Principles and
Practice of Surgery, by Mr. Astley Cooper.
   At Guy's. — Practice of Medicine, by Dr. Curry and Dr.
Cholmeley. — Chemistry,         by Dr. Marcet and Mr. Allen. —
Experimental Philosophy, by Mr. Allen. — Theory of Medicine,
and Materia Medica, by Dr. Curry and Dr. Cholmeley. — Mid
wifery, and Diseases of Women and Children, by Dr.Haighton.
—Physiology, or Laws of the Animal (Economy, by Dr. Haighton
and Dr. Blundell. — Structure and Diseases of the Teeth, by Mr.
Bell. — A Course of Clinical Lectures will be given in the Winter
by Dr. Marcet: — And a Course of Practical Botany in the Spring,
by Mr. Salisbury, of the Botanic Garden, Chelsea.
   N. B. These several Lectures, with those on Anatomy, and on
the Principles and Practice of Surgery, given at the Theatre of
                                                                     St.

                          Lectures. — Patents.                 235
 St. Thomas's Hospital adjoining, are so arranged, as not to in
 terfere with each other in the hours of attendance, nor with the
 Medical or Surgical Practice of the Hospital: and the whole is
calculated to form   " A complete Course of Medical and Chirur-
gical Instruction."     Terms and other Particulars my be learnt
from Mr. Stocker, Apothecary to Guy's Hospital ; who alone is
empowered to receive entrance money from Pupils, for any of
 these Lectures delivered at Guy's Hospital.
            LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
    To Thomas Machell, of Great Ryder-street, in the parish of
Saint James Westminster, in the eounty of Middlesex, surgeon,
for his improved method of applying for medicinal purposes, the
agency of atmospheric air, liquid or gaseous substances to the
 external surface, and to some of the internal cavities and pas
sages of the human body, and for the more convenient and useful
mode of employing oil and spirits on similar principles in lamps
and other luminous apparatus. — 24th August, 1818. — 6 months
allowed to enroll specification.
    To John Bennett, of Manchester, in the county palatine of
 Lancaster, shopkeeper, for his certain improvements in filtering
vessels, and in the filtering medium thereof. — 31st August.— -6.
months.
    To Joseph Bowyer, of Kidderminster, in the county of Wor
cester, carpet manufacturer, for his improvement in the machinery
for making Brussels and cut pile commonly called Wilton car
peting, figured rugs, and imperial rugs.— o 1st August. — 2 mo.
   •To Richard Green, of Lisle-street, Leicester-square,    in the
country of Middlesex, sadlers' ironmonger, for his improvement
upon the spring billet for harness, and the application thereof to
bridles, heads and reins, bits, sword belts, gun-springs and other
purposes. — 31st August. — 2 months.
    To William Salisbury, of Brompton, in the county of Middle
sex, botanist, for a machine or implement for the purpose of pre
paring hemp, flax, and other vegetable fibrous substances, partly
communicated to him by a foreigner in the service of His Im
perial Majesty the Emperor of Russia, and partly of his own in
vention.-— 31st August. — 6 months.
    To Frederick Dizi, of Crabtree, in the parish of Fulham and
county of Middlesex, for his discovered improvement in musical
wind instruments of certain descriptions. — 31st August.— r6 mo.
    To Henfy Stubbs, of Saint James's-street, in the parish of
 Saint James and county of Middlesex, blind manufacturer, for
his moveable heel for boots, shoes, and other purposes. — 7th
•Sept.— 6 mo. -
                                                        METEORO

                                  [    236     ]
                              METEOROLOGY.
   Observations at      Augslurgh, July 30.               By Professor   Stark.
   According to the observation of the Rev. Mr. Stark, at thirty-
nine minutes past 3 P.M. of yesterday, Reaumur's thermometer
was in the shade at 25°-j*o-) and o»e exposed to the sun 35° ^ ;
at the same time Saussure's hygrometer indicated the highest
degree of dryness or zero, and the manometer the greatest poro
sity (Lockerheit's) of the air lO0-^ French grains.       The heat di
minished only one degree till forty-three minutes past four.       The
positive electricity of  the air was still increasing and  had reached
to 16°; the negative had remained for several days at zero.
The evaporation of the water in the atmometer amounted to
7-jSJg. Paris lines from a Paris square foot in twenty-four      hours
from the preceding day, when the thermometer was at 33°| in
the sun, and at 24W in the shade, till 4 o'clock P.M.             After
two thunder storms      that passed  off   at a distance, followed by
rain yesterday evening, — this morning, and at noon, the hygro
meter showed at half past two the greatest moisture or 100°,
after having been only twenty-three hours before at zero, in the
greatest degree of drvness.
   A   Meteor. — Mr. Hall, Professor of Natural Philosophy in
Middlebury College, United States, has published a scientific ac
count of a meteor, of uncommon magnitude and brilliancy, seen
in that vicinity on the evening of the 17th of June. To some,
he informs us, the diameter appeared as large as the full moon
at rising ; but to others, not more than half as large.    While in
the heavens, it appeared to emit sparks ; and some of the be
holders of it say, it exploded three times with a noise like heavy
 thunder, or, as some represent          it, like three distinct discharges
 of cannon in quick succession.              It had the appearance of iron
   a a
 in furnace the instant      it   is beginning to fuse. The houses were
jarred   by   the explosion, as they are        by  aslight earthquake.     To
 one person   it  appeared    to  "roll  over"    in  the   agitation  or leap,
  (the effect of the explosion,) and to grow less after each agita
 tion, and shortly after the third disappeared.                 Many saw the
 light, who did not see the meteor. Its distance, and of course
 magnitude, have not been ascertained                ; and there was       adif
ference in the computation of the time                was visible.
                                                     it               One per
 son thinks   it  was fifteen minutes after having seen the agitation,
 before he heard the reports which,,
                                  ;            ifcorrect, would have placed
 the meteor two hundred miles distant.                   Sound passes about
thirteen miles in minute.
                    a                But meteors have been seen to move
at the rate of one thousand miles in a minute.
     The Professor  is    anxious to ascertain       if any stones were pro
jected    from   this  meteor;     and  hopes    to  hear  something on the
 subject   from  his  friends  in  the eastern    part of Vermont, or New
 Hampshire, in which direction         it passed.

                               Mtleorology.                          237
Meteorological Journal kept at Walthamstow, Essex, from
                   August 15 to September 15, 1818.
[Usually between the Hours of Seven and Nine A.M. and the Thermometer
             (a second time) between Twelve and Two P.M.J
Bate. Therm. Barom. Wind.
August
15    57     30-10    N.NW.— Cloudy & windy;         distant hills hazy;
      67                 wind, clouds, & gleams of sun j cloudy night.
16    58     30-10    N. — Wind, cumuli, and clear; very fine day ;
      72                 stars and some cirrocumuli.      Full moon.
17     56    30-10    N.— Graymorn; fine day, veryhot; 6 P.M.
      76                 some drops of rain ; clouds, clear, and cumuli.
18    52     29-99    NW— W. — Fine sunshine, and some stratus;
       72                fine hot day, and some wind; clear night.
 19    52    29-95    N.NW— W.— Clear and windy; a few cumuli
       67                NW ; cumuli, wind, and some sun ; about
                         7 P.M. part of a rainbow, but not any rain ;
                         cloudy and windy.
20     53    30-00    NW.— Gray and windy; fine day; not much
           '
       65                sunshine   ; stars and cumuli.
21     50    30-00    NW— N.— Sun          and wind, and cirrosiralus ;
       70                fine day; about 7 P.M. beautiful cirrocumuli;
                         night cloudy, and drops of rain.
22     5 1   30-00    NW         Sun and cirrostratus, and a strong
       66                dew; very fine day; bright star-light.
 23    52    30-20    NW— N.— Fine sun, and wind ; very fine day;
       67                dark night.     Moon last quarter.
24     58    30-15     NW—SW—NW.— Gray and windy; fine day;
       69                stars and thin cirrostratus.
25     55    30•10    NW. — W. — Clear, sun, and cirrostratus ; fine
       70                day; cumuli, cl«ar and windy ; dark night.
26     51    30'00    SW—W.— Fine morn; sun and clouds; clouds
       66                and -sun ; fine dav ; night dark and windy.
27     56    29-S0.   W—S.— Gray, and some wind; at 10 A.M. a
       66                shower; gleams of sun, and wind; rain from
                         about 2 P.M. to 7 P.M.; dark and hazy.
•28    6 1   29-64    W— N W Cloudy and windy; sun and wind ;
       70                fine day, and verv hot; bright star-light.
29     57    29-90    S— NW.— Sup early; hazy; fine day; very
                          hot ; cloudy night.
30     64    29-90    W— NW. — Sun, and cirrostratus; set rain
       70                 about 7 A.M.; fine day; sun and wind, and
                 i        very warm ; fine orange sunset ; stars, but
                          not very bright.
 31    49    30-00     S.— Fme clear morn, but some stratus near
        72                the horizon; very fine hot day; clear star
                          light night. New moon.               September

238                           Meteorology.
Date. Therm. Barom. Wind.
September
  1   63     29-60   S—SW.— Slight rain; hot, cloudy and windy;
       73               fine day; S P.M. drops of rain; 9 P.M.
                        cloudy and windy; 1 1P.M. bright star-light.
 2    56     29-80    SW — NW. — Clear high, and a strong dew and
      70                haze low ; very fine day; star-light and windy.
 3    59     30-00    SW. — Hazy morn ; fineday; hot; dark, windy,
       71               and hot.
 4     65    29-95   S W. — Some rain, and windy ; sun and clouds ;
      74                very hot day; fine day; some drops of rain;
                        dark and windv; rain in the night.
 5    65     29-95    SW—SE.— Cloudy and hazy; 9{ A.M. a
      67                shower, and rain continued till about 3 P.M.;
                        then fine till after dark ; rainy evening.
 «    56     29-70   SE— NW— SW.— Rainy till about 10 A.M.;
      67                fine day; sunshine; bright star-light, and
                        some wind.
 7    53     29-80   W— NW. — Clear and clouds ; fin« day, wind
      66                and sun; clear star-light; aurora lorealis.
                        Moon first quarter.     •
 8    49     29-90   W—SW—SE— N—S.— Fine clear sky, and
      64               cirrus; fine day; sun; clouds; slight rain at
                       3 P.M.; at 5 P.M. dark nimbus and distant
                       thunder, and slight rain ; dark night early;
                        1 1 P.M. some stars and aurora borealis,
 9    48    29-70    N NW. — Very fine and clear, and cirrus; fine
                        —
      65               day; some set rain after 3 P.M. ; star-light.
10    49    29-80    N — NW. — Clear, cirrostratus, and wind; sun
      61                and wind ; fine day ; cloudy night.
11    45    29-82    NW— W. — Perfect clear calm morning; fine
      61               day; some wind; clear stars, and some cir-
                       rocumuli.
12    48    29-95    W — NW. — Clear and windy; fineday; some
    ° 64               drops  of rain;  stars, moon, cirrocumuli, and
                       wind.
13    52    30-15    NW. — Cumuli, clear, and wind; fine day;
      66               moon- and star-light.
14    49    30-20    S — SW. — Hazy ; some sun ; cloudy day, but
      64               some sun ; windy ; cloudy night.     Full moon.
13    59    29-90    SW. — Gray and windy; sun and clouds; raja
      68               about 2 P.M. till after 5, and then again a
                       hard shower ; cloudy night.
  Errata in last month's Magazine :
  23d July, far Barometer 72 at 10 P.M. read Thermometer 72 at 10 P.M.,
W&,for 24th August read 24th July.
                                                            MBTBORO-

                              Meteorology.                             239
           METEOROLOGICAL        JOURNAL KEPT AT         BOSTON,
                             LINCOLNSHIRE.
      [The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at 1 P.M.]
           Age o
    1818     the Thermo    Baro     State of the Weather and Modification,
           Moon   meter.   meter.              of the Clouds.
           DAYS
Aug.    16  full   65-5    30-15    Cloudy
        17   15    68•     30-11    Gloudy  — rain P.M. ;
        18   16    64-5    30-05    Ditto — rain A.M. -
        10   17    64-     30-10    Ditto
        2O   18   62-      30-15    Ditto
       2I    10   62-      30-14    Ditto — rain in the evening
       22   90    60-      30-16    Ditto
  ,    23   21    64•      30-20    Fine
       24   22    61-      30-21    Cloudy
       25   93    63-5     30-14    Ditto
       96 24      63-      30-01    Ditto — rain in the evening
       S.7  25    6Y5-     29-79   Ditto
       28   26    63-5     29-71   Ditto
      .20   27    74-      30-02   Fine
       30   28    66-5     29•88   Ditto
       31 new     67•5     30-02   Ditto
Sept.    1     1  75-5     29-53   Ditto — showery in the morning
         2    2   71'      29-86   Ditto
         3    3   70-      30-09   Ditto— rain at night
         4    4   74-5     29-96   Ditto           do.
         5    5   60-5    30-01             —
                                   Cloudy heavy rain at night
         6    6   69-      29-79   Fine
         7    7   62-      29-93   Cloudy
         8    8'  58-      29-99   Ditto"
         9    9   56-      29-77   Rain
       10   10    55-      29'86   Fine
       11   11    56-     20-90    Ditto
       12   12    59-5    30-03    Cloudy
       13   13    63-     30-32    Ditto — rain in the morning
       14   14    66-     30- 15   Ditto           do.         evening
                                                               MKTBORO

240                                                    Meteorology.
                                            METEOROLOGICAL                                  TABLE,
                                 By Mr. Cary, of the Strand,
                                                     For September 1818.
                         Thermometer.
                                                                                            p'-i -
                                                                                            Co"
                                                                           Height of
 Days of                                                                                    c M
                                                       o'Clock,
                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                               Weather.
                      o'Clock,
                                 Morning.
                                                                           the Barom.
 Month.
                                             Noon.                Night.    Inches.
                      5                               33
August 27             60                    63        60                   29-77               0       Rain
          28          61                    67        61                      .90             62       Fair
          29          62                    76        62                   30.01              66       Fair
          30          60                    75        59                   29.93              60       Fair
          31          58                    69        63                       •99            78       Fair
  Sept.    1          67                    73        60                       .55            56       Fail-
                      63                    70        64                       •90            57       Fair
          6 5 4 3 2
                      60                    70        66                       •99            60       Fair
                      65                    75        60                   30-01              64       Fair
                      60                    60        58                   29•90               0       Rain
                      58                    66        58                       •86            47       Showery
                      57                    64        55                   •
                                                                               '90            52       Fair [the evening
          9 8 7
                      56                    64        55                       •90            47       Fair, thunder in
                      50                    60        49                       •64            49       Cloudy-
      10              50                    58        50                       •90            56       Fair
      11              51                    59        5©                       •92            49       Fair
          12          50                    57        51                       •96            47       Fair
      13              52                    60        55                   30-08              49       Fair
      14              54                    65        56                       •16            45       Fair               [night
      15              55                    65        58                   29•96              46       Cloudy,       rain     at
      16              56                    66        48                       •67            48       Showery
      17              46                    59        50                   30-12              47       Fair
      18              50                    60        58                       •05                     Rain
                                            64                                                 0 0     Small rain
      19              60                              60                   29.82
      20              59                    66        60                       •59            39       Stormy
      21              60                    66        60                       •42            30       Stormy
      22              60                    67        56                       •67            34       Cloudy
      23              58                    65        57                       •60            39       Cloudy
      24              57                    66        57                       •65            37       Cloudy
      25              58                    6'4       55                       •43            30       Cloudy, heavy rain
      26              55                    64        55                       •64            99       Fair, rain at night
                      N.B, The Barometer's height                                     is   taken at one o'clock.

                                       C
                                          241     ]
   XXXIX.         On the Question " Whether Music is necessary to the
       Orator, — to what Extent, and how most readily attamable?"
       By Henry Upjngton, Esq.
                               [Continued from p. 168.]
                                  To    Mr. Tillcch.
   Sir, —    v  X ou will no doubt perceive
                                              Blair's Hill, Cork, Sept.  16", 1818.
                                                    by the general tenor of my
   papers,   but   more    especially by   the  tenor   of my last, that I have
   aimed at little more than a comprehensive outline of my sub
  ject; and have therefore left to the good sense and discernment
   of my readers the supplying of several deficiencies which my dis
   inclination for detail has unavoidably occasioned.               Thus for ex
   ample, in place of chiefly ascribing to the successively descending
   intervals with which our music abounds — the propensity of our
   public readers and orators to sink inaudibly through the scale at
   the termination of their periods ; I might also have adduced the
   wideness of interval, extent of scale, and usually inappropriate
   modulation when applied to speech, with which our songs and
   other musical productions so frequently conclude.                 In speaking
   too of the rhetorical cadence, 1 might have added that in several
   cases (especially when not preceded by a pause) this cadence is
   less distinctively marked than in others.             I might also have qua
   lified my assertion that " the ultimate falling syllables of -an an
   cient period could never have exceeded two," by stating the pro
   bable exception in the Roman language, of a terminating mono
   syllable when preceded by a word of three or more syllables
   whose accent is seated on the antepenult: but, as 1 have already
   said, these and several other matters of detail have been inten
   tionally left to the good sense and discernment of the reader.
       To proceed then with my inquiry. A taste manifestly vicious
   in the extreme having for some time publicly appeared among
   the propagators of novelty in this kingdom, who in addition to
   the hideous extension of certain syllables, and the inarticulate
   crowding of others — would fain violate all the chasteuess of lan
   guage by the introduction of a periodical thump, the necessary
   consequence of executing any passage by the beat of time, con
                                                       * ;
   formably to our present mode of barring                  my attention was, if
   possible,    more    carefully  directed   to   the  analysis of this than of
   any   other   topic.   Not   satisfied therefore    with  the coinciding opi
                                                                               nion
      * The  introducers of this barring system are the real or pretended ad
   mirers of "ProsoriiaRationulis,"    whose anti-oratorical author, Joshua Steele,
   would extend our ordinary speaking scale to an octave and a half; and
   the duration of our syllables to the monstrous ratio of eight to one — while,
       Vol. 52. No. 246. Oct. 1818.                      Q                      even
9             «

242         "  Whether Music       is necessary to the   Orator,—
nion of my associate, I solicited the, conjoint operation and
opinion of several amateurs and professional musicians; by all of
whom the following observations were unhesitatingly made.
                Examination     of The Speaker        continued.
                                                                  '
                                    OF   TIME.
     Observation 1st. — Alterations of the general movement were
almost perpetual, every perceptible change of emotion producing,
though even in the same clause, a corresponding acceleration or re
tardation of delivery; while even in the most regular clause, no ap
preciable bar whatever, with the exception of an occasional ap
proximation to our |- or f, could be said in any way to exist.
Nevertheless, a triplet similar to that in " God save the King
                                                                            "
 did now and then attract our attention.
     Observation 2d. — Combinations more or less independent of
 our usual barring arrangement — and whose effect was at times
peculiarly expressive — were continually perceived. But on these
 combinations we considered ourselves too inexperienced to re
 port.
     Observation Sd. — Emphatical words, th# vowel of whose m-
phatic syllable was long by nature [this term is used for perspi
 cuity], were rather frequently marked by a moderate extension
 of those vowels ; while in the case of short vowels, similarly cir
cumstanced, scarcely any extension of these, at any time took
 place: nevertheless, in both instances a certain extension of
 prolongable consonants [not mutes] was occasionally obvious.
                  Remarks on the preceding Observations.
    The more attentively we consider the present barring system
 in its application to speech, the more numerous are the objections
 to its adoption.       Besides that periodical thump which all time-
 even in recitative, Handel is satisfied w ith four to one, and for the most
 part with half this ratio. Let us take the very first example which occurs
•m Steele's book, as a specimen of his taste, and conception of rhythmus.
    [In executing this passage let the experimenter lake care that he not only
       beats the time, but allots the assigned duration to every individual
       syllable.]
                      1          — -   C          e        •
                                                                       ©
          Oh
                      f
                happi-uess             our  1  bemg's   end  a id     aim
       =    8     3 1    2  2     4     4   1   4 4       6    I       8
   Caesar's remark on the sing-song speaker may be justly applied to Mr.
 Steele:   If this be singing, it is singing very badly. Some trifling ballad
 may possibly present one or two accidental lines to which, if expression be
 not required, this time-beating process may somewhat closely be applied ;
 — but   who would covet the execution at so great a sacrifice
                                                                     beating

       to what   Extent, and hoiv most readily altainalle ?"            243
                                                  —
beating by forte must inevitably produce ; besides that horrific
 extension and inarticulate contraction of syllables so inappropriate
to oratory, which must consequently follow ; — besides the im
possibility^ under regular time, of expressing our emotions by the
 immediate transitions from quick to slow and from slow to quick,
to which we are instinctively prompted by those emotions*; —
 besides these and many other objections which may be urged
with regard to speech — is not the musician himself aware, that
 in proportion as he mechanically adheres to the exact execution
 of his musical time, even in song —in that proportion must he
 necessarily fall short of the admirable expression which distin
 guishes the celebrated solo singer from the grosser performer ?
     In recitative (the design of which is the imitation of speech),,
 how much more the latitude ! The performer must be heard;
  and whenever superior energy and expression are intended,, he
 must conform in a striking degree to the irregular dimensions of
 our syllables, articulating, with requisite length, a considerable
  number, which the composer, for the preservation of imaginary
 time, has represented as very short; and shortening a number
 of those, especially the particles, which the composer may have
 represented too longf.         The performer must also, on several
  occasions, extend for the sake of expression certain notes to
 which too limited duration had been assigned ; and he must con
 sequently shorten others.       He must likewise constantly surpass
 his bars by syncopation: he must considerably derange that order
 of emphasis which the habitual character of our song prescribes:
 he must constantly pause where the sense requires; and disregard
 imaginary rests : in fine — to excel in recitative, he must unlearn,
 and with no small share of difficulty, all his previously contracted
 time-beating habits, adopting every method which art or nature
may suggest, for the annihilation of his bars, and the attainment
 of more appropriate expression.
     Against all these objections the advocates of barring will plead,
and apparently with reason, the necessity of some certain basis
for the establishment of regular proportion, from which the per
former may afterwards more or less depart, as fancy regulated by
general usage shall invite him.          Now with these advocates I
should probably agree as to the utility of barring, [not in their
way by constantly commencing forte,] were recitative not speech
the ultimate object : but with regard to speech, whose latitude
    * The ancients, whose taste in
                                   every thins; that related to oratory was
conspicuous, were particularly attentive to these transitions.   Quiutilian,
in the 3d chap, of the xith book of his Institutes, points them out to the
orator as indispensably connected with expression.
   t Handel himself, in that superior passage which I have so often quoted,
has marked equally with a semiquaver the words a, the, I,plung'dj Hozo.
                                    Q 2                          compared

244        " Whether Music                   is necessary to the         Orator,—
compared with recitative is undoubtedly greater than that of re
citative compared with song, is there not a more simple and less
objectionable method of cultivating proportion, by which the
speaker shall neither misspend his valuable hours in learning the
mechanical operation of beating our various species of time ;
nor acquire, in the remotest degree, any habit that shall endan
ger his delivery and cost him much subsequent trouble to re
move ?
    To this simple method our attention will speedily be directed.
But although it were ever so necessary, and even practicable, for
the orator to improve himself by speaking in barred productions —
where, as I already observed, is the master capable of composing
and teaching them ?        In what species of time, £               or even -§-,   £,
separately   or mixed,    shall  they  be  written       And    although
                                                                 ?           this
question  which   appears   unanswerable      should    be  solved —  shall   the
orator even then sacrifice his own, and in          all  probability superior
ideas of beauty, to the ultimate setting of              Joshua Steele?
                                                                 a
    The total impracticability, however, of executing speech, even
with tolerable accuracy, in any species of musical time,                  in my         is
opinion   self-evident.     Nothing    for  the  ascertainment      of  this fact
has on my part,     or  on  that  of  my   associate       and  other    musical
assistants, been left undone.          Various passages were selected,
 and all equally failed.     At length we confined ourselves to that
 passage which Joshua Steele had intentionally chosen in
                                                                        the out
set  of his work   as  the foundation    of  his  theory,
                                                             "  Oh  happiness,
 &c." and which have already given as set
                         I                                           by
                                                            that fanciful gen
 tleman. This passage        was   separately   taken     up       each indiviby
 dual, and set in that form which          in  his opinion     was   most ana
 logous to the delivery of our chastest speakers, and              at  the same
 time consonant, as much as possible, with musical usage
                                                                             — all            :
these settings were compared            and after mature discussion, the
                                                 ;
following was preferred                  :
                                                                     "s    — »¦         4.
                  '"US
                                                        k
                                             T
             7s                                              <             /
               <• )h happiness                   our being's         end and aim.
                           111                                       8 2
                                                 8 2   8 2
                  3                          1               1              1
                    12     4.   4;   4       4               4              4
                                                                                                  the
      The exact musical execution of this piece now followed                                  :
                                                           of every
 time was regularly beat, and the relative proportion
                                                     the result was
 note observed as systematically as in  concert  but                 :
 intolerable — was any thing hut speech.
                      it
    A reader of the superior order attended our consultation. He
              :
 slowly recited the passage.   Some trifling defects were observed,
 especially in the execution of the last word, which by over-ex
                                                                line
  tension produced too much the effect of an independent
                                                                                             without

       to what   Extent, and how mosi readily attainable?"          245
without reference to the succeeding.         These defects were re
medied : the passage was practised, and finally delivered, as well
as the human ear could estimate so irregular a combination, in
the following proportions, the rhythmical divisions or bars being
exactly ascertained by viewing an adjusted pendulum which vi
brated seventy-two times in a minute.        The recital of the six di
visions occupied precisely five seconds of time, or six vibrations.
       Oh              ss — our     beingj's  end — land  aim
             hjappine
         12  .4   3 5                6 6   1  9   3
   This unavoidable irregularity of proportion in syllables, — espe
cially the short ones, which consistently with the character of
language can neither be contracted nor extended, but in a very
limited degree —was equally acknowledged by the ancients;
Dionysius of Halicarnassus having supplied us in this respect with
an interesting document unknown to the generality of our best
informed.     This intelligent critic, in the xvth section of his ce
lebrated work on language, has the following passage ; which
proves to our satisfaction that the Greeks themselves, who pos
sessed the most regular language ever formed by man, never en
tertained the chimerical notion of reciting even their poetry in
any thing like accurate time or quantity.         This passage being
rather long, I shall give it a summary translation.
    " It must be confessed," says Dionysius, " that the syllable
is short which consists of a short vowel, suppose o in oio;. Pre
fix to this the semivowel p as po'So;, and the syllable remains
short — not however in the same manner, as it will have a certain
minute addition of time more thpn the former.         Prefix again the
mute t, as Tgoiros : this syllable will then be greater than the for
mer syllables, and yet it remains short. Prefix a third letter, as
0-tqoQ.o; : and by these three audible additions it becomes still
longer.     The same with our long syllables : tj if increased by the
addition of four letters, as in a-5rA>jv. would certainly be rendered
greater than when it consisted of tjie single letter.       It is suffi
cient to say, that a short syllable differs from a short, and "a long
syllable from a long one ; and that every short has not the same
power, neither has every long, whether in prose or in poetry."
    Such was the Grecian usage — such the Roman — and such
must continue the necessary usage of this and of every other
country.
    To what purpose then, say our modern disputants, have all
the regulations of imaginary quantity been established by the
ancients? and have not these regulations contributed to bar
barize both languages, particularly the Roman ? These are the
general questions of uninformed critics, and to these I shall par-
                                 Q  3                         ticularly

246         " Wliether      Music is necessary                   to the   Orator, —
ticularly reply       (if
                     reply      may call it),
                                      I          asking them       by
                                                                  few                        a
questions in fhy turn.
    1st. Have you ever known an individual who gave himself the
trouble of reading either language by the outline of quantity                                      ?
If  not — how can you decide on the utility or inutility of those
bulwarks against innovation which Grecian taste and judgement
so industriously erected              ?
    2d. Are you aware that long quantity does not consist in the
enunciation of what      called
                             is    long vowel, but in the appropriate
                                               a
extension of syllables, which                      by
                                      the agency of vowels and pro
longable consonants    we  are  enabled  to accomplish                            ?
    3d. Are. you aware that syllables called         our countrymen     by
long, — as the last syllable in remove,— can with little practice             a
be uttered as quickly as the last syllable in remit                           ?
    4th. Can you readily pronounce with considerable extension,
the second syllable of sdlaoth* (emphasis or accent on the
first)
       — or the last syllable of your own word dedicate, without
destroying the chaste English character of these words         not—                    ?   If
 learn, for Ihave heard      frequently done.
                                   it
    5th. Do you perceive,                  by
                                 the tendency of my two last ques
tions, that ancient Iambics like doccs may and can be read in
 quantity, preserving the emphasis Or accent on the first syl
 lable f?
    6th. When you reflect onQuintilian's observation, — that in cer
 tain cases'  required some delicacy of ear to distinguish whether
                it
  *
      Mr. Walker in his Classical Pronouncing Dictionary has this extraor
dinary note on the word sabaoth.
                                         " This word should not be confounded
in its pronunciation with sabbath.       Sabaoth ought to be heard    three syl        in
lables,
        is by
            keeping the     and
                            a      separate and distinct, which
                                      o                            must be con    it
fessed     not eusy to do."     Not easy wretched must be the habits of that
                                                    !
speaker who finds      difficult.
                      it
 t    The character of this Iambus, when commanded,           wonderfully maris
tial. I   have heard the English word cohorts so uttered — first syllable short;
second very long — without any deviation from the usual vowel sounds: but
I considered      very extraordinary that when the speaker thought proper,
                 it
he could render the second syllable incomparably louder than the first,
without altering what an English ear would denominate the stressor accent.
This phsenomenon being closely investigated, the deception was discovered:
the second syllable was actually weaker than the first at its commencement;
but having terminated       ina crescendo, thus              :
                            Co    . . .   cTho     ... rts
every ear was satisfied with the imaginary execution of the accent.
By    reversing the character,            it   became incredibly soft — as thus:
                       Co       ...   ho   ...     rts            It   was more than        Italian.
                                                                                  i
                                                                                            a   long

         to what  Extent, and how most readily attainable?"              247  >
 a long syllable were really so delivered — are you not compelled
  to infer, that, agreeably to ancient practice, the naturally long
  ememphatic vowels were seldom extended equally with the long
 emphatic ones ?
      7th. Have you learned from the 14th section of Dionysius of
 Halicarnassus, that the short vowels of the ancients were not,
 like our short ones, incapable of prolongation without consti
 tuting a novel sound? — but that the narrowness or effeminacy
  [trrratovixov] of those vowels rendered them comparatively in
 eligible for extension ?
      8th. Have you ever been informed that a syllable naturally
 short, as the first in bodkin, may be considered as extended by the
 addition of that trifling interruption which is perceptible between
 the d and k; in the ratio of about 4 to 3 : or in other words,
 that this interruption or rest may, in the case of syllables equally
 short with hod, be accounted equivalent to the one-third of every
 such syllable ? — and do you not imagine that on several occa
sions a delicate extension of the vowel itself*, as well as of pro
 longable consonants, did likewise take place, for the additional
assistance of the rhythmus ?
      9th. Do you imagine that in reading the Classics, or even in
speaking your own language, you ever iterate (in the same word)
 an immediately preceding consonant, as the dm goddess? And
yet that it can be sounded, you must»acknowledge by attending
to your own pronunciation of the two d's in bad_day, good day,
&c. You may possibly allege that such mode of pronunciation—
requiring as it does the distinct delivery of every written charac
ter, and which would clearly and strongly articulate even the
second syllable in imperfection or tolerate — must have rendered
the Classical languages much slower than our own.                 I grant it.
But will you insist that our speaking more slowly and intelligibly
than we do, could render us more imperfect as orators, or lessen
our dignity as a nation ?
                                          I
     * Io reading the ancient languages, do not argue for any unnecessary
innovation in our present manner of sounding all kinds of vowels, when
metreis not in question. It is judicious, in my opinion, to conform in every
possible manner to the usage of our native tongue; hut certainly, if an
ancient Greek had proposed the abolition of his noblest vowel *x.pa, and
the substitution of our narrow ee for his open 5t«,   I should compare him,
and deservedly, to a musician who having in his possession five different
bells, should demolish the noblest, and choke the second for the im
provement of his melody.       But with respect to our rhythmus ; why not
substitute the long vowel sound fer that of the short in all position cases
where the ear shall actually require such substitution? And would not the
 consequent melody which such reading would produce, materially influence
our national elocution ? Thus would the ancient Hexameter be restored to
its original sublimity, and the metre of Horace, while sufficiently rough, be
no longer stigmatized by the illiterate as the jargon of a Hottentot.
                                      Q4                               10th.

248          " Whether    Music is necessary      to the  Orator,—'
     10th.   In reading both the Greek and Latin languages, (but
especially the latter,) do you regularly attend to the due exten
sion; or in your own phraseology, do you give the long sound
 to all those vowels which are by nature long, regardless of their
 nominal length by position)? And are you certain that the Grecian
 language with respect to its emphatic syllables (especially in its
 poetry, to which almost every license was extended) is regulated
 like the Roman * ?
     These are the great outlines of time or quantity (as well as
 forte), without the understanding and observance of which it is
 in my mind an impossibility to form an adequate opinion of the
 prosody of the ancient languages ; and consequently of the ef
 fects of the various combinations which with most advantage
 may be introduced into our own.             The idea of barring in the
 modern way, must however, to all appearance, be set down not
 only as destructive to oratorical delivery; but, in addition, as ne
 cessarily excluding (even by the confession of Rousseau himself)
 every species of combination, except that isolated onef, which,
for the facility of keeping time in concert, such limited system
would impose.        Even in their music, the ancient latitude in the
collocation of long and short was much greater than ours: and
hence, for want of experience, the almost insuperable difficulty,
with modern musicians, of executing with precision certain frag
ments which accident liases reserved ; such, for example, as that
portion of a Pindaric ode with which we have been favoured in
the Musical Dictionary of the before-mentioned writer.
                              $
                                                    1
                     I*   4)
              %gv — <r=
                        — a. <pog —  f^iyf A-7to\ — Xco — vo; &c.
                                                  'II
     In our musical way it would bar
        thus
     But in the critical way of Dion ysiusl
                                               }
    of Halicarnassus it would scan thus        J
    * Our present
                  conception of    the Roman stress or accent is in my opinion
invariably correct: however, iu neither Greek nor Roman language does
 it appear in general so decisively marked as in our own.
    \  " Cette maniere
                        d'expfimer le terns ou lit niesure des notes change;*
entierenient durant le cours du dernier siecle. Des qu'on eut pris l'habi-
 tude de rentermer chaque niesure entre deux barres, ii f'allut necessairement
proscrjre toutes les especes de notes qui renfermoient plusieurs mesures."
See Rousseau's Musical Dictionary, article Mesurc.
    The opinion of Vossius too, upon this subject, has been respectfully
quoted by Rousseau in the following words : " II dit, qu'un rhythme de-
tachc comme le notre qui ne represente aucune image des choses, ne
                                                                          peut
avoir aucun cffet; et que les uncieus nombres
                                                    poetiques n'avoieut ete in
ventus que pour cpttc tan que nous ncgligeons."
                                                                 constituting

       to what Extent, and how most readily attainable            P"   249
constituting by this judicious method, a Cretic, a Spondee, and
a Bacchic, — of whose metrical characters a more definite notion
can be formed than of those of the mixed Trochee or Iambus,
which immediately lose themselves in combination.
   When the Greek and Latin languages shall be rightly culti
vated, and delivered as they ought ; then, and not till then, may
we presume to analyse the genuine character of those measures
in which every poet and orator of notoriety excelled : and there
fore I shall postpone, if not absolutely avoid, the intricate dis
cussion, from the conscious difficulty of conveying my ideas in
perspicuous language even when accompanied by oral exempli
fication. This letter on Time or Quantity must conclude then
by an attempt, (and I hope not altogether a fruitless one,) finally
to investigate, — on what rhythmical principle, independently of
feet, the well-executed recitation of our best poetry depends.
   Adhering most strictly, in the pursuit of this question, to my
original design, I rejected as usual all speculative notions, and
resorted to experiment.         The reciter by whom " OA happiness"
was spoken, indulged my curiosity; and two intelligent musicians,
together with my associate, lent me the assistance of their eyes
and ears — their eyes to ascertain the boundaries by the move
ment of a pendulum (beating time with the hand being too
clumsy a criterion) ; and ears for the subsequent measurement,
in some tolerable manner, of the relative proportions.
    The poet was next sought for, and Milton obtained the ge
neral approbation.        Half a dozen sufficiently regular lines of the
 " Paradise Lost " (the more oratorical* ones though excelling
the others in sublimity having baffled our attempts) were chosen,
practised and repractised with remarkable distinctness, until every
ear was pleased.       Of these lines an adequate conception may be
formed by the terminating one of the exordium ; and this for the
gratification of the reader I shall transcribe exactly as it was
spoken.
 [In the following experiment I have not particularly designated
    the position    f syllables, such minute accuracy being too per
    plexing.]
                                Experiment.
          Things unat tempted yet       —    inprolse- -or rhy    me
                                                        '
             12      7 5   10    6   8    6 6    12' 4    $ 12
                  24             24           24          24
   *  " And  chiefly thou Oh ! spirit" down to
                                                 " mad'st it pregnant" were
among this number.
   f  A position syllable too quickly uttered cannot be considered long.
The die in dictio, or even the true in tructus, may, if the speaker choose,
be equalized with the shortest syllables in the Latin language.
                                                                        Let

 250        ee
                Whether Music is necessary         to the  Orator P"
     Let us reduce this passage, as nearly as we can, to some mu
sical standard ; and the mixed characters of time will be more
conspicuous.         Suppose thus :
                                                      —             -
       2/
      /4-                                                         /
       Things      unattempted     yet          in    prose    or     rhyme.
Or    even   thus  :
       2/
       74     1        ff/a        ,                       f y      •    •
          Things      unattempted     yet          in   prose   or rhyme.
     Does not this experiment throw a considerable light upon our
subject ?       Here may be discovered that the rhythm of language
is governed as it should be, by time and not by noise: that con
siderable deviations from all rhythmical regularity are necessary
 to the sublime : that barring in the ordinary way, by perpetually
commencing forte, even in song, but especially in recitative, is
unscientific* in the extreme : that speech, without torturing the
character of words, has its own proportions, employs its synco
pations, and commands its crescendo as well as diminuendo par
titions : that silence, according to ancient conception as well as
modern experience, must necessarily constitute a portion of the
rhythmical whole : and fmally, that time of the common, triple,
and even quintuple character is so frequently and peculiarly
blended, that no musical annotation can represent it.
     What argument can our speech-barring advocates oppose to
such undeniable facts ?          Of these gentlemen, then, 1 shall for
this time take my leave, by obtruding upon their notice an esta
blished maxim of my associate, who was literally born a musi
cian ; that as the most grovelling of all musical performers is
the country fiddler who employs the agency of force to designate
his bars — so the most contemptible of all reciters is he who
marks the boundary of his measures by the instrumentality of
accent.
                               [To  be continued.]
    * Slovenly and imperfect too in its result — a certain habilval crowding
of the   several integral parts within the given boundary,, and not the- rela
tive proportions of those integral parts themselves, being the principal re
quisite for the preservation of modern time. In proof of this assertion, de
prive any ordinary tune which the musician has not previously heard, of
his perpendicular guides called bars — and so far from playing such tune in
concert, he will be incapable of playing it at all. Rousseau has given us,
under the article Barres, a curious anecdote confirmatory of my assertion :
"Auparavant la musique etoit simple: cependant j'ai vu nos meilleurs mu-
 siciens embarrasses a bien executer l'ancienne musique d'Orlande et de
Claudin. lis se perdoient dans la mesure, faute des barres, et ne suivoient
qu'avec peine des parties chanties autrefois couramment par les musiciens
 de Henri III. et de Charles IX."
                                                              XL. A Method

                                         [   251   ]
XL. A      Method of determining              the specific Heat of Bodies
                                                                          from
           their Expansion. By               Mr. Thomas Tredgold.
                                    To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, —     Th b    properties of matter are generally divided into two
classes,  that have been termed Mechanical and Chemical : and
however important the connexion between these properties may
be, they hare not been compared with that attention which the
progress of science appears to require.         Perhaps the distinction
of science into Mechanical and Chemical is not favourable to such
comparisons ; and on that account it would be well if it were less
marked than it is. The distinction has, however, been gradually
lessening, and it is to be hoped will soon disappear altogether ;
for, in as far as they can be considered as sciences, they are founded
on the same principles.        In both departments it must be grati
fying  to  every  lover of science  to find so many points determined
by independent experiments,        which   serve as land-marks to keep
theoretical inquiry within its proper limits.
    In every inquiry respecting the properties of bodies it is de
sirable to show the dependence of these properties upon one an
other ; indeed it is evident that the essential distinctions of the
elementary particles of matter are few, notwithstanding its ap
 parent diversity of forms and properties; consequently these
forms and properties must be dependent on one another.
    At present I will attempt to show that the specific heat of
bodies may be derived from their expansion.             But, as I may as
sume as axioms some properties of heat that are not fully esta
blished, it will be preferable to state them. — I consider heat to
be a real substance, possessing weight, magnitude, attraction,
&c. but its specific weight so small that it cannot be determined
by our instruments.         Also, that when heat is added to another
body, unless it causes a change of state in the body to which it
is added, it does not combine, but the compound remains what
may be termed a mechanical mixture.
    Let m be the magnitude of any body ; and S the weight of a
cube of the same body whose side is unity.             Also, let A be any
magnitude      of heat.   Then   the  magnitude   of  the  body added to
 that of the heat will be       = m+A; and let S' be the weight of
 a cube of the compound, the side of which is unity. Then, be
 cause the weight of the heat is insensible; (to +                 = wiS;
                                                                  /j)   S'
 and the expansion        equal to the bulk of heat added.
                           is
   Hence      —   8~"8-^   s=   A   = the magnitude of the heat when the
specific weights are known.
                                              >
   And     ——
            j      =   S'= the       specific weight of the expanded body.
                                                                             From

252          A   Method    of determining       the specific Heat
   From this view of the subject we may proceed to find the
quantities of heat necessary to produce a given change in the
temperature of bodies, or what is called the specific heat.
    It is obvious that, if the principles I have advanced be correct,
the quantity of expansion at any temperature will be equal to
the quantity of heat required to raise the body to that tempera
ture.     Let the specific heat of the body fixed upon as a standard
be denoted by unity, or 1 ; and its expansion for any given
change of temperature =E : also let e be the expansion of the
same magnitude of any other body for the same change of tem
perature.      Then
   E:  e : : I : — ==  the specific heat of a body of the same bulk.
Consequently, if the same body be the standard of specific heat
and specific gravity; and S be the specific gravity of the body of
which the expansion is e ;
     g| = the specific heat of a body of the same weight.
    In the annexed table it will be seen that the specific heats,             ac
cording to this rule, do not agree very well with those obtained
by other modes of calculation ; for it is to be remembered that it
is not a case that can be submitted to direct experiment.                  In the
case of mercury the results are very near.             The expansion of the
different bodies is from the tables in Thomson's Chemistry, vol. i.
and specific heats, in the last column, are from the same volume,
pages 112 and 1 13.
                 ~Table   of the   specific Heat    of Bodies.
                                     Spec, heat   Spec, heat    Spec, heat   of
                      Expansion
                                    of bodies of of bodies of bodies of the same
      Substance.                     the same     the same             —
                                                               weight : from
                        in bulk. ,            '
                                        bulk.       weight.   Thomson'sTables.
                       0-0466         1-0000       1-0000          1-0000
                       0-375          8-047        6662-8
                       0-11          2-36          2-8SS          0-76
  Fixed oils           0-8            1-716        1-8            0-528
                       0-02          0-429        0-0318          0-033
                       0-0088        0-1 S88      0-026           00943
                       0-0024        0-0515       0-0215          0-187
  Tin                  000651        0-1397       00177           0-068
                       0-00855       0-1835       0-0161          0-050
                       0-00588       0-11974      00143           0-1123
                       0-00516       0-1107       0-0125          0-111
                       0-00366       0-7855       0-01            0-13
  Cast iron            0-00333       0-7146       0-01
   Hardened steel      0-00323       0-6931       0-00S8
                                                                      Granting

                     of Bodies from their Expansion.                    253
    Granting that the principles I have assumed             are correct, it
appears that the expansion expresses the real quantity of heat
necessary to produce a given change of temperature, and the ratio
 of the specific weights of the ultimate particles of bodies being
known, the absolute quantity of heat in any body might be as
 certained.
    If the expansion do not express the real quantity of heat, to
what cause is the increase of bulk to be attributed ? On the other
hand, the experiments that have hitherto been instituted for the
purpose of determining' the specific heat of bodies, must be shown
to be founded on erroneous principles, before the view of the sub
ject, now submitted, can be considered correct. To discuss this
point, it will be necessary to consider the nature of the changes
produced in bodies by the action of attraction or affinity.
     Solids and fluids, whenever they are exposed to gaseous bodies,
 always absorb a portion of them, and gaseous bodies absorb one
another; in the same manner as heat is absorbed by all bodies.
 But the portion of gas absorbed varies, as the temperature; con»
 sequently a specific quantity of gas is essential to fluids and so
 lids in their natural state.
     Now, unless the attraction between the particles of the body
 be less than its attraction for the particles of the one it absorbs,
 no chemical change will take place in the absorbent; but the ab
 sorption will continue till the forces are in equilibrio.           If the
 heterogeneous attraction exceed the homogeneous, then               a  new
 combination forms, and the bodies unite in definite proportions;
 and whatever tends to lessen the homogeneous attraction facili
 tates this change.
     Water is the body that has been generally used to obtain the
 specific heat of bodies : but water holds a considerable portion of
 gas in its pores, and the quantity appears to be inversely as the
  temperature.     Hence it is that water has a maximum of density,
 which has been considered an anomaly in the law of expansion
 in consequence of having overlooked this circumstance.                 The
  absorption  of  gases by    other  fluids  appears in like  manner   to be
  the cause  of  the  irregularity  of  their expansion.
     The mean temperature of any mixture will be influenced by
  the same aause, and therefore the specific heats determined by
  such methods will be incorrect.
     If two portions of water of different temperatures be mixed, the
  temperature of the mixture will be nearly an arithmetical mean
  between those before mixture, because the specific gas is the
  same at all temperatures, in the same manner as the specific heat.
  But when any other body is mixed with water of a different tem
  perature, the specific gas, as well as the specific heat, has an
                                                                  influence

254               The Rev. John Michell's Opinions
influence on the mean temperature of the mixture ; therefore,
unless the specific gas be known, the specific heat cannot be de
termined from the mean temperature.
XLI.   Conjectures concerning the Cause, and Observations upon
   the Phcenomena, of Earthquakes ; particularly of that great
   Earthquake of the first of November 1/'557 which proved so
  fatal to the City of Lisbon, and ivhose Effects were felt as
  far as Africa, and more or less throughout almost allEurope ;
   by the Rev. John Michell,M.A. Fellow of Queen's College,
   Cambridge.
                           [Continued from p. 195.]
   37. This frequency of subterraneous fires, in the neighbour
hood of volcanos, will appear still more probable, if we consider
the internal structure of the Earth ; and, as it will be necessary
also, in order to understand what follows, to know a little more
of this matter, than what falls under common observation, I shall
endeavour to give the reader some account of it.
   38. The Earth then (as far as one can judge from the ap
pearances) is not composed of heaps of matter casually thrown
together, but of regular and uniform strata.        These strata,
though they frequently do not exceed a few feet, or perhaps a
few inches, in thickness, yet often extend in length and breadth
for many miles, and this without varying their thickness consi
derably.   The same Stratum also preserves a uniform character
throughout (a), though the strata immediately next to each other
are very often totally different. Thus, for instance, we shall have,
perhaps, a stratum of potters clay; above that, a stratum of coal ;
then another stratum of soma other kind of clay; next, a sharp
grit sand-stone; then clay again; next, perhaps, sand-stone
again ; and coal again above that : and it frequently happens,
that none of these exceed a few yards in thickness.      There are,
however, many instances, in which the same kind of matter is
extended to the depth of some hundreds of yards ; but in all
these, a very few only excepted, the whole of each is not one
continued mass, but is again subdivided into a great number of
thin laminae(i), that seldom are more than one, two, or three feet
thick, and frequently not so much.
                                                                       39. Be-
   (o) It is not clear, that Mr. Michell in this passage, meant to speak strictly,
or of mineralogical characters only ; see my note on § 47, and the 9th Item
of Mr. Smith's Claims, Phil. Mag. vol. p. 177.— FaREY.
                                           li.        J.
   (6) It does not clearly appear, whether MT\»M. here speaks exclusively of
thin Strata, or beds parallel or nearly so, to the general stratification; or
                                                                         whether

                  concerning         the Stntclure    of the Earth.                       255
    39. Beside the horizoutal division of the earth into strata,
these strata are again divided and shattered by many perpendi
cular fissures, which are in some places few and narrow, but
oftentimes many, and of considerable width.        There are also
many instances, where a particular stratum shall have almost no
fissures at all, though the strata both above and below it are
considerably broken : this happens frequently in clay, probably
on account of the softness of              it,
                                    which may have made        yield                it
to the pressure of the superincumbent matter, and fill up those
fissures which    originally had (c) for we sometimes meet with
                   it                           ;
instances in mines, where the correspondent fissures in an upper
and lower stratum are interrupted in an intermediate stratum
composed of clay, or some such soft matter.
    40. Though these fissures do sometimes correspond to one
another in the upper and lower strata, yet this      not generally   is
the case, at least not to any great distance    those clefts,, how
                                                            :
ever, in which the larger veins of the ores of metals are found,
are an exception to this observation; for they sometimes pass
through many strata(ii), and those of different kinds, to unknown
                                                 •
depths.                                     .
                                                                               41. From
whether he had noticed, and meant to include herein, the thin laminae,
highly inclined to the real strata, and called        me strutula, which some
                                                       by
times occur  in   the Sandstones ot' the Coal-measures and are very frequent
in the coarse Slate districts. (Derby. Report,        i.
                                                     155.)
                                                           —J. F.
   (c) In this 39th   section, and the beginning of the 40th,           to be ob
                                                                          it   is
served, that Mr. M.         speaking exclusively of joints or cutters, dividing
                               is
the individual thin strata or beds, into separate blocks, and not of Mineral
Veins  (§  40), or of Faults     50); although, like as with the latter, he sup
                                    (§
poses, that these jeints passed at one period through some of the contiguous
strata or beds, but have since disappeared from the softer ones,              the        by
pressure of the incumbent beds, haviug asain closed up the joints in them                     :
this latter, however, appears an unnecessary and unwarrantable supposition:
the face of hardly any deep Quarries or of Cliffs can be contemplated, with
out perceiving, that scarcely any two, even of the adjacent beds of Stone,
have joints corresponding with each other, either in the width of open
fissure, or in their places; evidently, because the individual beds, have,                    by
their own peculiar degree of contraction or shrinking, opened these joints,
in various and independent degrees; and very frequently, Strata or Beds
may be found, between others intersected by joints, which have themselves
suffered no lateral contraction, and are, and evidently always have been,
without any joints thisis very common with strata of Clay between others
                       :
of Limestone, and between Sandstones, with Basaltic Strata interlaying
Limestones, like those of the Peak-hundreds of Derbyshire, &c. — J. F.
   (</) Although Mineral Veins, including Dykes or those solidly filled with
Basalt or other stony matters, pass in most cases " through many strata,"
their fissures will, on careful examination appear to have been,-not less cer
                           a
tainly opened     by mere shrinking, than the joints spoken of      my last Note:
                                                                      in
the Vein Fissures, appear to have preceded the joints,        the order of open
                                                                in
ing, and to have resulted from causes or tendencies to shrink, more ex
tensive and symmetrical, as        evinced
                                     is          by
                                               the length, parallelism ami width

256                 The Rev. John Michell's Opinions
    41. From this constitution of the earth, viz. the want of cor
respondence in the fissures of the upper and lower strata, as well
as on account of those strata which are little or not at all shat
tered, it will come to pass, that the earth cannot easily be sepa
rated in a direction* perpendicular (e) to the horizon, if we take
any considerable portion of it together ; but in the horizontal
direction, as there is little or no adhesion between one stratum
and another, it may be separated without difficulty.
                                                                   42. Those
of many Veins, and less influenced by the peculiar qualities of the shrinking
mass, than is apparent with the individual Beds, as shown by the number
and widths of their present joints ; and yet, it is perfectly evident, that the
shrinking which opened Mineral Veins, was in some degree influenced by the
peculiar degrees of shrinkage of the several Strata, through which they have
passed : this will be apparent, by consulting the 2d figure in p. 158, and
         of Mr. Westgarth Forster's " Treatise on a Section of Strata;" the
&69,
   nrham and Northumberland Veins, being wider, and hade less, where they
descend through Limestone, than through Shale : the limestone having first
shrunk, and in greater degree, than the shale, which was perhaps in some
measure torn, or rent by the retiring limestone, above and beneath it: as
seems evidently, though in lesser degrees, to have happened, with the Der
byshire Toadstones. — Report i. 246. —     J. F.
    * What    I said before of those deep clefts, in which metals are found,
will not affect this conclusion; for they are considerably different from
cither perpendicular or plane sections of earth; they are frequently inter
 rupted by strata of clay, or other soft matter; and they are, in most parts,
either filled up with rubbish, or with ores and spars, that adhere as firmly
 to the rocks on both sides, as if they composed one continued stratum with
 them.                         —   — —
    (e) Besides having in the above note, laid too much stress on the firm
adherence of the Spars and Ores in mineral Veins, to their cheeks, Mr.
 Michell seems not to have considered, in this part of his statement and
argument, that the centre part of most Veins adhere, or connect the Skirts
 together, but slightly, and that often, TiA-holes or empty lenticular cavities
occur, to locally separate them altogether: Mr. M. seems here to have
overlooked the influence of Fuitlts, in almost totally destroying the cohesive
strength of the Earth, for resisting a separation in a direction parallel to the
 horizon, by fissures nearly perpendicular thereto: his notice of the grand
 and instructive phenomena of Faults, in § 50, is indeed so slight,(founded
chiefly) it would seem, on Mr.Strachey's example in the Phil.Trans. No.360,
 as to excite my surprise, especially, as in § 50, he admits them to be of very
 common occurrence. — J. F.
    Mr. Smith having communicated to me, nothing material regarding Faults
                          I
 (P. M. xxxvii. p. 441), set my mipd with energy 11 or 12 years ago, to in
 vestigate them for myself, and have to my own satisfaction succeeded, and
 to that of many, in late years, of the practical Agents of my Employers, and
 othersof the greatest experience, with regard to the complicated operations
 and effects of Faults, on particular mineral Fields,in various situations: my
 investigations show, that the Fault»of a district, all connect together like
 a net-work on the surface, and have their sides polished, by the most vio
                                                     I
 lent friction, many times repeated ; indicating, as conclude (see Phil. Mag.
 xliii. p. 183) that the whole mass of the Earth is broken through, in all
 possible directions, by these mechanical fissures called Faults, and that the
 innumerable angular fragments, into which ibe mass is divided thereby, have

                        concerning   the Structure      of the Earth.                   257
       42. These fissures which are at some depth below the surface
 of the earth, are generally found full of water ; but all those that
 are below the level of the sea, must always be so (/), either from
 the oozing of the sea, or rather of the land waters between the
strata.
   43. The strata of the earth are frequently very much bent,
being raised in some places, and depressed in others, and this-
sometimes with a very quick ascent or descent j but as these as
cents and descents, in a great measure, compensate one another,,
if we take a large extent of country together, we may look upon
the whole set of strata, as lying nearly horizontally.        What is
very  remarkable,    however,  in their situation,   that from     is,
                                                                most,
if not all, large  tracts of  high  and  mountainous   countries, the
strata lie in   situation more inclined to the horizon, than the
                        a
                                                              country
 for   a long period of time been in frequent motion, sliding by the side of
  each other     apparently for effecting, the constant change of the spheroidal
                    ;
  figure of equilibrium, which an enormously great tidal action had occasioned
  (the excess of which action probably occasioned these fissures in the first
  instance)   and the cessation of which action (at a period antecedent to the
                ;
 creation of the first progenitors of each now-living kind of organized Beings)
  has left these polished fragments of the Earth's mass, scarcely       at all adhe
                                                                         if
  rent to euch other, otherwise than by their mutual and conjomed attraction.
 This last, being a matter of frequent, and        believe of unvarying observa
                                                    I
  tion,    by
           Colliers, Miners, Quarriers, Canal-diggers, &c. &c. wherever Faults
  are explored beneath the surface,       seems to me, materially to invalidate,
                                          it
  all that Mr. M. and Mr. Whitehurst since, and others have written, as to
  the strength and toughness, of continuous strata of Clay, for confining down-
  elastic or fluid matters, within the Earth but so near to its surface, as tec
                                                    ;
 be visible thereon, by waves, or undulatory motions thereof. —           J.
                                                                          F.
     (J~) Mr. Michell's assertion here,     much too general, as so acute
                                            is                                  rea-a
  soner could not have failed of perceiving,        if
                                                    he had attended to the well-
 known fact, in all Coat districts, and        believe
                                               I            all Mine districts like
                                                              in
 wise,      Great Britain, viz. that the Fault-stuff
           in                                             there, invariably Water
                                                             is
 tight, and, together with the unfissured argillaceous Strata, interlaying the
 porous or fissured Sandstones and Limestones, effect so complete an ex
 clusion    of
             surface Water, that   seems evident, with more provident manage
                                     it
 ment, as to not cutting through the Faults below-ground, and not sinking
"Shafts, or driving stone Levels without water-tight linings or floors, almost
 all deep Coal-pits and many Mines, mould be dry in all their deepest parts,
 even far below the surface-level of the Sea, as great numbers of instances
 prove.
     Hundreds of intelligent practical Men, well aware of the facts above
 stated, concur fully believe with rae, in viewing these breakings and dis
                            I
 locations of the Strata by Faults, as amongst the most evidently beneficent
 provisions of the Deity, for the use of Man!: and yet, in the present
 year, the Rev. Thomas Gisborne has put forth          Book, intended for the
                                                         a                               in
 struction of young Divines, wherein a voluminous mass of extracts            made,
                                                                               is
 through 130 of its pages, from various Writers on Geology, from which the
 very contrary of the above position          deduced.
                                               is           The author intimates
 (iu p. 94) that but for the use of Sinners, the Iron and the Coals would not
       Vol. 52. No.246. Oct. 1818.                                R                 have

   258               The Rev.   John Michell '$ Opinions
  country itself, the mountainous countries * being generally if not
   always, formed out of the lower strata of earth.               This situation
  of the strata may be not unaptly represented in the following
  manner. Let a number of leaves of paper, of several different sorts
  or colours, be pasted upon one another ; then bending them up
  together into a ridge in the middle, conceive them to be reduced
 .Sgain to a level surface, by a plane so passing through them, as
4* cut off all the part that had been raised ; let the middle now
:be again raised a little, and this will be a good general repre
 sentation of most, if not of all, large tracts of mountainous coun
 tries, together with the parts adjacent, throughout the whole
  world   f  (g).
                                                                        44. From
  have been arranged as at present       the beds of Coal and the metallic veins
  are (he says) deeply stationed      below the surface of the Earth," and
  through these dislocations, are
                                    " in every mode of confusion !"
     Although 'in the Coal and Mine districts, where minerals useful to Man,
 lie deep beneath the surface, water-tight Faults are numerously supplied by
 the all-wise Creator, for facilitating their extraction; yet in other districts,
  where no such use to Man could result from deep excavations, like as in the
 (Chalk district above whicbLondon stands, there theFaultsare not water-tight,
  as is evinced, by the inexhaustible supplies of pure Water which find their
  -way through the chalk, from the parts thereof lying high and bare, beyond
 .the edges of the London Clay, for such great distances under this water
  tight covering of the Chalk, and ready, by the sagacity and industry of
  Man, to be let up, in over-flowing Wells, in almost any of the vast space
 •covered by this Clay, between Newbury on the W: and Canterbury and
  Cromer on the E. : and the same again, near the Sea, in Lincolnshire and
  Yorkshire.— J. F.
      * It seems very probable, from many appearances, not only that the
  mountainous countries are formed out of the lower strata of the earth, but
  that sometimes the highest hills in them are formed outof strata still lower
  than the rest, which, perhaps, may always be the case, where they have
  volcanos in them. [See a representation of this in Plate IV. fig. 3.] In
  other instances, however, it often happens, that the hills, to which these
  high lands serve as a base, are not only formed out of the strata next above
  them, but they stand, as it were, in a dish, as if they had depressed the
   ground, on which they rest, by their weight.
      t Fig. 1. represents a section of a set of strata, lying in the situation just
   described: the section is supposed to be made at right angles to the length
   of the ridge, and perpendicular to the horizon.
      (g) The remarkably correct view of the ridged and troughed structure of
   the crust of the Earth, given by Mr. Michell in this passage, and in fig. 1.
   of his Plate (see the 4th Plate annexed), is not merely applicable to the vi
   cinity of Mountains, properly so called, such as range through Wales, but
   it applies to every part of the surface of Great Britain ; Mr. Smith, many
   years ago (without knowing, more than myself, what Mr. Michell had writ
   ten) discovered, not that particular class of the Strata Ridges and Troughs,
                                                                              which

                     concerning the Structure        of the Earth.               159
      44. From this formation of the earth, it will follow, that we
  ought to meet with the same kinds of earths, stones, and mi
  nerals, appearing at the surface, in long narrow slips, and lying
  parallel to the greatest rise of any long ridges of mountains j and
  so, in fact, we find them.            The Andes in South America, as it
  has been said before, have a chain of volcanos, that extend in
  length above 5000 miles : these volcanos, in all probability, are
  all derived from the same stratum*.                  Parallel to the Andes, is
  the Sierra, another long ridge of mountains, that run between
  the Andes and the sea; and            "  these two ridges of mountains run
  within sight of one another, and almost equally, for above a thou
  sand leagues together f," being each, at a medium, about twenty
  leagues wide.         The gold and silver mines wrought by the Spa
 niards, are found in a tract of country parallel to the direction of
  these, and extending through a great part of the length of them.
      45. The same thing is found to obtain in North America also.
  The great lakes, which give rise to the river St. Laurence, are
  kept up by a long ridge of mountains, that run nearly parallel to
  the eastern coast.          In descending from these towards the sea'
 the same sets of strata %, and in the same order, are generally
  met with throughout the greatest part of their length.
      46. In Great Britain, we have another instance to the same
  purpose, where the direction of the ridge(A) varies about a point
  from due north and south, lying nearly from N. by E. to S.
                                                                                  by
 which lie parallel to the mountain range, of which alone Mr.M. speaks, but
  others, ranging almost at right angles to these, in the middle and southern
 and eastern parts of England, Phil. Mag. xxxix. p. 271 Note.
     It appears essential, towards the tracing and usefully understanding of
  the siihjicial structure of any district of Country, that all its Strata Ridge and
 Trough Lines, should he surveyed and mapped; I have accomplished a great
  deal of this, with regard to Derbyshire and its environs, to the northern
  parts of Wales (Phil. Mag. vol. xlv. p. 165), to a considerable portion of
  the south of Scotland, &c, and Mr. Smith also has much in store hereon;
  but while publication remains gratuitous, only to h particular Party, and
  expensive to other labourers in the Geological Field, these labours must
  necessarily be suspended. — J. F.
     *  See the notes to art. 36 and 53.      See also fig. S.
     t  See Acosta's Natural History of the Indies.
    t  See Lewis Evans's Map and Account of North America.
     (h) In adverting so pointedly to a single mountain Rid«e, through the
  western side of Great Britain, Mr. Micheli is evidently mistaken : the Welch
  mountains of Coarse Slate, &c. present 3 or 4ralmost parallel strata Ridges
. and Troughs, of great length, and the same is the case with the middle and
  southern parts of Scotland : the Strata Ridges do not always range through
  the centre of mountain masses — witness the Edinburgh Strata Ridge, which,
  though occasioning the Pentland Hills, docs not pass through them (and
                                           R3                                  others

260 Mr.MicheU's Geological Opinions, and Olservations
by   W.*    There are many more instances of this to be met with
in the world,   if we may judge from circumstances, which make
it highly probable, that it obtains in a great number of places,
and in several they seem to put it almost out of doubt.
   47. The reader is not to suppose, however, that, in any in
stances, the highest rise of the ridge, and the inclination of the
strata from thence to the countries on each side, is perfectly uni
form ; for they have frequently very considerable inequalities,
and these inequalities are sometimes so great, that the strata are
bent for some small distance, even the contrary way from the
general inclination of them.       This often makes it difficult to
trace the appearance I have been relating, which, without a ge
neral knowledge of the fossil bodies (i) of a large tract of country,
it is hardly possible to do.
   48. At considerable distances from large ridges of mountains,
the strata, for the most part, assume a situation nearly level ; and
as the mountainous countries are generally formed out of the
lower strata, so the more level countries are generally formed out
of the upper strata of the earth.
   49. Hence it comes to pass, that, in countries of this kind,
the same strata are found to extend themselves a great way, as
well in breadth as in length : we have an instance of this in the
chalky and flinty countries of England and France, which (ex
cepting the interruption of the Channel, and the clays, sands, &c.
of a few counties) compose a tract of about three hundred miles-
each way.
    50. Besides the rising of the strata in a ridge, there is another
very remarkable appearance in the structure of the earth, though
a very common one ; and this is what is usually called by miners,
the trapping down of the strata; that           is,
                                             the whole set of strata
on one side   a  cleft are sunk down below the level of the corre-
others of Plutonic and Geognostic celebrity), but up the vale of the Leitli,
nearly, completely on their north-western sifie. — P. J.
   • Of this     could give many undoubted proofs,
            I                                               would not too far
                                                           if   it
exceed the limits of my present design, and which, for that reason,       I am
 obliged to omit.
   (») Mr. Smith's detractors would fain make          out, that Mr. Michell
                                                      it
here meant organized remains:    it  this werein the least apparent, I   would
not hesitate an instant, in giving him the praise due to so important a sug
gestion: plainly however, Mr. M. intimates, that the requisite knowledge
of the " fossil bodies," of whatever kind, reas nut then possessed   by him:-r-
my highly-injured Friend Mr. Smith, did possess the U9eful knowledge, and
was liberal in communicuting it, of the unorganized      and organized bodies
*' of a
        large tract of country," years before Geognosts, or any of their hand-
specimen mineralogical Theory of the whole Earth, was to he heard or read
of in this country. — F.
                      J.
                                                                     sponding

             concerning the Phcenomena               of Earthquakes.    261
sponding strata on the other side.      If, in some cases, this dif
ference in the level of the strata, on the different sides of the cleft,
should be very considerable, it may have a great effect in pro
ducing some of the singularities of particular earthquakes*.
   Part II. — 51.     In the former part of this essay, I have re
counted some of the principal appearances of earthquakes, as
well as those particulars in the structure of the earth, upon which
I suppose these appearances to depend. From what has been
already said, I think it is sufficiently manifest, that, in some in
stances at least, earthquakes are actually produced by subter
raneous fires: it now, therefore, remains to be shown> how all
the appearances above-recited, as well as many other minuter
circumstances attending earthquakes, may be accounted for from
the same cause.
    Section I. — 52. The returns of earthquakes in the same places,
either at small or large intervals of time, are very consistent
with the cause assigned: subterraneous fires, from their analogy
to volcanos, might reasonably be supposed to subsist for many
ages, though we had not those instances already mentioned                 f,
which put the matter out of doubt.        And, as it frequently hap
pens, that volcanos rage for a time, and then are quiet again for
a number of years ; so we see earthquakes also frequently re
peated for some small time, and then ceasing again for a long
term, excepting, perhaps, now and then some slight shock.
And this analogy between earthquakes, and the effects of vol
canos, is so great, that I think it cannot but appear striking to
any one, who will read the accounts of both, and compare them
together.    The raging of volcanos is not one continued and uni
form effect ; but an effect, that is repeated at unequal intervals,
and with unequal degrees of force : thus, for instance, we shall
have, perhaps, two or three blasts discharged from a volcano,
succeeding one another at the interval of a few seconds only:
sometimes the intervals are of a quarter of an hour, an hour, a
day, or perhaps several days. And as these intervals are very un
equal, so is the violence of the blasts also : sometimes stones, &c.
are thrown, by these blasts, to the distance of some miles ; at
other times, perhaps, not to the distance of a hundred yards.
The same difference is observed in the intervals and violence of
   *
     Fig. 2. represents a section of the strata trapping down after the man
ner just described. The section is supposed to be made perpendicularly to
the horizon, and at right angles to the direction of the cleft: an instance
of this kind, amongst the coal mines of Mendip in Somersetshire, is men
tioned in the Phil. Trans.   See the account of      it,
                                                     together with a drawing^
in No. 360, or Jones's Abr. vol. iv. part ii.    260.
                                                p.
 t   See art. 28 to 32 inclusive.
                                   R  3                                  the

262         Conjectures concerning the Cause, and Observations
the shocks of earthquakes, which are repeated at small intervals
for some time.
   Section II. — 53. The great frequency of earthquakes in the
neighbourhood of burning' mountains, is a strong argument of
their proceeding from a cause of the same kind : and (he ana
logy of several volcanos lying together in the same tract of
country, as well as new ones breaking out in the neighbourhood
of old ones,      tends greatly to confirm this opinion ; but what
makes it still the more probable, is that peculiarity in the struc
ture of the earth, already mentioned.           I observed before, that
the same strata are generally very extensive, and that they com
monly lie more inclining from the mountainous countries, than
the countries themselves : these circumstances make it very pro
bable, that those strata of combustible materials *, which break
out in volcanos on the tops of the hills, are to be found at a con
siderable depth under ground in the level and low countries near
                                                                    them.
   * It lias been imagined by some authors, that volcanos are produced by
 the pyrites of veins, and that they do not owe their origin to the matter of
strata. In order to prove this, it is alleged, that volcanos are generally
found on the tops of mountains, and that those are the places in which veins
 of pyrites are generally lodged. This argument being taken from observa
tions that have their foundation in nature, ought not to go unanswered.
In the first place, then, the pyrites of veins, or fissures, are not found in
sufficient quantities, or extending to a sufficient bretdth, to be supposed
capable of producing the fires of volcanos: it very rarely happens, that we
meet with a vein or fissure five or six yards wide ; and when we meet with
such an one, yet, perhaps, not a twentieth part of it at most shall be filled
-with pyrites; but the fires of volcanos, instead of being long and narrow, as
if the matter that supplied them \*as deposited in veins, are generally round,
and of far greater breadth than veins can be supposed to be. Mans. Bou-
guer says, that the mouth of the volcano Cotop;ixi is, at this time, five or
six hundred fathoms wide; [see Hist, and Phil, of Earthquakes, p. 195.]
and the burning island that was raised out of the sea near Tercera, as ber
fore mentioned, was almost three leagues in diameter, and nearly round.
[See art. H9.\
   Besides this, it is very difficult to conceive how any matters lodged in
veins can ever take fire; for, excepting where the veins are extremely nar
row, they are almost always drowned in a very great quantity of water,which
lias free access to every part of them (k): neither are the pyrites of veins, by
any means, so apt to take fire of themselves, as those of strata; and    if,   in
deed, there are any of them that will do so, yet they are but few in com
parison of those which will nut: all those, which, beside iron and sulphur,
contain copper, or arsenic, even in       very small proportion, are not at all
                                                    a
subject to inflame of themselves.      On the other hand, most of the pyrites
of strata, not all of them, have this property more or less. There are
                 if
also two sorts of strata, in which pyrites are lodged in the greatest abun
dance, that have the same property, and that frequently       in as great a de
gree as themselves     these are coals and aluminous earths, or shale. There
                        :
are some kinds of both these, that upon being exposed to the external air
for few months, will take fire of themselves, and burn. These two sorts
      a
                                                                               of
     (*)   See   Note / in   p.   257.—   J.   F.

                     upon the "Phcenomena,of Earthquakes.                             263
them.       this should be the case, and if the same strata* should
               If
be on fire in any places under such countries, as well as on the
tops of the hills, all vapours, of whatsoever kind, raised from
these fires, must be pent up, unless so far as they can open them
selves a passage between the strata ; whereas the vapours raised
from volcanos find a vent, and are discharged in blasts from the
mouths of them.       Now,         if,
                              when they find such     vent, they are
                                                                  a
yet capable of shaking the country to the distance of ten or.
twenty miles round, what may we not expect from them, where
they are confined       We may form some idea of the force and;
                         ?
quantity  of  these vapours from their effects        no uncommon,
                                                         :   it   is
thing  to see  them  throw up, at once, such   clouds of sand, ashes,,
and pumice stones, as are capable     of  darkening   the  whole airj.
and covering the neighbouring country with          shower of dust,
                                                             a
of strata   are also near akin to each other; they are generally found to ac
 company each other      ; they are both of them generally intermixed with, or
accompanied         strata of iron ore; and they both of them, for the . most
                    by
 p»rt, either contain, or are lodged amongst, the remains of vegetable bodies^
and these remains of vegetable bodies in the aluminous earths, are fre
 quently either wholly, or    inpart, converted into pyrites, or coal, or both..
Numberless instances of this are to be met with in the aluminous shale of
 Whitby and other places.
    It.
     is   very probable, that to some stratum of this kind the fires of volcanos
are owing; and this seems to be confirmed           by  the similarity of the ma
 terials, which are thrown up or sublimated       by  the fires of volcanos, to the
 matter of the aluminous earths. Solfatara produces sulphur, alum, and sal'
ammoniac.       The two former of these are very easily to be obtained from
the aluminous earths, and, suppose, the latter also at least
                              I                              ;         it    procur
                                                                            is
able from the soot of common fossil coals, and probably, therefore, from
the soot of that coaly matter which          intermixed with such earths.
                                            is
   The aluminous earths, moreover, not only have several strata of iron ore
lying in them, but they also contain a considerable proportion of iron in
their composition.      In correspondence to this, we find the lavas of vol
canos, anil other matters thrown out from thence, frequently containing a
great deal of iron, the small dust of them readily adhering to the magnet.
    As to the pyrites of veins, much doubt whetherthey ever contain alum,
                                   I
or sal ammoniac at least they are very rarely found to contain either the
                     ;
 one or the other.
    *It   may be asked, perhaps, why a stratum liable to take fire               in
                                                                                some
places, should not take fire throughout the whole extent of it. In answer
to this,  itmay be said, that the same stratum may differ         little in the rich
                                                                  a
ness of its combustible principles in different places       ;or, perhaps, the fre
quency of the fissures, either     inthe combustible stratum itself, or the stra
tum next to it, may let in so much water, as to prevent its taking fire, ex
cepting in a few places: but, if this once happens, the fire will not easily
be put out again, but    it will spread itself, notwithstanding the fissures that
lie m its way, though they are filled with water; for the matter on fire will
be, in   some degree at least,     in
                                   a   fluid state; and, for this reason,       must
                                                                                 it
necessarily expel the water from the fissures, both on account of the ex
tension of its ovvn dimensions        the heat, and of the weight of the super
                                       by
incumbent earth, which, pressing it, will make      it  spread laterally.
                                                                        '
                                            R4                                        &c.

264      Conjectures concerning the Cause, and Olservations
&c. to    some   miles distance: great stones also, of some tons
weight, are often thrown to the distance of two or three miles by
these explosions: and Mons. Bouguer tells us, that he met with
stones in South America, of eight or nine feet diameter, that had
been thrown from the volcano Cotopaxi, by one of these blasts,
tathe distance of more than three leagues *.
   54. If we suppose that these vapours, when pent up, are the
cause of earthquakes, we must naturally expect, from what has
been just said, that the most extensive earthquakes should take
their rise from the level and low countries ; but more especially
from the sea, which is nothing else than waters covering such
countries.    Accordingly we find, that the great earthquake of
the 1st of November 1755, which was felt at places near three
thousand miles distant from each other, took its rise from under
the sea; this is manifest, from that wave which accompanied                 it,
as shall be shown hereafter.       The same thing         to be under
                                                          is
stood of the earthquake that destroyed Lima in the year 1746,
which,   it has been said, was felt as far as Jamaica         and, as
                                                               ;            it
was more violent than the Lisbon earthquake, so,           this be true,
                                                           if
it must, in all probability, have been more extensive also. There
have been many other very extensive earthquakes in South Ame
rica : Aeosta says, that they have been often known to extend
themselves one, two, or three hundred, and some even five hun
dred leagues, along the coast.        These have been generally,            if
not always, attended with waves from the sea; but any minuter
circumstances accompanying them are not related.            Indeed         it   is
hardly  to  be  expected   that  they  should  be observed,   much less
that they   should   be related, when they happened in          country
                                                                   a
so thinly inhabited, and where one may reasonably suppose, that,
in general, only the grosser and more violent effects would be
taken notice of.
   Section III. — 55.       have said before, that    imagined earth
                         by I
                                                      I
quakes   were  caused      vapours   raised  from  waters  suddenly let
out upon subterraneous fires.         It   not easy to find any other
                                           is
cause capable of producing such sudden and violent effects, or
of raising such an amazing quantity of vapour in so small          time.
                                                                       a
That the blasts, discharged from volcanos, are always produced
from this cause,   is highly probable   ; that they are often so, can
not admit of the least doubt.      There can be no doubt, that con
siderable quantities of water must be often let out upon the fires
   * See Hist, and Philos. of Earthq. p. 195. Don Antonio d'Ulloa, an au
thor of great veracity, speaking of the same thing, says, that " the whole
plain [nearLatacunga]   is full of large pieces of rocks, some of them thrown
from the volcano Cotopaxi, by one of its eruptions, to the distance of five
leagues." See his Voyage to Peru, part   i.   book vi. chap. 1.

                       upon the Phcenomena,                     of Earthquakes.                           265
of   these volcanos, and whenever this happens, it will be imme
diately raised by the heat of them into a vapour, whose elastic
force is capable of producing the most violent effects*.
    56. Both the tremulous and wave-like motion observed in
earthquakes, may be very well accounted for from such a vapour.
In order to trace a little more particularly the manner in which
these two motions will be brought about, let us suppose the roof
                                                                        over
   * There are many effects produced by the vapour of water, when in
tensely heated, which make it probable, that the force of gunpowder is not
near equal to it. The effects of an exceeding' small quantity of water, upon
which melted metals are accidentally poured, are such, as, I think, could
in no wise be expected from the like quantity of gunpowder.       Founders,
if they are not careful, often experience these effects to their cost. An
accident of this kind happened about forty years since, at the casting of
two brass cannon at Windmill-hill, Moorfields. " The heat of the metal
of the first gun drove so much damp into the mould of the second, which was
                                                                     it,
near  it,that as soon as the metal was let into    blew up with the greatest
                                                                     it
violence, tearing up the ground some feet deep, breaking down the fur
nace, untiling the house, killing many spectators on the spot, with the
streams     of   melted     metal,   and scalding           many      others in a most             miserable
manner." [See the note at the end of process 44th of the English transla
tion of Cramer's Art of Assaying Metals.]
   Other instances of the violence of vapours raised from water, are fre
quently to be met with: one of Papin's digesters being placed between the
bars of     grate, where there was a fire, was, after some time, burst by the
            a
violence of the steam, the fire was all blown out of the grate, and       piece                      a
of the digester was driven against the leaf of a strong oak table, which                                   it
broke to pieces.       [See Phil. Trans. No. 454, or Martyn's Abr. vol. viii.
p. 465.]     The marquis of Worcester also, in his Century of Inventions,
tells us, that he burst a cannon by the same means.
   It has been sometimes imagined, that the vapours, which occasion earth
quakes, were of the same kind with those fulminating damps, of which we
often meet with instances in coal mines.         Now, there are several things
which make        very probable that this
                  it                         not the case: is  true, the force    it   is
of such vapous       very great; we have had instances, where large beams of
                       is
timber have been thrown to the distance of an hundred yards by them                                            :
[see Philos. Trans. No. 136, or vol.      p. 381. Lowthorp's Abr.] but what
                                                      ii.
is   this to the force of that vapour, which could throw stones of twenty
or thirty, ton weight to the distance of three leagues      Nor, indeed,          ?                        it
                                                                                                          is
at all probable, that any Vapour, already in the form of a vapour, can, by
suddenly taking fire, increase its dimensions so much, as to produce that
immense quantity of motion, which we observe in some earthquakes            but                       :
this is  rather to be expected from some solid body, such as water, which                                      is
capable of being converted,and that almost instantly, into one of the lightest,
and perhaps one of the most elastic, vapours in the world.          Air, when
heated to the greatest degree that       capable of receiving from the hottest
                                                 it   is
fires we can make, acquires      degree of elasticity about five times as great
                                          a
as that of common air: the vapour of gunpowder, whilst             inflamed, has      it   is
also about five times the elastic force which    has when cold. [See Robins's
                                                                 it
excellent tract on Gunnery.]      Now,    we suppose  if fulminating damp, of
                                                                           in a
                                                         the same proportion,
any kind, to increase its elasticity, when inflamed
this will be abundantly sufficient to make      produce any effects, which we
                                                                it
have ever seen produced              by   any   of   the damps        of mines, &c.             And, indeed,
                                                                                                    whoever

266        Conjectures concerning the Cause, and Observations
over some subterraneous fire to fall in. If this should be the case,
the earth, stones, &c. of which it was composed, would imme-
                                                                                or of
whoever carefully examines the effects, either of the damps of mines,
                                that  are raised from some  metals, when   in fusion,
those fulminating damps,
or when they are dissolving in acids, will rather be inclined to think, that
the force of inflamed vapours is so far from exceeding the proportion of
 five to one, that it falls considerably short of it.
      But though we should suppose that this proportion holds good, where
 shall we find a place capable of containing a sufficient quantity
                                                                          of such a
 vapour, to produce the great effects of earthquakes? It
                                                                   will be said, per
 haps, in subterraneous caverns.          To this we may answer, that he, who is
 but moderately acquainted with the structure of the earth, and the ma
  terials of which it is composed, will be little inclined to allow of any great
  or extensive caverns in it(/). But, though this should be admitted, how
  can it come to pass that these caverns should not be filled with water?          If
  it is alleged, that the water is expelled, as the vapour is formed, why should
 not the vapour, as it is supposed to be the lighter, be expelled, rather than
  the water, by the same passages by which the water is to be expelled ? But
  let us suppose this difficulty also to be got over, and the water lo be re
  moved, and we shall then have a gage for the density of the vapour; for
  it must be just sufficient to make it capable of sustaining a column of wa
   ter, whose height is equal to that of the surface of the sea above the bot
  tom of the cavern, in which the vapour is supposed to be contained. Now,
  since the mean weight of earth, stones, &C is not less than two and a half
  times the weight of water, this vapour must be increased to two and a half
   times its original elasticity, before it can, in any wise, raise the earth above
   it; and if we suppose it to be increased to five times its original elasticity,
   it wiil then be no more than twice able to do so; in which case, so much
   vapour only can be discharged from the cavern, to produce an earthquake,
   as is equal to the content of the cavern : and what must the size of that
   cavern be, which could contain vapour enough to produce the earthquake
   of tjie 1st of November 1755, in which an extent of earth of near three
   thousand miles diameter was considerably moved? or how can we suppose,
   that the roof of such a cavern, when so violently shaken, should avoid falling
   in?, especially, as it is hardly to he supposed, that any inflamed vapour what
   soever should be able to move the earth over these caverns, if they lay at
   any great depth, since the' weight of less than three miles depth of earth is
   capable of retaining the inflamed vapour of gunpowder within the original
   dimensions of the gunpowder itself ; and common air, compressed by the
    same weight (supposing the known law of its compression to hold so far),
   would be of greater density than water.
       We may a.-.k still further, w hence Mich vast quantities of vapour should
    be formed, or what sources thev must be, which would not be exhausted (if
    they were n it again replenished) by a very few repetitions of such im
    mense discharges.
       (/ ) In this passage, we see another instance of Mr.Michell's happy sa
    gacity, in rejecting the notion of extensive Caverns within the 'Earth, long
    before the observations of Maskelyne and calculations of Hutton, (Phil.
    Mag. vol. xxxviii. p. U2) had established a specific gravity for the whole
    Globe, quite inconsistent with such a puerile supposition: the confirmatory
    experiments however of Cavendish, and the sublimedeductionsof Laplace,
    in further confirmation of the same well-established fact, are yet unable to
    shake the belief of numbers of Plutonists and Geognosts, in the dogma
    common to both their Creeds, viz. that Granite, of their very precise hand-
    specimen kind, occupies all the central parts of the Globe!"
                                                                              diately
                                                             •

                 upon the Phcenomena,                   of Earthquakes.                267
diately sink in the melted matter of the fire below : hence all the
water contained in the fissures and cavities of the part falling in,
would come in contact with the fire, and be almost instantly
raised into vapour.    From the first effort of this vapour, a cavity
would he formed (between the melted matter and superincum
bent earth) filled with vapour only, before any motion would be
perceived at the surface of the earth : this must necessarily hap
pen, on account of the compressibility* of all kinds of earth, stones,
&c. but as the compression of the materials immediately over
the cavity, would be more than sufficient to make them bear the
weight of the superincumbent matter, this compression must be
propagated on account of the elasticity of the earth, in the same
manner as a pulse is propagated through the air j and again the
materials immediately over the cavity, restoring themselves be
yond theit natural bounds, a dilatation will succeed to the com
pression ; and these two following each other alternately, for
some time, a vibratory motion will be produced at the surface of
the earth.   If these alternate dilatations and compressions should
succeed one another at very small intervals, they would excite a
like motion in the air, and thereby occasion a considerable noise.
The noise that is usually observed to precede or accompany earth
quakes, is probably owing partly to this cause, and partly to the
grating of the parts of the earth together, occasioned by that
wave-like motion before mentioned.
   57. After the water, that first came in contact with the fire,
has formed a cavity, all the rest of the water contained in the
                                                                                  fissures,
  * The compressibility     and elasticity of the earth, are qualities which don't
show themselves in any great degree in common instances, and therefore
are not commonly attended to. On this account it                  is,
                                                              that few people are
aw are of the great extent of them, or the effects that may arise from them,
where exceeding large quantities of matter are concerned, and where the
compressive force         is
                        immensely great.      The compressibility and elasticity
of the earth may be collected,       some measure, from the vibration of the
                                              in
walls of houses, occasioned        the passing of carriages
                                         by                        the streets next
                                                                        in
to them. Another instance to the same purpose, may be taken from the
vibrations of steeples, occasioned          the ringing of bells, or
                                                   by                       gusts of
                                                                             by
wind :   not only spires are moved very considerably by this means, but
even strong towers will, sometimes, he made to vibrate several inches, with
out any disjointing of the mortar, or rubbing of the stones against one^an-
other. Now,     it  manifest, that this could not happen, without
                     is                                                       consi
                                                                                  a
derable degree of compressibility and elasticity          the materials, of which
                                                             in
 they are composed    :and     such small things as the weight of steeple?", and
                                    if
the motion of hells        them, or a gust of wind, arc capable of producing
                               in
such effects, what may we not expect from the weight of great depths of
earth?     There are some circumstances, which seem to make                not alto
                                                                             it
gether improbable, that the form and internal structure of the earth de
pend, in a great measure, upon the compressibility aud elasticity of it.
There are several things that seem to argue a considerably greater density
in the internal, than the external part of the earth        and why may not this
                                                              ;
                                                                             greater

26S     Conjectures concerning the Cause, and Observations
fissures, immediately communicating with the hollow left by the
part that fell in, must run out upon the fire, the steam taking
its place.    From hence may be generated a vast quantity of va
pour, the effects of which shall be considered presently.        This
steam will continue to be generated, supposing the fire to be
sufficiently great, till the fissures before mentioned are evacuated,
or till the water begins to flow very slowly; when the steam al
ready formed will be removed by the elasticity of the earth, which
will again subside, and, pressing upon the surface of the melted
matter, will force it up a little way into all the clefts, by which
the water might continue to flow out.        By this means, all com
munication between the fire and the water will be prevented ex
cepting at these clefts, where the water, dripping slowly upon
the melted matter, will gradually form a crust upon          that will        it,
soon stop all further communication in these places likewise                                  ;
and the fissures, that had been before evacuated, will be again
gradually replenished          the oozing of the water between the
                              by
strata.
   "58. As a small quantity of vapour almost instantly generated
at some considerable depth below the surface of the earth, will
produce    a vibratory motion, so very large quantity (whether
                                         a                                                    it
be generated almost instantly, or in any small portion of time)
will produce a wave-like motion.           The manner in which this
wave-like motion will be propagated, may, in some measure, be
greater density be owing to the compression of the internal parts arising
from the weight of the superincumbent matter, since                 probable, that
                                                                   it   is
the matter, of which the earth      composed,
                                   is               pretty much of the same kind
                                                   is
throughout?     There   is a still stronger argument for the earth's owing its
form, in some measure, to the same cause       ; fur    it found to be higher [see
                                                             is
the French   accounts  of the measures   of a degree   of the  meridian in France,
Sweden, and America] at the equator, than at the poles, in greater pro       a
portion than   itwould be on account of the centrifugal force,               was of
                                                                                 if it
uniform density but,;    if we suppose the earth ta be of less density            an     in
equatorial diameter than in the axis, the whole will then be easily accounted
for, from the rising of the earth a little     its elasticity, the weight being in
                                              by
part taken off by the diurnal rotation: and that the earth            really a little
                                                                         is
denser in the axis, than in the equatorial diameter, seems highly probable,
from the experiments of pendulums compared with astronomical observa
tions; for the forms of the earth derived from these, cannot be reconciled
with each other, but upon this supposition.           [See Maclaurin's Fluxions,
art. 681, &c.1 It appears, from some late and accurate observations, that
the equatorial parts of the planet Jupiter also, as well as those of the earth,
are a little higher than they would be,        their rise was owing to the cen
                                              if
trifugal force, and he was of uniform density; but           we suppose him to be
                                                              if
of less density in the equatorial, than the polar regions, then the form may
be such as he would assume from the respective gravitation of the several
parts; and any fluid like our ocean, would not overflow the polar parts,
(which, upon any other supposition,      it must necessarily do,°) but would fol
low his general form, as our ocean does that of the earth.
                                                                              represented

                  upon ike Phcenomena,       of Earthquakes.                                  269
represented by the following experiment.            Suppose a large cloth,
or carpet, (spread upon a floor) to be raised at one edge, and
then suddenly brought down again to the floor, the air under                                   it,
being   by  this means propelled, will pass along, till            escapes at
                                                                          it
the opposite side, raising the cloth in             wave all the way as
                                                     a                                         it
goes.     In like manner,        large quantity of vapour may be con
                                  a
ceived to raise the earth in a wave, as              passes along between
                                                      it
the strata, which       itmay easily separate         an horizontal direc
                                                      in
tion, there being, as have said before, little or no cohesion be
                         I
tween one stratum and another.            The part of the earth that                           is
first raised, being bent from its natural form, will endeavour to
restore itself     by
                    its elasticity, and the parts next to                 it
                                                                    beginning
to have their weight supported          by  $he vapour, which will insi
nuate itself under them, will be raised in their turn, till              either     it
finds some vent, or          again condensed
                             is                          by
                                                       the cold into water,
and   by that means prevented from proceeding any further.
    59. If a large quantity of vapour should continue to be gene
rated for some time, several waves might be produced                        and by  it   ;
this would be, in some measure, the case,               the quantity at first
                                                         if
generated was exceedingly great, though the whole of                        was      it
generated    in  less  time,  than   whilst  the  motion     was  propagated
through the distance between two waves.
    60. These waves must rise the higher, the nearer they are to
the place from whence they have their source                but, at great
                                                              ;                               di
stances from thence, they may rise so little, and so slowly, as not
 to be perceived, but        the motions of waters, hanging branches
                             by
in churches, &c.
  . 61. The vibratory motion         occasioned         the first impulse of
                                                         by
the vapour, will be propagated through the solid parts of the
earth, and therefore,         will much sooner become too weak to be
                             it
perceived,    than  the  wave-like    motion    ;for this latter, being oc
 casioned    by  the vapour insinuating itself between the strata,
 may be propagated to very great distances            and even after
                                                      ;                     has          it
 ceased to be perceived           by
                                  the senses,    itmay still discover itself
by the appearances before mentioned.
    Section IV. — 62. All earthquakes derived from the same sub
terraneous fire, must come to the same place in the same direc
 tion and those only which are derived from different fires, will
    ;
come from different points of the compass                but as, in all pro
                                                         ;
bability,  it seldom    happens    that earthquakes, caused          different by
fires, affect the same place, we therefore           find       general, that
                                                                    in
they come from the same quarter:          it    not, however, to be sup
                                                is
posed, that this should always be the case, for               will, probably,
                                              and this            is it
                                                              to be expected
sometimes happen to be otherwise            :
in such places as are situated         in  the neighbourhood of several
                                                               subterraneous

270      Conjectures concerning the Cause             of Earthquakes.
subterraneous fires; or where, being subject to the shocks of
some local earthquake of small extent, they now and then are
affected by an earthquake, produced by some more distant, but
much more considerable cause.    Of this last case, we seem to
have had some instances in the earthquake of the 1st of Novem
ber 1755, and those local ones, before mentioned, which suc
ceeded    it.
    63. As we may reasonably infer from many earthquakes com
ing to the same place, from the same point of the compass, that
they are all derived from the same cause, and that a permanent
one; so we may reasonably infer the same thing also, from their
being propagated with the same velocity; but this argument will
still come with the greater force, if it be considered, that the ve
locity of any vapour, which insinuates itself between the strata
of the earth, depends upon the depth of it below the surface j
for the deeper it lies, the greater will be its velocity*. We may
therefore conclude, from the sameness of the velocity of the
earthquakes of the same place, that the cause of them lies at the
same depth ; and from the inequality of the velocity of the earth
quakes of different places, that their causes lie at different depths.
Both these are perfectly consistent with the supposition, that
earthquakes owe their origin to subterraneous fires, since the
strata in which these subsist, may be easily conceived to lie at
different depths in different parts of the world.
    Section V. — 64. From thesamecause, we may easily account
for those local earthquakes, which succeed the greater and more
extensive ones.    If there are many subterraneous fires subsisting
in different parts of the world, the vapour coming from one fire
may very well be supposed, as it passes, to disturb the roof over
some other fire, and, by that means, occasion earthquakes by the
falling in of some part of it : and this may be the case, in some
measure, even where the vapour passes at some small distance
over the fire ; but it will be most likely to take place, where the
vapour either passes at some distance under                it,
                                                      or between the
stratum, in which the fire lies, and that next above or below it.
                               [To   be continued.]
 *    The velocity of sucha   vapour, depending entirely upon the elasticity
of  the earth which is  overit,will be, ca teris paribus, (if am not mistaken)
                                                           I
in the ratio of the depth below the surface.      This seems to follow from a
known law of all elastic bodies, according to which they tend to return to
their state of rest, when either dilated or compressed, with forces propor
tionable to the quantity  by  which they differ from their natural bounds.
                                                                   XLII.   On

                              [   271   ]
                     XLII.     On the Swallow.
                           To Mr. Tilloch.
                I                                 29th August, 1818.
                  NTENDING to have collated my former observa
tions on the Swallow with the various occurrences of the present
year, I had purposely postponed any communication regarding
these interesting visitors, till I had either corroborated the facts
I had observed, or corrected any misconceptions in my former
notes, to render the subject of your request on the cover of the
Magazine for May last, as perspicuous and free from doubt
as my opportunity for observation could possibly admit-. I would
even for that reason have deferred writing you on this subject till
their final departure for the season, had not a most singular de
viation from all former habits of a particular class of these myste
rious and undefined migrants, induced me to forward the present
notice, leaving you to judge how far an insertion of the case may
be conducive to obtaining further information from others, so as
to ascertain whether this remarkable event has been local or ge
neral.   The circumstance I allude to is the final departure of the
white-tailed swallow, in the first week of the present month, un
der circumstances rather extraordinary, leaving the chimney swal
low behind.
    The first swallow that made its appearance here this season
was of the chimney species, and first seen carelessly skimming
much higher in the atmosphere than usual, on the forenoon of
the 15th of April. It continued in that elevated situation till the
 19th, when it was joined by two others of the same kind. These
kept close company all that day, but on the 20th the two disap
peared, leaving the solitaire to float about apparently without
any object in view till the evening of the 2Sth. During all this
time the mornings and evenings had continued frosty; a complete
thaw, however, came on in the afternoon of the 2Sth, accompa
nied with a warm black shower, and this was followed on the
morning of the 29th by a general arrival of all the various kinds
of swallow that frequent this quarter.
    Prior to their arrival, I had observed with great pleasure a
sparrow take possession of a swallow's nest, which had stood out
 the winter in the east corner of a bed-room window; and was in
 full expectation of seeing, the repetition of a tragedy that had
 been acted some years before in this neighbourhood. Similar to
 the above, a sparrow had taken early possession of a swallow's
 nest, and had laid some eggs previous to the swallow's appearing
 to claim her castle. The sparrow firmly seated, and thus attached
 to the sheltering shade of its approaching brood, resisted the
 claim of the swallow : a stout battle ensued, in which the swal
                                                                  low

272                      On   the   Swallow.
low was joined by its mate, and during the conflict by several of
their comrades. The sparrow, however, determinedly resisted, and
successfully defended herself against the joint and repeated ef
forts of the assembled swallows to dislodge her. Finding them
selves completely foiled in their endeavours to regain possession,
they, after some consultation, had recourse to an expedient of a
most extraordinary nature and singularly revengeful, and onewhich
showed that it proceeded from a deliberate determination of the
whole group that nothing short of the death of the intruder
could satisfy them, or atone for this usurpation of a property un
questionably the legitimate right of its original constructor. The
swallows for a time departed, leaving the sparrow apparently in
the full enjoyment of her conquest. This prospect of repose, how
ever, was only delusive; for the swallows returned with accumu
lated numbers, each bearing a beak full of building materials ;
and without any further attempt to disturb or beat out the spar
row, they instantly set to work and built up the entrance into
the nest, inclosing the sparrow within the clay tenement, and
leaving her to perish in the garrison she had so bravely defended.
   In my expectations in the present instance, however, I was
disappointed.    The sparrow had but recently taken possession,
had laid no eggs, and having less to contend for was sooner dis
lodged, but not without considerable resistance ; the noise of
which, with the beating of their wings against the glass, waked
me in the morning, and gave the first notice of their arrival, on
which I got out of bed and witnessed the termination of the
action.
  The bustle of regaining possession being over, a general ex
amination of all the old nests in the different windows took place,
the partial injuries sustained during the past winter were repaired;
 the insidcs cleaned out, each nest new furnished and feathered ;
and the old pairs were no sooner settled in quiet possession of
their former abode, than they began assisting the young of the
former year in choosing secure situations for new habitations for
themselves, and joined in the labour of building them. The con
struction of the swallow's nest is never executed by the solitary
labour of the single pair destined to occupy    it, but   bythe joint
labour of the community, as shall be noticed in the sequel and ;
is moreover a work of extreme nicety and great entertainment to
an attentive observer, considering with what method and regu
larity these little animals conduct the whole process.
   But not to lose sight of the main object of this communica
tion — the sudden and early departure of the white-tailed swal
lows, whose former migrations were always in unison with the other
classes of the species. They arrived with the others  :    was these
                                                          it
that were found contending with the sparrow for the nest, which

                                    On the Swallow.                           273
  they no sooner possessed and put in a comfortable state, than
  they, with the others of their kin, began the duties of the sea
 son; and by the 1st of July their first brood were full fledged and
  flown, and    l>y the 4th of July the nests were thoroughly cleaned
 out, new furnished and feathered, and their second incubation
 begun, some new nests built, and one of               very particular con
                                                        a
 struction completed. Notwithstanding all this,             by
                                                            the middle of the
 month they began to assemble in groups upon the roof of the dry
 ing-house, the ordinary place of general resort for all classes prior
 to the usual departure for the season.           was rather surprised the
                                                    I
 first two or three evenings of their grouping, knowing from their
 former habits that this was indicative of change.  a             had all their
                                                                    I
 nests examined, and found one, two, and three eggs in each, — none
 without an egg.          could then hardly allow myself to believe
                           I                                                   it
 possible during so fine        season, and at so early
                                    a                          period of the
                                                                 a
 year,   that their  intentions   were migratory.       In  this,  however,    i
 was soon undeceived          the training exercise,
                                ;                        or   preparation of
 the young brood for the destined flight, immediately commenced,
 and they finally roosted among          collection of bull-rushes grow
                                            a
 ing on a    bank      the midst of the Leven; from which they took
                      in
 their final departure on the fourth night of their occupation of
 this retreat, and have never since been seen.
    After no doubt could remain of their being off, conceived this an
                                                            I
 excellent opportunity of putting their fancied submerging among
 the flags and rushes, along the banks of lakes and rivers, to the
test of actual survey and experiment.            Two stout men instantly
volunteered their services, and immediately stripped, went into the
 river, searched all the flags, rushes, banks and braes round and
 near the spot where they were last seen.            Not      hole nor stone
                                                                a
 was left unexamined       and the roots of the rushes and even the mud
                                ;
 were most carefully handled, and the shelvings under the banks.
 In short, no creature could possibly have escaped the pursuit, nor
eluded in any way the unwearied anxiety and diligence of the
 searchers  ;  but not       feather nor
                                a             swallow was to be found.
                                                a
 The theory of their submerging, in my opinion,                 all a dream,
                                                                    is
in which this search has gone its length to confirm me; and the
 following anecdote may not be improperly narrated, as                   refers
                                                                         it
 to the refutation of this same absurd opinion            — :On the 1th of
                                                                         1
April 1812, returning from Glasgow with friend, we stopped
                                                        a
at Kinross to corn our horses and take             parting dinner. Before
                                                    a
dinner was ready we took          turn down
                                        a     to  the Old Chapel, and re
turning   by  the loch side, we both expressed our astonishment at
the vast assemblage of swallows, the first we had seen that season,
hovering over the surface of that corner of the lake which runs up
towards the town         the south sideof Kinross plantation. "What!"
                           by
said my companion,              "
                             can the creatures have emerged from the
     Vol. 52. No. 216. Oct. 1818.                       S             water    ?

274                        On the Swallow.
water ? Some people assert that they hibernate at the bottom of
lakes and rivers. // must be so: see, there is one just risen."
   To a superficial observer they certainly had all the appearance
of just emerging from the bosom of the lake. But looking atten
tively, we perceived them regularly descending in a slanting direc
tion, and take something from the surface of the water, in which
exercise they always, in skimming, struck the water with their
breast, dashing a spray, round them, which looked very much
like to shaking the water from their wings. This I have since
observed a thousand times, in the swallow skimming the river
or mill-dam, catching the water-flies; but which, to persons not
interesting themselves in the result, and at some little distance
from the scene of action, is certainly very delusive, and without
a close inspection and very attentive observation, apt to leave
that impression of their emerging from the water upon the mind.
The weather was still cold, and not a   fly  abroadin  the air to sup
port them     no doubt remained with us of their thus gathering
              :
food  ; an idea in which we were soon strengthened,       by  stepping
down to the edge of the lake, and seeing the surface of the water
all along the shore, and as far as the eye could reach, swarming
with innumerable insects       inappearance like gross gun-powder,
and the water itself filled with the maggot of    a   water-fly, upon
which there can be no doubt whatever the birds were feeding. —
Some similar occurrences must have given birth to the delusion
of submerging and the gentleman who so confidently asserts
                  ;
that he saw them with his own eyes coming up from the lake
and shake the water from their wings, must have been deceived
with his eyes open    by a corresponding event.
 I    am perfectly satisfied, from  a variety of circumstances, that
the same swallows return to the same spot from whence they
emigrate from year to year in this was particularly confirmed
                                :       I
on the morning of their arrival this season,          pair of chimney
                                                 by
                                                 a
swallows that had nestled for years before in a cellar above the
coal-shed, to which they had access         byan opening in the roof
that had been closed after their departure to keep out the winter
drift. The first things    Isaw upon looking towards the boiling-
house that morning, were these swallows flying about the cellar,
searching with great anxiety every tile in the roof for an entry
to their old dwelling. I   no sooner got down than an opening was
made, through which they immediately passed, while       I     had not
retired   ayard from the spot, and seemed quite overjoyed to find
their former incubat entire. When       I  entered the boiling-house
all was noise and merriment twelve nests they had occupied the
                                ;
preceding year were all entire, uninjured, and again in possession
of the chimney swallows, their former occupants.
 I    cannot suppose that stranger swallows could with equal      fa
                                                                cility

                                 On the Swallow.                              275
cility have found these old nests ; neither would they undisturbed
go so immediately about their labour, amidst a crowd of people
often passing through the group at arms length, perching upon
the wringers and poles within a couple of yards of the servants,
chanting their little song, and looking at the men and women
with all the familiarity and confidence of old friends. This was
as much the case the day of their arrival as it had been at any
period before their departure the preceding year.                These must
unquestionably    be  the   identical    swallows   we  have  had   in former
years. The rattling      of   wringers,     the  thumping    of  buttles, the
 noise of wheels and pumps,       nor   the  steam  of the  boilers  ever an
noy them, which would not likely be               the  case with   strangers.
Although the whole group of mingled men and women may be
 collected inside or outside the door, laughing and making sport,
 the swallowwill pass in and out, sometimes          flythrough the crowd,
 and sometimes over and almost touching their heads, withoutshow-
 ing the least symptom of dread, any more than             if the space was
unoccupied.      No violence         allowed to be offered to them, and
                                      is
nothing gives them the least uneasiness but the appearance of                      a
 hawk or a cat. When         aswallow observes either of these animals,
particularly the cat, an alarm              instantly given
                                           is                   by
                                                                 a particular
 sharp call, when       number assemble, flying about, darting at
                        a
 puss with such celerity and from so many points at once^ as to
 distract, tease, and vex her, till the heart-sick tabby               fain to.
                                                                         is
seek shelter under the nearest cover.
    What may be termed the domestic habits of the swallow are
highly amusing, and often afford no small entertainment, parti
cularly in such situations as ours, where all their little manoeu
vres and gambols are open to view              and the whole colony
                                                ;                           inis
intimate   habits  of association     with   the  inmates, with whose ap
pearance   I   am fully satisfied they really become perfectly ac
quainted, and do distinguish the approach of strangers. One
instance may be narrated — pair of chimney swallows annually
                                  :    A
build in the evaporating shed, often so low that the man who
attends the pans can,            by
                                raising himself a-tiptoe, look into the
nest. His inclination        to protect them, and his instructions are
                            is
to allow nothing whatever to molest them            :  they are so very         fa
miliar with this individual, and those in the daily habit of look
ing over and assisting him, that they build and trim their nests,
set, and feed their young, without showing the least uneasiness,
although he, or any with whom they are acquainted, stand and
look so near as to blow their breath into the nest. Passing the
shed-door one day, the swallows were heard in the greatest state
of alarm, their cry indicating the utmost terror. My brother
called, " Clunie, what       isthe matter with the swallows look and ?
see that no cat    isnear them."         Not receiving so ready an an-
                                                                              swer
                                           S
                                           2

  276                      On the Swallow.
 swer as usual, he mounted the short trap, and after passing through
 the steam, found Andrew with a pair of rider spectacles on his
 nose, carefully and wistfully poring over a copy of Bunyan's Holy
"War, and keenly debating with a packman about the inputs in
 exchange with a well worn copy of Pilgrim's Progress, that had
"been his constant companion for many years.          They were de
 sired to go down and settle the balance outside the door, and
the pans would be attended to till the matter was adjusted. The
 packman had no sooner walked out, than the swallows gave over
 their noise and fluttering.    The sire departed in quest of food,
 and the dam returned to the nest as if nothing had happened,
 while we stood so near as by stretching out our arm we might
 have touched the bird on her seat.
    To the swallow I feel very much inclined to attribute a degree
 of knowledge and sagacity rather beyond the bounds of credi
 bility ; and would allow them, in point of mental endowment, a
 rank amongst the feathered tribes equal to what the beaver holds
 in the gradations of the mammalia upon earth. That they are go
 verned by certain laws, that may be termed instinct, cannot be
 refused.   But that they also possess a reasoning faculty, with the
 power of conceiving, communicating, and receiving ideas, — in
 short, that they actually possess in some degree the gift of speech,
 I am equally satisfied.
    They convene meetings for general welfare ; they converse, de
 liberate, and consult; project plans, and act with method and re
 gularity and in concert in the execution ; unite in defence, and
 when necessary call in the aid of distant colonies in punishment
 of aggressors. They take a general interest in the individual safety
 of every member and family belonging to their community ; re
 pair the injuries sustained, as one common concern ; protect the
 young, and feed the orphan, when any accident deprives them of
 the fostering protection and care of their natural parents.
    In June 1816, some young gentlemen disappointed in duck-
 shooting from the wetness of the morning, after the weather
 cleared up a little, not knowing the protection afforded here to
 the gentle and inoffensive swallow, these sons of sport and festi
 vity fired a few rounds for their amusement, and unfortunately
 brought some of the parent swallows to the ground, among the
 rest, both parents of a young brood of five, in a nest placed in
 the corner of one of the windows of my premises, while in the
 very act of skimming into the nest with a Tjeakfull of flies. They
 were really sorry for this.     Conceiving the young must perish
 from hunger, I intended taking them into the house and try to
bring them up, under the care of the children, who had under
 taken to catch flies for them.     This, however, was found unne
 cessary  ; the  news  of the  calamity  had spread over the colony,
                                                                 and

                             On the Swallow.                       277
   and a collection of parent swallows had gathered. — The state of
   the nest and the young was taken under review, and arrange
   ments immediately gone into for the protection and support of
   the helpless orphans : their support was brought them before
   leaving them for the night : and next day the sympathetic and
   benevolent office of feeding them was carried on with so much
   parental care, that they were as regularly fed, and as soon fledged
   and on the wing, as anv nest about the field. I mention this lat
   ter part as a proof that they lacked nothing in common with the
   young of other nests ; as I have for years uniformly found, that
   good or bad weather, about nursing time, will make a difference
   of a week, and sometimes more, in the flight of the young, which
   must be in proportion to the quantum of food delivered into the
  nest, and this must be greater in good weather when the flies are
   more numerous.      During bad weather, when few flies are on the
   wing, the swallows must feed very sparingly. Their powers of di
   gestion during the season of plenty must be very rapid. In some
   warm days when the flies were numerous, I have cleaned the
  stones under different nests to ascertain the number of drops that
   fell from the voung, and found four and sometimes five drops from
   each bird in the course of an hour : in bad weather sometimes
  only one, two, or three from each, just in proportion to the quan
  tity of flies given, and the state of the atmosphere for catching
  them.      Only a few days had elapsed, when the joint assistance
  and labour of the whole colony was again put in requisition. A
  nest built in the west corner of a back room window facing the
  north was so much softened by rain beating in that direction, from
  the severity of a violent storm from the north-east, as to render
  it unfit to support the weight of a superincumbent load of five
  well grown young swallows : during the storm the nest fell into
  the corner below, leaving the young brood exposed to all the in
  clemency of the blast. To save the poor things from untimely
  death, a covering was thrown over them till the severity of the
  storm abated. This had no sooner subsided than the sages as
 sembled, fluttering round the window and hovering over the tem
  porary covering of the fallen nest, which was removed as soon as
  this careful anxiety was discovered, and the utmost joy evinced
 by the group on finding the young ones alive and unhurt. After
 feeding them, the members of this assembled community arranged
 themselves into working order; each division, taking its appro
 priate station, fell to instant labour, and before nightfall had
jointly completed an arched canopy over the young, and securelv
 covered them against a succeeding blast; Calculating the time
 occupied by the assembly to perform this piece of architecture,
 it appeared evident the young must have perished from hunger
or cold before any single pair could have executed half the job.
                                  S 3                          Awiire

27S                       On (he Swallow.
Aware by this example of the danger of this situation, no attempt
has ever been made to build in either corner of that window again.
Nothing so much indicates superior understanding in the whole
arranged dispositions of the swallow, or deserves so much atten
tion, as the order, regularity, and method observed in the construc
tion and execution of their nests, their oeconomy and frugality in
expediting the various operations by the division of labour, and
taking the advantage of every' wind that blows to accomplish the
grand object ; their sagacity in selecting situations, and placing
the entrance into the nest to leeward of the storm ; their wisdom
in the choice and mixture of materials, and the wonderful art
with which these are adapted to the different positions and change
of form, regulated by existing circumstances; — arrangements cer
tainly far beyond the power of instinct.
    When a situation has been once fixed upon for a new nest, be
fore a particle of building material is laid, every bearing of the
intended site is minutely examined by a few of the sages, during
which a great deal of conversation and reasoning goes on ; plans
are proposed, and one ultimately fixed upon before proceeding to
 the work.     Matters being thus, far adjusted, a number collect —
 sometimes above a dozen — and form themselves into divisions,
 for the distribution of labour, before commencing operations ; the
number assembled is always in proportion to the extent of work
 and number of nests to be carried on at the same time. I have
known from two to five nests in a progressive state of forward
 ness, all carrying forward at the same time by the same asso
 ciated band of operators.
     When a place for mortar- making has been selected, the whole
 band commence operations by gathering a beakfull of chopped
 straw or hay, generally taken from dry horse droppings either
 about the field or from the high road; with this they repair to
 the place appointed, and commence mortar-making             by mixing
 this with clayey soil, rendered additionally unctuous by their
 working it with their beaks; and all, as ready,      flyoff with their
 load and begin building.       When the foundation has attained
 the size of small walnut, one experienced builder remains sta
             a
 tionary,a   proportionate number at the mortar hole, and division
                                                             a
  of straw gatherers and carriers carry on the work till the weight
  and softness of the new made materials endanger the falling of
  the whole. Then, this nest    is left off, and time in proportion to
  the state of the  weather  given forit   to harden firm and dry, and
  the whole band goes to the next; and after carrying       it   similar
                                                                 a
  length, leaves it  in the same manner, for the same purpose, and
  goes to the third, the fourth,  a  fifth, and again returns in rota
  tion to the first, and so going repeatedly over the whole till the
  labouris  completely accomplished. During the whole of these ope
                                                                 rations

                           On the Swallow.                          279
 rations the grand master builder, who is sometimes relieved by
 turns, shows his skill and experience in the art of building, by
 proportioning the radius of the nest, the acuteness or obliquity of
 the angles, in strict proportion to the distance and bearing of the
 abutments, and thickens the wall proportionately           to the te
 nacity of the materials, every morsel of which he carefully exa
 mines before it is laid on, and if satisfactory, a pleasing chit-chat
 passes between the parties.     But if insufficient, in any respect,
 the tone of the grand master is soon changed, and a violent
 altercation takes place.     I have seen the imperfect materials
 rejected and thrown down with great apparent wrath and in
 dignation, and the carrier dispatched with a scold for a fresh
 load.    It was during my attention to these little operations that
 I first conceived them possessed of the gift of speech. Would
 any one, who may have time and opportunity, within ear capa
 ble of distinguishing the minute variations of sound, attentively
 listen to the different conversations that pass on these occasions ;
 the orders given, and communications received ; the varied ca
dence of the articulated notes ; the pleasing mildness with which
 this is conducted in good humour ; the fierce volubility and fu
 rious manner in cases of reproof or scolding; I am satisfied an
impartial auditor would mark these wonderful migrants as gifted
with the power of mutual communication by articulate sounds,
without which how could so much harmony be conceived or works
of art executed ? From the sagacity of the swallow the glass-
 maker has received his best lesson for building his pots, a mat
ter not of the least consequence in that art.
     There is just now a new nest, built by the white-tailed swallow
 a short time before their departure, which displays more than
 ordinary wisdom and sagacity in the execution.         It is placed in
 the west corner of a window facing the south, and covers more
than a fourth of the glass of that pane. The operations went on
much in the usual style, till better than half built ; when, instead
of going forward with the work, and leaving the entrance thereto
at the top as usual, they made a halt at that side next the glass,
to which they were conscious their mortar could not have ad
hered with sufficient tenacity, and where the great burden of the
nest must have rested. Thus the safety of the whole would have
been endangered. The outside of the nest furthest from the glass
was carried up the full height, closed in, and made good to the up
per lintel. Returning to the unfinished part, they carried up a pillar
by the side of, and leaning to, the glass, upon which they formed
a capital projecting outwards from the glass. On the opposite
side, upon that part of the nest carried forward and completed,
they formed a corresponding butment ; between these they con-
                                 S 4                           structed

2S0                        On the Swallow.
structed a regular arch, and over this arch carried up a super
structure of exquisite workmanship for delicacy and lightness of
execution, and covered in the whole habitation, leaving the en
trance in the weakest part, now rendered secure by the slight-
ness of the work and lightness of the materials. — Should this
nest have the good fortune to stand out the storms of winter, I
hope by the return, of summer to have an opportunity of seeing
and attending to the mode of feeding their young, through the
uncovered part of the glass ; by this I can see all passing within
the nest from the light transmitted through the opening. — Their
mode of feeding, from what I have already observed, differs from
that of other birds, who feed all in rotation, pick about.        The
swallows,   so soon  as the  young are able to move  themselves    for
ward to the entrance of the nest, allow one to take possession of
the opening^uid remain there, receiving and swallowing every
 fly thatis brought   by  the dam and sire, till completely gorged.
He then turns round, lets fall his drop, and retires to rest, when
another takes his place, acts     in the same manner, and retires
from the same cause, giving place to the rest in rotation.        The
swallows no sooner get the first brood (which in good weather               is
generally about the 1st of July) fairly on wing, than they, as              if
conscious of the value of their time, instantly commence their
                                                               is by
second incubation, and have their second brood abroad            about
 the middle of September, after which no further attempt         made
 to breed. The remaining part of their time     isoccupied in train
ing the young for their ultimate flight. This        conducted with
                                                     is
great regularity and order for ten or twelve days before the final
departure.     After the business of food gathering for the day             is
over, they assemble  in  multitudes from all quarters and of all kinds
 in one general convention upon the roof of the drying-house,
 chanting their little song or evening hymn. While the -assembly
 are all seated on the roof, one (who seems commander-in-chief)
 keeps aloft on wing, flying round and round; at last darting with
great swiftness from the rest, with    a  loud, sharp, and repeated
 call, he gives the word of command. That instant all           silent.
                                                               is
 The whole are instantly on the wing, directing their flight in
 perfect order, rising upwards in the most beautiful spiral track,
 and are in a moment beyond the reach of human eye.
     In a quiet night they may be heard after they are not seen. —
 They remain in the upper regions of the atmosphere for, perhaps,
  a quarter to half an hour, when they all return by scores and do
 zens to the place from whence they took their flight. This they
 will repeat twice or thrice in an evening when the weather fair       is
 and kindly.
    The deviation of the white-tailed swallow this year consider
                                                           I
                                                                a very

                           On the Swalloiv.                       281
a very unaccountable event, and the only instance of the kind I
ever remember. They always, in common with the other swal
low, produced twice, and used to foster their young to the last.
I have known both kinds in a bad season, when short of flies, t&
nourish and bring forward their young, abandon whole nests of
the last sittings to perish, when the ultimate period of departure
arrived, but never knew them separate and leave the other divi
sions behind.     There must be some strange unknown cause for
this extraordinary resolution. At first I dreaded that it prognos
ticated some unprecedented change of temperature, or con-'
vulsion of the elements. When entertaining that idea, I could not
help remarking the appearance of a cock robin, who, two days
after their departure, came hopping into the boiling house intro
ducing one of his sons, looking round, and with his accustomed
familiarity strutting through the house, viewing every one as he
passed, without concern or alarm.
    The ultimate hibernation of the swallow I am of opinion wilt
for ever remain a mystery, unless aerial navigation come to that
 state of perfection as to make voyages from Pole to Pole. Then
they may be detected in the utmost regions of the atmosphere far
 beyond the rage of elements and strife of storms. — To whatever
 clime or part of the world they proceed, their flight is at an ele
 vation far beyond the reach of optics. They depart with the first
 ray of the morning, and so directly upwards as to elude all re
 search.    They return with the first dawn of the day, but from
 whence no man can tell ; they drop as from the clouds, and take
 up their abode in the former haunts as if they had just left them
 the hour before.    On the 1st of April 180!), I had occasion to
 be at the village of Ceres ; the morning was remarkably clear,
 with a cloudless sky of beautiful azure. Standing a little before
 the door of my friend, remarking the fineness of the morning and
 clearness of the sky, my friend desired me to look at a small but
 well defined dark spot that had just caught his eye at a very great
 height in the air.    I soon perceived the object ; it remained for
 some time apparently stationary, but increasing in size, from the
 object's approach being in "a direct line to the spot where we
 stood. Continuing to keep an eye on the object for some time,
  we at last discovered*it to be a swallow flying with immense ve
 locity, which like an arrow from a bow darted into an old nest in
 my friend's window.
    These straggling swallows, " for one swallow never made sum
 mer," I conceive mere espionage directed from the main body, like
  Noah's dove to spv and report on the appearance of the earth, or
 to find the longitude or latitude of their flight, or to find if near
 the former haunt of a colony. When that is the case, the first re
                                                                main,

282     Specific Gravity   of the Human Body and Sea Water.
main, a second and a third are dispatched for intelligence, who
return and inform their associates ; who, fmding how the lands
lie, depart from the body,'taking possession of their domains, and
wishing those behind good morning.
                                                   Gavin Inglis.
XLIII.      On the real Difference between the specific Gravity of
    the   Human Body and Sea Water. By Knight Spencer,
    Esq.
                            To  Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, — In     September 1815, you did me the favour to insert in
your    Magazine   the result of an experiment which I had made
with a view to ascertain how much the human body is specifi
cally lighter than sea-water ; and, in answering your question
respecting the same in the month of November of that year, I
promised to repeat the experiment, with this difference, that        I
would make it in my usual dress, instead of being naked, the in
tention of which was, to ascertain what greater degree of danger
 (if any) would in consequence be incurred, either in the case of
falling overboard, or in plunging into the sea without the delay
of undressing, to prevent a fellow-creature from drowning, — and,
generally speaking, to induce that fair degree of confidence which
the knowledge of the real difference between the specific gravity
of the human body and sea-water ought to inspire.
    Circumstances have, until the present' autumn, prevented me
fulfilling my promise.      I have now to state, that in August last
I took the opportunity of a smooth sea for my experiment; and,
in addition to my usual clothing (which weighed five pounds) T
borrowed from the guide who attends the machines, a pair of
heavy shoes with much iron about them, weighing three pounds
and a half ; and with flints in each hand weighing together six
pounds two ounces, being altogether fourteen pounds ten ounces
avoirdupois, I threw myself upon my back in the water, and
 floated upon the surface without the smallest motion whatever,
so much at my ease as to converse with my friends on the beach,
and with the toes of the heavy shoes just visible above the surface.
     If the fact established by this experiment were more generally
 known, I think it could not fail to induce many timid persons to
 become expert swimmers, who are now afraid to venture into the
 sea at all.
    Before I close this letter, permit me, Sir, to state another fact,
 which cannot fail to give confidence to those who are learning to
                                                              swim —

                   Hungarian Agriculture,             &c.          283
swim — and all young men, both for their own safety and the wel
fare of society, ought to learn this pleasing and healthy art.
   At the time I was about to make my experiment, I observed
four boys take a boat, go into deep water, undress, and plunge in
one after the other, range themselves in a line, and actually play
a game ai leap-frog for at least a quarter of a mile. The last boy,
swimming to the boy immediately before him, placed his hands
on his shoulders, popped him under water, and then swam to the
next ; the boy who was popped under water, on rising, swam to
the boy immediately before him, popped him under in his turn,
and so on till they reached the shore.
   I assure you, sir, that Captain Shandy, when carrying on the"
siege of Dendermonde,      did not feel a stronger desire to have a
pull at Corporal Trim's smoking mortars, than I did to make
                                             I am, sir,
                                       Your obedient servant,
                                                     Knight Spencer.
  P. S. I omitted to state that I swam out into deep water, with
out the flints, and found no other inconvenience than a slight im
pediment to my progress from the drag of the laps of my coat.
XLIV. Hungarian Agriculture,   and Improvements in the Ma
   nagement of Sheep and Cattle, as practised on the Estate of
   Graf Hunyadi, at Urmeny, in Lower Hungary *.
w
A
      e proceeded to visit one of the Graf's farms, called Keszi.
   large collection of peasants, with their cattle and ploughs,
were at work on one part of it.      The system here adopted is
nearly the common agriculture of the country, the usual succes
sion of crops being,
    1st year, wheat and rye, sown in winter.
   2d year, grain of various sorts, sown in spring.
   3d year, fallow.
   4th year, winter grain.
    5th year, spring grain.
    6th year, fallow, with manure and good dunging, and so on,
a simple fallow every third, and manuring every sixth year.
    Maize is one of the most productive crops.    It is planted in
April, and cut in September or October, yielding thirty-fold,
whilst other crops yield not more than ten-fold at the utmost.
    Turnips have been fairly tried without success, on account of
the dryness which usually prevails during the summer months.
    The land is ploughed very shallow, seldom above three inches,
                     * From Dr.           ;'s   Travels.
                                Bright'
                                                                   with

                                                                          '
 284     Hungarian Agriculture, and Improvement in                  the
 with a plough which has its share almost horizontal.      The whole
 of the grain, except the maize,  is broad-cast,  and  rubbed in with
 a brush harrow.    As well as I could judge,  from  the winter crops
  all looking green and well at the time I saw them, the seed is
  sown with great regularity.       The maize is put in the ground
  by women who follow after the plough, and with a hoe turn back
  a little mould, drop a few grains, arid immediately replace the
  earth.
     At the farm of Keszi the Graf likewise keeps the most exten
  sive flocks which he possesses in this part of Hungary, consisting
  of about twelve hundred sheep, which have now been ten years
  under improvement.        In the care of them he employs one chief
  shepherd and six men. The sheep are divided into flocks of
  from one hundred to two hundred, as circumstauces may require;
  and we arrived just as they were following their shepherds in va
  rious directions, over a wide extent of sweet pasture resembling
  our English downs.
     Amongst other objects interesting to the agriculturist, was an
  excellent range of cow-stalls, and one of the large bee-houses,
  which are often very valuable in Hungary, but this was some
  what neglected.
      It was here that we found the finest of all the Hunyadi flocks,
  and that upon which the proprietor chiefly depends for his future
  progress.    I shall therefore take this opportunity to speak more
  at large respecting the breed, and the care taken in its improve
  ment.     The original breed of Hungarian sheep        is,in fact, the
 real Ov strepsiceros of authors, covered with very coarse wool,
         is
 and bearing upright spiral horns. Improvement on this stock                  by
 crosses, with other varieties,   is  become so general, that         flock
                                                                      a
 of the native race    is   seldom to be met with, excepting upon
 the estates of the clergy.
     The great improvement has been         by the introduction of Spa
 nish blood.     Some of the great proprietors have themselves im
 ported from Spain; others have obtained rams from the flocks
 of the Emperor of Austria, and others from various private sources;
 so that at present there   is scarcely any flock of importance which
 lias not derived advantage from the Spanish cross.
     In the year 1773, royal flock was established at Mercopail,
                       a
 to assist in the general improvement.        This has, however, been
 latterly somewhat neglected, on account of another since formed
 at Holitsch.     The wool  is  now a  great object of commerce.         In
 1S02, it    was calculated that above twelve million and a half
pfund was exported from Hungary;        a  large portion of which goes
into Austria, and     is  either there manufactured, or         carried to
                                                               is
more distant markets; and much of that which             issold      Eng
                                                                     in
land, under the denomination of Saxon wool,         is actually the pro
                                                                      duce

                       Management       of Sheep      and Cattle.                     285
duce   of Hungary, exported in spite of the heavy duty it                      pays   on
 leaving the Austrian dominions.
     It is about fourteen years since the first Spanish sheep were
 introduced upon the Hunyadi estates, from Moravia, where Ba
 ron Geisler had been many years employed in improving the
breed.      Since that time the Graf has exercised unwearied assi
 duity  in  crossing and recrossing, and introducing new and more
 perfect Merinos.         By keeping the most accurate registers of the
pedigree of each sheep, he has been enabled to proceed, with a
degree of mathematical precision, in' the regular and progressive
improvement of his whole stock. Out of the seventeen thousand
sheep composing his flock, there is not one whose whole family
he cannot trace by reference to his books ; and he regulates his
yearly sales by these registers.         He considers the purity of blood
the first requisite towards perfection in the fleece ; but he is well
aware that little can be done, unless the sheep be kept in health
and condition.         For this purpose, he has adopted a system of
folding, which,      as  far as I can judge, is almost perfect; and the
whole is conducted with so much accuracy, that I contemplated
it with pleasure and astonishment.
    At each of the head-quarters             (if
                                              I may so term them) of his
sheep, well-built sheds are constructed, having brick pillars at
 certain distances, which leave about half the side open, and thus
admit a free circulation of ak during summer, and afford easy
means of excluding the cold in winter.             The height of the sheds
is  about seven feet to the springing of the roof; and they are
divided     bylittle racks, into such spaces as are necessary for the
division amongst the flocks.           Racks are also arranged round the
whole, so that all the sheep can conveniently feed at them. The
floor  is covered with straw, and the upper layer being continually
renewed,    a  dry and warm bedding            obtained.
                                                 is
    In these houses the sheep are kept almost constantly during
winter, that     is, from November till April, and are then fed three
times a-day upon dry food.               They are watered twice a-day,
from   a  well close at hand.         Even during summer, the sheep are
driven under cover every evening, and they are conducted home
in the day-time when        it   rains, or when the heat       oppressive.
                                                                     is
They always lamb in the house the ewe being placed, upon
                                             ;
this occasion, in      a  little pen    by
                                         herself, where she remains un
molested.       These pens are about three feet long              two feetby
wide,   and   are  formed      by means   of hurdles.       owing to this
                                                           It   is
care that they never lose           alamb.    But,  to give  more perfect
                                                                a
and connected idea of the minute order and extreme care taken
in this establishment, and to gratify those who are really inter
ested in the subject,      I    am induced to insert, at the end of the
present chapter,       the   regulations made         by
                                                    Graf Hunyadi. They
                                                                     came

2S6     Hungarian Agriculture, and Improvement in the
came into my hands through a very circuitous medium, and I
trust a sufficient apology, for publishing private directions of
this nature, will be found, in a wish to point out to my English
readers the assiduous exertions of a Hungarian noble, who
takes the lead in the agriculture of his country, and in my un
willingness that they should be deprived of the valuable hints
which may be thus afforded. Their utility makes them, almost
public property; and I foresee no inconvenience that can arise
from making them known.
    The first idea on reading these regulations will probably be,
that, while they look well, in a theoretical point of view, they are
too nice for practice.         Such, however, is not the case.      \ be
lieve, from all which 1 saw, that they are completely put in exe
cution at Urmeny. The Graf has, indeed, one advantage, which
will not often be found ; he has inspired all his officers and ser
vants with an interest in. the subject.        The number of persons
employed     is  about one   man  to every  hundred   sheep, and each of
them considers his flock as his family and pride.
    The result of all this care has been a success which could
scarcely have been anticipated.           A conception can hardly be
formed of flocks more uniformly excellent. The sheep are strong
 and healthy; and, for the Spanish cross, large.            Their fleeces
perfect, — not a lock broken or displaced, — and even the tail and
legs covered with good wool.          It
                                      is,  of course, the wool, and not
 the carcase, which   is   the great object in   a country so poor, and
 so thinly peopled, as Hungary.
    The pfund   (I   '23 lb. avoirdupois) of wool on the spot, yields
 nearly one and  a    half silver gulden, which, as the gulden varies,
 according to the course of exchange, from one-seventh to one-
 ninth of  a     pound sterling, is   between 3s. and 4s. 6d.      Three
 pfund (about 3f lbs.)     is estimated as about the average product
 of each sheep. Some, however, particularly the rams, yield six
 or seven.      The whole of the wool, without any separation, and
 only  washed    on the back of the sheep,  is   sold at the same price;
 and the consequence       is,that, from flocks which,   if covered with
 the ordinary wool of the country, might be expected to yield an
 income of '15,000 or 20,000 guldens, not less than 50,000
 guldens are now annually produced.
     In this sketch of the Hunyadi oeconomy, must not neglect
                                                     I
 the horned cattle.       The native Hungarian breed bears much
 resemblance to the wild white species which was formerly found
 in our own country.        They are large, vigorous, and active, of   a
 dirty  white   colour, with horns of a    prodigious length, exceeding
 in this respect even the long-horned breed of Lancashire.            The
 oxen are most excellently adapted for the plough,uniting to all the
 qualities of the ordinary ox,   a   very superior degree of activity.

                  Management          of Sheep     and Cattle.                       287
  The cow        is,
                perhaps, deficient in milk yet,        care in the
                                                          ;        by
choice of the best, and attention to regular milking, the quantity
given   by one has been increased to 2000 quarts                   in
                                                                  year. a  In
general, the dairy of the Graf consists of crosses of the Styrian
breed, or the still more valued breeds of Switzerland, of which
one in his possession gave 3400 quarts in the year.               The cows
are constantly      in   the  house  during    the  whole    year, and are
brushed and cleaned like horses daily; their stalls are kept per
fectly neat, and are very well constructed.           raised passage about
                                                          A
three feet broad, runs along the middle of the building, on each
side of which the cows are arranged with their heads towards
each other.     This passage      isboarded on its sides and floor, and
enables the servants employed, both to look at and feed the cat
tle with the greatest convenience.
   Besides common cattle, the Graf has about               dozen buffaloes,
                                                              a
singularly uncouth animals; their carcase in proportion to their
height, which      isinferior to that of cow, very round and broad.
                                               a
Their colour     isblack, their hair coarse, and so scanty that the
skin is  discernible in every part.       The tail more nearly resem
bles that of the elephant than of the ox and the head  ;                  so        is
placed in    a  horizontal position, with the nose stretched for
ward, that their horns usually lie on their shoulders.            The noise
they make has no resemblance to the lowing of cow,             a      rather
                                                                        it   is
a shrill snort.    They are bred in Hungary for the same purposes
as ordinary cattle.       The milk which they give richer than other
                                                              is
milk, and considerable in quantity.            single animal yielded 1470
                                               A
quarts in the year.          As beasts of labour, they are excessively
strong, but they are slow and unmanageable.
   The dairy establishments are distributed               different places,
                                                              in
and put under the care of resident servants or peasants, who
have to account to the proprietor for the produce chiefly in but
ter.  A    steward or trusty person attends each day to see how
much milk    is  obtained.      At certain intervals the trial      made to
discover what quantities of butter should be yielded                    by is
                                                                       given    a
quantity of milk, and thus good check
                                  a                placed upon all parties
                                                     is
employed.        A regular register        also kept of the quantity of
                                          is
milk given monthly           by
                             each cow, for the purpose of ascertaining
what calves particularly deserve to be reared.              shall here con
                                                               I
clude the subject           by
                           subjoining a short extract of two or three
items from such         register.
                        a
                                                                                Name.

                                                                                                                     Produced
                                                                                                                                                    Destination                                           5
                                                                                         a.                          Bull   Cow     Name                                    Observations.
           Name.
                                                          May.   June.           Aug.    V     Xi O
                                                                         ¦—                           Nov.           Calf   Calf   SofCalf.   of    Calf,    of Cow
                                                                         ¦
         Gyurtsa.                                                                                                           5th                Slaugh                     Mother       killed        on   &3
                                                                  53|    503    55      IG12   535            550
         (Buffalo.)                                                                                                         Junt                tered.                     account      of      age.
                                                                                                                                                                                             gives
          Bukrnss.                                                                7                                         7th                at Ur-        at    Ur-      much
                              1053   57     55;                                         3S52                 1313                                                                      milk, and
                                                                                               530|   175|                          Adyla.
         (Buffalo.)                                                                                                         Aug                 meny.         meny.         her     calves  are           O ¦»
                                                                                                                                                                                                             S- S3
                                                                                                                                                                            handsome.
                                                                                                                                                                          {Sheisgood,
          Oudass.                                                                                                     5th                                    at     Ur-
                              33                                         553    555     574                                                    Slaugh
                                                                                               5174   175|   1573|                                                           Do.              Do.
         (Buffalo.)                                                                                                  June                      tered.                                                     as
                                                                                                                                                              meny.
         Szirnsm.
         (Cross       of                                                                                             10th
                              3}     353   55     157            531'J   1503   1154     35                  1551                   Feker.    at Keszi.     at Kcszi      Moderately           good
        Hungarian                                                                                                    Dec.                                                 calves and          milk.
      and Styrian.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                     50th                                                            calves.
         Porossa.             33-    55;   131           553.] 551 i     575|   1534    89      SO           1G03                   Rech-                                 Sickly
                                                                                                                     Dec                           Do.            Do.     Much        milk,         but
                                                                                                                                     ter.
          Juna.                                                                                                                                                           bad.
      (Swiss
      born
       gary.)
               breed
                in Hun
                                     553   15^    155;   1512 5314       1554 5334      1G5    IO34    374   15514
                                                                                                                     5th
                                                                                                                     Jan.
                                                                                                                                    Ferdi
                                                                                                                                    nand.
                                                                                                                                              at Tar-
                                                                                                                                                   rany.
                                                                                                                                                             at Tar-
                                                                                                                                                              rany.
                                                                                                                                                                          Middling
                                                                                                                                                                          and milk.
                                                                                                                                                                                              calves
                                                                                                                                                                                                          I
                                                                                                                                                                                                          o m3
                                                                                                                                                                  Do.
          Diana.                                                                                                     5th            Ferdi                                 Good
                                     50    109    15*    155             53                                                                                                           milk,     fine
                                                                 554            534     155j   55J           1555|                                 Do.
         (Swiss.)                                                                                                    Jan            nand                                  calves.
So
       Orrg     Csnko.
       Hungarian.'
      Mixed  colour                                                                                                  31st                     for La
                                           S9|    5      155     350|    153^   33      L75     7            10532
      moderate                                                                                                       Dec.                          bour.
                      size;
g.i
a     fine horns.                                                                                                    % I
^   I

                 Management     of Sheep   and Cattle.            289
Regulations adopted in the Care of     the Flocks of Graf Hunyadi.
    1st.  A dry and airy shed, or cot,   of which the size is propor
tioned to the number of the sheep, is above all things necessary
for these animals.     In order to give them proper room, we ought
to reckon two feet and a half square for each ewe ; as the hay
rack, the partition required during lambing, and the lamb itself,
will occupy this space.
   2dly. The cot should he cleaned out at least every four weeks,
because the exhalation from the dung produces disease amongst
the sheep.
   3dly. All wetness and moisture is injurious, not only to the
health of the sheep, but also to the wool, on which account they
ought never to be driven out during rainy weather.
   4thly.    The dew and hoar-frost in the morning are injurious
to them, occasioning cough, colds, and diseases of the lungs, and
therefore they should not be taken to the pasture until the dew
is gone off.
   5thly. Low and marshy meadows, and such as are covered with
luxuriant grass, should still more carefully be guarded against;
as also stubble lands, in which the scattered. grain has sprung up
anew.
   tithly. In the summer months, when the heat is intense, the
sheep must, between the hours often and eleven, either be driven
back to the cot, or at least be conducted to some shaded place.
   7thly. It is indispensably necessary that the sheep should be
twice taken to water every day, both in summer and winter.
   Sthly. A supply of salt is also necessary, of which, in the sum
mer months, four pfund, and in the winter three pfund, should
be furnished weekly to every hundred head of sheep, so that they
may, at least twice every week, have salt, to lick.
   9thly. The rams should not be kept in the same house with
the ewes, nor the young with the old.
   lOthly. For fourteen days before the coupling season, the ram
should he daily fed with two halbes (equal to three pfund) of
oats, and this food should be continued, not only during the
coupling, but for fourteen days after ; and one ram will thus be
sufficient for a flock of eighty ewes, provided great care and at
tention be paid to him in every other respect during the whole
of the season.
    1 lthly. During the lambing period, a shepherd must be con
stantly day and night in the cot, not with the view of affording
assistance at the birth, but in order that he may place the lamh
as soon as it is cleaned, together with the mother, in a separate
pen, which has been before prepared.           The ewes which have
   Vol.52. No. 246. Oct. 1 81 8.              T               lambed

290    Hungarian Agriculture, and Improvements in                        the
lambed should, during a week, be driven neither to water nor
to pasture, but low troughs of water for this purpose are to be
introduced into each partition, in order that they may easily,
and at all times, quench their thirst.        It is also verv useful to
put   a small quantity  of  barleymeal   into  the water, for by this
means the quantity of the ewe's milk is much increased.          When
the lambs  are so strong   that  they can  eat, they are to be sepa
rated by degrees from their mothers, and fed with the best and
finest hay and a few oats, being suffered at first to go to them
only three times in each day, — early in the morning, at mid
day, and in the evening, — and so to continue till they can travel
to pasture, and fully satisfy themselves.     For a week they should
then be turned in twice a-day, and for another week once a-day
only, to the ewes, when they may be entirely weaned. At first
it is enough if a quarter of a pfund of hay be given every day to
each lamb, and one balbe of oats be divided amongst six — after
wards, and till they are driven out, half a pfund of hay, and a
halbe of oats amongst four, will be sufficient.
                         Regulations   for Winter   Feeding.                      •
   1st. The winter feeding should begin as soon as the cold and
the hoar-frost prevent the growth of the grass ; and         as     often
                                                                   if,       it
happens, this should be the case so early as the beginning of Oc
tober, it   isnot necessary that the sheep should, from this time
forward, be kept constantly in the house, and receive all their
food there, but they may in dry and clear weather (always ob
serving the fourth of the foregoing regulations) be driven out so
long as the grass       not rendered unwholesome
                           is                           the frost, and
                                                             by
the ground        not covered with snow.
                    is                         Duriug all this time,
however, they must not be sent out empty, but before going to
pasture must have a third part of their usual daily allowance.
   2dly.   A sheep which       healthy and full grown, will require
                                  is
daily  four  pfund  of  food, which   must consist of hay and straw.
Young sheep should have one pfund less.        The daily distribution
of food     as follows.
           is
   a. From the time when the frost begins, while yet the sheep
can go abroad, each receives, in the morning, one pfund and                       a
half of good straw.      They are then driven to water, and then to
the pasture, where they remain until the dew appears.
  I.   From the time when the hard frost comes on, and the
ground      covered with snow, till twenty days before dropping
           is
their lambs, they receive every morning at          o'clock,       pf. of 1|
clean straw     at    o'clock       of                 9 5
                                                   o'clock
                          8     pf.     hay  at             they    go to
                                   \ |
                 ;                              ;
water  ; at    o'clock again
                3               pf. of  good hay    at ;  o'clock
                                                               4     they
go again to water; and at          o'clock
                                         6      in
                                              the evening          pf. of\
                                                                         \
clean straw      again given.
                 is
                                                                c. From

                    Management         of   Sheep and Cattle.           29   1
    c. From     twenty days before    dropping their lambs, till the
spring pasturage commences,          they have every morning at 5
o'clock 1 pf. of clean straw ; at S o'clock 1 pf. of good hay ; at
9 o'clock they go to water ; at 3 o'clock in the afternoon, 1 pf.
of fine hay; at 4 o'clock they again drink ; and at 6 o'clock in
the evening they have again a pfund of clean straw.
   3dly. The wethers require the same quantity and order in their
food, with this difference alone, that in the commencement of
winter these receive | pf. of hay, and 3| pf. of straw, and when
the cold weather ceases, I pf. of hay and 3 pf. of straw.
   4thly.     The young sheep have, from the period of the com
plete setting in of winter, till the spring pasture, every morning
at 5 o'clock    I  pf. of clean straw ; at 8 o'clock f pfund of good
hay;   at  9  o'clock  they go to water; at 3 o'clock they have again
|  pf.  of  good hay ; at 4 o'clock they again drink ; and lastly,
at 6 in   the  evening have | pf. of straw.
   5thly. The lambs have generally, four weeks after their birth,
or rather as soon as they can eat, dry food ; at 8 o'clock £ pf.
of fine hay eaoh ; at 12, every 6 lambs have ^ of a metze of
 oats, and at 3 in the afternoon again £ pf. of hay; but when
they become stronger, they have at each feeding | pf. hay, and?
 amongst four, they have one halbe of oats.
    6thly. The lambs are early taught to lick the salt, which is
placed upon1 boards in quantities proportionate to their num
bers.
          Regulations    for       Feeding in the Summer Months.
   1st.    During this season the sheep are entirely fed in the pas
tures.     Yet we must remember, that when the sheep first come
into the spring pasture, they continue to receive one half of their
winter food, that        pf. of hay
                         is,   1        the morning before they are
                                              in
driven out, and     pf. after they come home, until the grass has
                     1
attained its full perfection.
   2dly. As soon as the grass       grown, so that the sheep can
                                         is
find complete nourishment, the winter feeding ceases               by
                                                              little
and little, and the following regulations are adopted.
   In the morning they remain in the cot till the dew         driedis
away; they then go to water, and from that are driven to the
pastures.    Between 10 and         o'clock they return to the cot,
                                        1
                                        1
and after   3o'clock are driven to water, and then to the pastures,
where they remain till the dew falls.
   3dly. Salt, fmely powdered, should be given them in small
troughs every third day before they are driven from the field.
                                        T   2                   XLV. New

                                         [   292    ]
XLV.    New Method for purifying Coal Gas, and at the same
  time increasing the Product from a given Quantity
                                                    of Coals.
  JBy      Mr. S. Parker, Liverpool.
                                    To   Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, — Having           noticed in your number for April last, a sin
gular  method    of  purifying coal gas, I take the liberty of com
municating    to  you some additional facts which cannot be wholly
uninteresting   to  those who are engaged in the new and wonder
ful art of procuring light.        Having made the crude coal gas to
pass through an arrangement of three iron pipes placed hori
zontallv in a furnace, and kept at a dull red heat, being con
nected together with a gun-barrel ; I found to my great astonish
ment that the quantity of gas that could be obtained by this
means from a given quantity of coal greatly exceeded the quan
tity obtainable in the usual manner ; and further, that the gas
was perfectly pure, whilst the quantity of tar produced during
the process was considerably less than what is obtained in the
ordinary gas-light process. The fluid, which was collected in a
vessel interposed between the extremity of the ignited iron pipes
through which the gas passed, and the gasometer which received
it, contained no vestige of ammonia; but on the contrary,             in         it
stantly reddened litmus paper.              possessed an -acid styptic
                                                   It
taste, and pungent sulphureous odour.
                   a                              was of black colour
                                                        It              a              ;
and when largely diluted, produced an insoluble precipitate with
muriate of barytes.          was sulphuric acid.
                               It                         therefore evi
                                                                  It   is
dent that crude coal gas, when made to traverse an ignited iron
tube, suffers     remarkable change.
                       a                   The sulphuretted hydrogen
gas, which always accompanies this gaseous fluid as obtained
from coal, no doubt becomes decomposed during the process,
and to the production of the sulphuric acid must be attributed
           by it
                                                                                       ;
—but        what means this decomposition           effected, would not
                                                             is
become me to state.             evident that not only the sulphuretted
                               It   is
hydrogen, but the ammonia also,                    is
                                             decomposed     because the ;
fluid which distils over       not alkaline, but decidedly acid. And
                                is
muriate of barytes and acetate of lead show that                contains    it
sulphuric acid strongly loaded with sulphureous acid gas.
    The increase of gas, there can be no doubt, must be attributed
to the decomposition which the tar suffers during this process                         ;
for   it   sufficiently evident that this substance may be wholly
           is
converted into oxycarburetted hydrogen gas.
   The gas thus produced          perfectly free from sulphuretted
                                     is                                               hy
drogen,  as  well  as from   carbonic  acid for     neither disturbs the
                                                    ;    it
transparency    of     solution
                           a     of super-acetate of lead, nor barytic
water,  when   made   to pass through it. From these considerations
                                                                   there

  On the Improvement in forming Electrical Planispheres*                      293
there  is reason to believe that the purification of coal gas, the
application of which is daily increasing as a substitute for pro
curing light, might be effected in a more (economical manner,
by causing the gas to traverse ignited iron vessels, than by the
application of quick-lime.   The subject is worthy of a strict ex
amination, both in a philosophical point of view, as well as with
regard to practical utility.  I have the honour to be, sir,
                                   Your obedient      servant,
Liverpool, Sept. 3, l«18.                                        S. PaRKER,
   XLVI.     Improvement in the Method offorming Electrical
              Planispheres. By Mr. Rowland Hill.
                               To    Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, — Nearly                  ago I had occasion to represent
                         four years
some    of the constellations
                            and other figures by electricity. Hi
therto this had always been done upon glass; but 1 wished to con
struct the constellations on a scale which required larger plates
of glass than I could conveniently procure. Paper being a non
conductor of electricity, I was induced to make trial of      and       it,
 found that     answered my purpose exceedingly well.
               it                                            At that
timeI   constructed four constellations, viz. the Great Bear, the
 Great Dog, the Ship, and the Scorpion.           made use of that
                                                           I
kind of paper which      called Bristol board; the tin-foil may be
                          is
 stuck upon    it  the same manner as
                    in                        fastened to glass.
                                                 it   is                      I
also found  gold size    liquid used
                          (a                by
                                         the gilders) to be very well
adapted to that purpose      and the figures may be secured more
                               ;
completely      covering the whole with
               by                           coat of varnish.
                                                  a             Since
that time have represented upon paper
           I                                    considerable portion
                                                       a
of the southern sky.        took several sheets of drawing-paper,
                               1
pasted the edges together, and stretched the whole upon        circua
lar wooden frame four feet in diameter. Upon this apparatus are
represented all the stars of the four first magnitudes within forty
degreesof the   south pole.
  In order to  give to the stars of the different magnitudes their
proper degrees of relative brightness,    took the following me
                                              I
thod.
    For the stars of the first magnitude, cut the ends of the tin
                                                 I
foil round, and placed them about one- twelfth of an inch asunder.
For those of the second magnitude, the bits of tin-foil were
pointed, and the spaces between them made as small as possible.
To produce spark of no greater brightness than the stars of
               a
the third magnitude,      made the spaces in the tin-foil similar to
                          I
the last, and pasted over each      small bit of thin paper, through
                                       a
                                 T3                            which

294                 On    the received  Theory    of Heat.
which the electric sparks are dimly        seen.    The stars of the fourth
magnitude are made by spaces formed in the same manner, but
covered with a thicker piece of paper.             Thus I was enabled to
give   to each   star  its  proper degree    of brightness ; and by these
means I conceive        a  more   exact   representation of the celestial
bodies can be given, than by any other method as yet known.
    In this scheme are represented upwards of sixty stars, besides
the two great nebulce which appear in the southern part of the
heavens.      To imitate the latter, I cut two holes in the paper,
in the form of the nelulce. — Here I passed the train of tin-foil
through the paper, and at the back of the scheme carried it
round the edges of these holes, leaving a few intervals for sparks.
At the back of each hole I fixed a piece of Bristol board consi
derably larger than the aperture, and bent so that the part op
posite the hole should be about half an inch behind the level of
the scheme.        The paper thus fixed served as a screen to receive
the light of the sparks given at the back round the holes ; and
being by that means illuminated, while the general face of the
scheme was in darkness, filled up the aperture as it were with a
nebulous whiteness, giving as I apprehend a tolerably just image-
of the original.
    In damp weather these figures, like almost all electrical appa
 ratus, require to be dried before a fire previously to their being
 used.
    The advantages which are derived from the use of paper in
stead of glass must be obvious.           It is much less expensive. By
joining together a number of sheets it can be made of any size ;
 and as it will not break, it is much more portable ; which last
 circumstance must recommend it strongly to such as have fre
 quent occasion to remove their apparatus from one place to an
 other.    I am, sir,
                              Your obedient servant,
Hill-top School, Birmingham,                            ROWLAND HlLL.
         Oct. 12, 1818.
    JiLVII.    On the received Theory        of Heat.    By A Corre
                                  spondent.
                               To  Mr.   Tilloch.
  Sir, — Permit          me to lay before your readers       my reasons for
  objecting to the received theory of heat.          I am strongly inclined
  to believe there is no such thing — any more than that there is an
  elementary principle of sound.
     Chemists and philosophers agree that the particles of heat
  are infinitely smaller than any other particles — that insinuating
                                                                 themselves

                   Theory of the  Magnetical Variation.             295
themselves between those of any other body, is the cause of all
expansion — that they decompose some bodies, but never mix
with any ; and are repulsed by all, when containing a quantity
unnatural to them.
    Now, sir, my conception is (probably an erroneous one) that heat
is only a sensation arising from the sudden decomposition of a body,
and that when it isdecomposed itcannot communicate the feeling.
 If a coal is burning or decomposing, it can give the disease to an
adjoining coal ; and this disease will pass like lightning between
the particles of the bottom of an iron steam boiler, and commu
nicate the complaint to the water : the first disorganization of
which is steam. Pursue the disorganization in the steam still
further, until you get a pressure of 50 or 60 lbs. to the inch, and
 the steam will then be only milk-warm, from the decomposition
being so nearly complete.        If heat'were an elementary principle,
 and its particles went through the iron and water without mix
 ing, they would equally pass on through the top and sides of the
boiler, more particularly upon the repulsive principle. The ex
pansion of metals may arise from a partial decomposition, which
if discontinued, their particles will fall again into their former or
 ganization. I believe any sudden disorganization produces light —
 probably the decomposing and regenerating principle, acting ra
 pidly upon the animal and vegetable organization on the sun's
surface, may cause its light, and disorganizes on the earth less
  (and therefore less sensation of heat) in winter than in summer,
 because the sun's light then falls much more obliquely upon the
 earth, and meets with more atmospheric obstruction.          The same
 principle acting upon the growing animal and vegetable system
 here, is very likely to stimulate by vacuum, and the stomach and
 capillary system to supply reorganization, and all generative prin
 ciple.
      I wish  to throw out these ideas (very hastily put together) to
 your    better  informed readers, if you think them worthy a corner
 of your valuable miscellany.              Your obedient servant,
     Clanghton House, Lancaster,                                   S.
         17th October, 1818.
      XLV1II.      Theory  of the Magnetical Variation.      By Mr.
                             Thomas Yeatks.
   JL he discovery of the properties of the loadstone having been
  the labour of ages to explore, and an object with the searchers,
  of nature from the earliest times; it would be a curious and in
  teresting inquiry to ascertain the several stages of the knowledge
  of this wonderful stone.       To enter upon its history is a difficult
  task, from the want of many notices of which history itself is si
  lent, and without which the progression of the discovery must
                                   T  4                      necessarily

29G             Theory         of   the   Magneticul Variation.
necessarily be interrupted and imperfect.          Its general history,
however, enables us to conclude that its attractive power for iron
was its first known property ; that in subsequent times its po
larity was discovered, when it was found to possess a line of at
traction situate in its own proper axis, and conforming its ener
gies agreeably to that direction.       In aftertimes its absolute po
larity was discovered in the verticity of the needle, when it was
found to conform with the poles of the world, a discovery of all
others the most important to navigation and commerce : this was
the origin of the mariner's compass. Lastly, the vertical or dip
ping needle was discovered, whose use and theory remain for
the cultivation of the moderns. The variation of the horizontal
 needle, and the variation of that variation, have been discoveries
 of later times.
     If,as some philosophers have asserted, the earth was originally
a right sphere, having its polar and equatorial diameters equal,
 and its whole surface a perfect globe            may be argued with
                                                    ;   it
 equal probability, that   at that period  the magnetic power strictly
 conformed itself with the true poles of the world universally, and
 of consequeuce there could be no variation of the magnetic needle.
 But since extensive surveys have been made            eminent mathe
                                                                  by
 maticians, and     ithas been determined that the present figure of
 the earth     is
               a  spheroid, having its polar axis less than its equa
 torial; and that    ithas been gradually increasing from the power
 of gravity acting upon its polar surfaces              equally possible
                                                        ;    it   is
 that the variation of the magnetic poles hath originated from a
 similar cause; and that so long as the earth shall obtain the form
 of spheroid, and increase in its obliquity, so long will the va
     a
 riation of the magnetic poles continue to increase in different
 parts of the earth, as now we find it. In the former case, which
is   an hypothesis not altogether improbable, the lines of the mag
 netic sphere coincided with those of the true sphere           and by ;
 consequence all the other imaginary lines constituting either
 sphere were common, such as the magnetic meridians, equator,
 and parallels: but      the latter case an absolute difference
                          in                                       found   is
 in the existing variation, known to all persons experienced in
 navigation.
     A  projection of the lines of the magnetic sphere on       globe  a         is
 not altogether impracticable, as may appear from what has                      al
 ready been effected in some maps and charts of the Magnetical
 Variations alretsdt published. The lines of quantity being trans
 ferred from the chart to the globe, the magnetic meridians,
 equator, and parallels, may also be laid down with equal pre
  cision   ;and by  the help of these the whole complement may be
 supplied,   and  thereby the theory of the magnetic sphere will be
 most interestingly displayed and understood.
                                                                     shall I

                   Theory of the Magnetical Variation.               297
     I  shall for the sake of illustration give a figure of the Magnetic
                                                                  \\
equator, and meridians.
                             a/            \
     Let A B represent the           jr                         1
two hemispheres of                          \       \  f       J
                  Bi                                            —
globe: Aa              a mag-
lietic meridian: C D a cr\-jjL__
                                  /           j      Yjt— -   i
                                                                  5^jD
                                    \            yJ\\                /J
magnetic parallel, which          \          j                \
being the greatest of all                   /                   \
the parallels in the mag-             ^-~~JL_^^
                                          a
netic sphere, is here, for
 distinction sake, called the magnetic equator. It is evident from
inspection, that the magnetic lines are all curvilinear, and differ
 from the circles on a globe.          That the various inclination of a
 magnetic meridian with the true meridian, produces the varia
 tion in quantity more or less, according to the parts of the earth
 so affected : and so likewise in any line drawn at right angles
 with a magnetic meridian ; as for instance, the magnetic equator,
 which in its traverse round the globe, makes different quantities
 of variation according to its different inclination with the terres
 trial equator. This variation increases towards the poles, as repre
 sented in the figure : and the same magnetic meridian which in
 the northern hemisphere produces a west variation, may produce
 an east variation in the southern hemisphere, as in the meridian
  marked A a ; and that meridian which in the southern hemi
  sphere may produce an east variation, may produce a west va
  riation in the northern hemisphere : — in like manner, and by the
 same rule, the magnetic equator produces the various quantities
  of east and west variation.
       To delineate, either on a chart or on a globe, a series of lines
  representing the magnetic meridians and parallels, is equivalent
  to projecting the north and south and east and west magnetic
  rhumbs.        It is owing to the variation of the magnetic rhumb
  from the true rhumb of the course, that the mariner is frequently
  necessitated -to make observation of the variation at sea in order
  to correct his course: this is most convincingly taught in the de
  lineation of any magnetic meridian.
       According to the present state of the variation between the
  tropics, the magnetic equator, traversing the whole compass of the
  globe, completes its range within 23 degrees of latitude or nearly
   12 degrees north, and 1 2 ditto south of the equator. Its maximum
  quantity of variation any where known is about 23 degrees on
  the coast of Africa, wear the line ; and hence the variation in
  creases gradually until it is lost in the lines of no variation east
  and west.        The west variation comprehends about 110 degrees
  of longitude, reckoned from the western coast of South America
                                                                    about

298            Theory  of tlie Magnetical Variation.
about 10 degrees south, to the Peninsula of India south of Goa,
where an east variation begins, and proceeding eastward through
the Manillas, extends from thence over the whole compass of the
Pacific Ocean, enters the west coast of South America, and, com
pleting its course through that continent, terminates at the line
of no variation on the west coast : in this manner does the mag
netic equator traverse the terraqueous globe : and if it were pos
sible for a ship to sail round the globe from any point on this
magnetic line, it would perform just such a track, or very nearly
so, provided it kept on the magnetic-east or west rhumb.
    The sum of all the degrees of variation on the magnetic equa
tor, including the increasing and decreasing quantities of east
and west, is computed at 90 degrees ; whereas about the latitude
of 60 degrees north the sum is double that quantity, viz. about
180 degrees.
    The highest quantities are found in the west variation at this
time prevailing in the North and South Atlantic Seas, and south
of the Cape of Good Hope.        The highest' quantity of east va
riation at present known is to the south of Cape Horn, where it
amounts to about 25 degrees. In general, where the variation is
found high in quantity, there the increase or decrease is found the
most rapid ; but where the quantity is small the change is alto
gether as slow, and several degrees of longitude are contained in
one degree of variation, as appears from the Charts of the Pa
cific and Indian Seas*.
    Having thus far attempted a general description of the cause
and theory of the magnetic system, and illustrated my argument
by a few plain and obvious principles, I proceed to remark an
experiment I some time ago made as follows : — On a globe of a
convenient diameter I laid down that imaginary line here called
the magnetic equator, and making this the base described se
veral parallels at equal distances towards the arctic circle, when
that parallel which might be called the magnetic arctic parallel
produced the figure of a shell not unlike that of the common oy
ster.   I mention the experiment with submission to the geolo
gist; who, by further researches into the cause of magnetism, may
hereafter afford an almost mechanical solution of that so long
attributed to an occult principle.    It may be also observed, that
as the equatorial line laid down on the globe in the experiment
above, was the result of actual experiment in observations of the
compass made by recent navigators in most of those seas, so a
system of lines produced on this principle alone, by far excels
any of those mechanical cases so learnedly described by Dr. Lo-
rimer, and is found to approximate the nearest of all other known
methods to the true system actually existing.
               * See
                     my Variation Chart lately published.

         On Seasons   favouralle   to the Growth of Fungi.         299
  If exact  observations of the variation were taken at all the prin
cipal coasts,  headlands, bays, harbours, and ports in Great Bri
tain and Ireland, and in all other countries where our navigation
extends, it would be a very great benefit to the shipping interest
both for lives and property, since it happens that frequently the
greatest danger is found in making such coasts, harbours, ports,
&c. for want of soundings, and the variation : — the former indeed
has been well attended to, but the latter still remains a deside
ratum. But that this is a subject of importance in a commercial
country, that an instrument like the mariner's compass should
be perfectly understood in all its usefulness, it is sufficient to in
stance, that without this instrument ships would cease to navi
gate the otherwise pathless seas,- and commerce sink her head
into an insignificant nothingness ; nations in distant parts of the
globe would cease to benefit each other by mutual advantages,
and all our knowledge of distant climes and nations would
avail us little.  It is by this instrument, when neither sun nor
moon nor stars appear, that the skilful mariner pursues his
course in the most turbulent and boisterous seas ; and with a
dependence on this his only guide and directrix, he is guided as
by an angelic hand towards the haven where he would be. How
desirable then must the theory of such an excellent instrument
be, and how worthy the pursuit of the mariner, the geographer,
the philosopher, and the mathematician !
XLIX.      On the Seasons which are most favourable to the
   Growth of Fungi, &fc. tvith an Account of some of remarka
   ble Growth this present Year.        By A Correspondent.
                          To  Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, — It    has generally been believed that wet seasons were fa
vourable to the growth of mushrooms and of fungi; in general,,
the result of the present year, however, contradicts this notion...
For after one of the hottest and driest summers which has hap -
pened within the memory of the oldest man in this village, th e
whole of this tribe of plants have been more abundant than for
many years past ; and some of them have exhibited an extraor
dinary luxuriance of growth.
   The common mushroom, Agaricus campestris, has been evt;ry
where particularly abundant, and of large size : they began, to
appear in this neighbourhood just after the few days of rain e; lrly
in September, and are still very numerous in all the open m ,ca-
dows and low lands hereabouts.
   That beautiful fungus, the Agaricus integer, is also very al >un-
dant : we have all the three varieties, — the crimson, the fr twn-
                                                             coloi ned,

 300                     Notices respectmg New Books.
 coloured, and the lead-coloured, of large size, in the moist
 grounds under the oak and beech woods.            I have also noticed a
 plentiful crop of the following species :
    Agaricus floccosus, the rough, tawny-yellow agarick, at the
 root of apple-trees in the orchard.
    Agaricus denticulatus, in the long grass.
    Agaricus glulinosus, in the same place, but more sparingly.
    Agaricus stercorarius, numerous and remarkably beautiful
 specimens in the dung of horses in the fields.
    Agaricus fascicularis. This species came up early even during
 the dry weather, and is still abundant, but not particularly large.
    The Boletus lovinus as well as another Boletus (which, whe
 ther it be a variety of Lovinus or not I am uncertain) have grown
 to an enormous bigness. Some have weighed above four pounds,
 and the diameter of their pilei was above fourteen inches.          Se
 veral- other Boleti are also abundant and of large growth.          But
 unfortunately, owing to the imperfect nomenclature and arrange
 ment of fungi yet extant, many species of Boletus as well as of
 Agaricus which grow here, cannot be identified. Mr. Sowerby's
 work constitutes a most interesting and useful sylva fungorum,
 wherein the botanist may study and arrange most of the British
 species, but they have never yet been accurately described.
    The most beautiful species we have here is the Asaricus pli-
 catilis. The genus Peziza has been rather scarce this year. — I
 am induced to think that the most fruitful sort of season in fungi
 is one where a hot and dry summer is succeeded by a moderately
 wet autumn ; as by looking back in my Journals I find this fre
 quently to have been the case, while the wholly wet summers and
 autumns have been less productive.
    I shall prepare for some future number a table of observations
 for about nineteen years past, compared with weather and other
 collateral phaenomena.                           Yours, &c.
    Hartfield, 19cii Ooctober, 1318.                            T. F.
                     L.   Notices respecting New Books.
"Jl)r. Shurzheim          has just published a new work on the Physi
ology of      the  Brain, entitled Observations sur la Pfiraenologie:
in which      he has, in some measure, improved on the arrangement
of the organs.         He admits now the existence of 35 separate or-
gai  is in  the   brain ; among them is the convolution called by Dr.
Forister, Organ        of  superstitiousness or mystery.   The work is
published at Strasburgh, Paris, and London.
    Dr. Gall has likewise published another splendid folio fasci-
culu s of plates of the brain, accompanied by descriptions and
an e lucidation of his doctrine.
                                                               LI. Pro

                               [  301    ]
                LI. Proceedings  of Learned Societies.
              ROYAL GEOLOGICAL    SOCIETY    OF CORNWALL.
The       fifth anniversary of this institution was held iu,the So
ciety's New Museum in Penzance, on the 6th of October —
Davies Gilbert, Esq. M.P. F.R.S. President, in the chair.         The
following Annual Report of the Council was presented, and read:
     " On reviewing the history of the Society since the last anni
versary, the Council is happy to be able to announce the in
creased and increasing prosperity of the Institution.
     " The extensive and elegant Museum, which is now com
pleted, and which is calculated to meet the necessities of an esta
blishment of this kind in its state of perfection, cannot fail to
have a happy influence on the fortunes of the Society.          At the
same time that it affords every convenience for the prosecution of
the science of mineralogy and geology, it offers a, secure, ample,
and elegant depository for all kinds of valuable specimens, which
the liberality and public spirit of its members may wish to see
concentrated and preserved, for the good of science in general,
and for the inteiests of this county in particular.
     " Much greater additions, as well of simple minerals as of
geological specimens, have been made to the cabinet, than du
ring any former year ; and it is particularly gratifying, as a proof
of the great and increasing interest of the Institution with the
public, that this augmentation arises entirely from private dona
tions; — the liberality of some of its members compensating the
deficiencies which otherwise must have been produced by the pre
sent incompetency of the Society's funds.         The principal con
tributors are J.    H.Vivian, Esq., W.  Maclure,   Esq., A. Majendie,
Esq., J. Paynter, Esq., Dr. Forbes, and       the Rev. J. Rogers.
    " In communicating this very gratifying information, the Council   •
cannot avoid expressing their regret that so few new specimens
have been obtained from the County mines ; and that, conse
quently, the department of the cabinet set apart for the recep
tion of indigenous ores, which ought to be particularly rich and
splendid, continues to be defective, and is eclipsed by many other
collections, as well public as private; — a circumstance uniformly
exciting the surprise of strangers.
     " Considerable accession of information respecting the geolo
gical structure of the county has been obtained, which, although
 iiot very extensive, is valuable from its accuracy, and as it fur
nishes plans which may be successfully extended to other districts.
 The chief contributors in this way are Mr. Joseph Carne, the Rev.
J. Rogers, and Dr. Forbes.
     " The Council earnestly request the attention of members to
                                                                this —

302                 Royal Geological Society       of Cornwall.
this — the grand object of the institution.           It is impossible for a
 few members       to  undertake    the investigation of the whole county.
 It is therefore hoped, that, with the view of enabling the Societv
 to complete its long-promised but still very defective Geological
 Map, members will, in their respective districts, endeavour to
 ascertain the nature and relations of the rocks, and transmit their
 observations made, and specimens collected, from time to time,
 to the Secretary, who will be very ready to assist their inquiries
 by any advice or information in his power.               Any person, even
 although unacquainted with the principles of geological science,
 can, it is obvious, collect specimens of the various rocks in his
 vicinity: and members are requested to bear this in mind, with
 the assurance that collections of this kind, with the various lo
 calities of the specimens affixed, will very materially promote the
 important object in view.           One grand desideratum, and which
 might   be  very easily supplied by members resident in the different
 parts  of the   county, —       is,
                                 to ascertain the exact limits       the dif
                                                                          of
                                            —
ferent granite and killas districts. The farmers and miners, in
  any part of Cornwall, could give this information to any gentle
 man that would take the trouble to record                   it,
                                                             or to trace the
  boundary    lines   on any  of  the  county maps.
    "  Owing to the great expenses necessarily incurred                by
                                                                    the esta
  blishment of         new Museum, &c. the funds of the Society can
                         a
  not be said to be in the most nourishing state —            :    Ithowever
                                                                          is
  true, that,, chiefly through the liberal donations of some distin
  guished members, they are so far in             state of progressive im
                                                   a
  provement     as  to  permit  the   Council  to  promise that, before the
  next annual meeting, all incumbrances will be cleared, and                   a
  balance left for promoting the various objects of the Institution.
                                        "   By order,
"   Oct.    6,   1818.
                                                  " John   Forbes, Secretary."
    The following papers were then presented and                   read   :
    1  The first paper was       the Secretary, Dr. Forbes, and was
                                       by
a sort of " Eloge on Natural History."
    .
                                                In descanting on the
various advantages arising    from  this study, the author took notice
of its effects in augmenting our relish for the works of nature,
by superadding the higher intellectual pleasures to the delights
afforded          by
              the mere contemplation of beautiful or sublime ob
jects;  its power in preventing the evils flowing from an excessive
 and vague admiration of the works of nature; its ready and un-
 cumbersome association with other pursuits; its tendency to
 promote health and cheerfulness its power in averting and re
                                              ;
 lieving unhappiness    its beneficial influence in leading to reli
                             ;
 gion   its
        ;   conferring   relish for simple pleasures
                             a                            its influence
                                                                   ;
 in improving the taste and judgement, and in quickening our
                                                                  habits

                      Royal Geological Society of Cornwall,            303
 habits of observation.     In considering the very great advantages
 derived by the traveller horn this study, he paid a high yet well-
 merited compliment to Sir Humphry Davy, in nearly the follow
 ing terms : — ' Nor is it only as enabling him more fully to en
joy the natural productions of the countries he visits, that a know
 ledge of natural history is useful to the traveller: it is a sure
 introduction and passport to the most valuable acquaintance.
 Science, like a nobler freemasonry, unites in bonds of friendly
 fellowship all its cultivators, without regard to kindred, tongue,
 or nation ; and to be a distinguished chemist, mathematician, or
 naturalist, is to have an irresistible claim on the attention and
 regard of all the noblest minds of all nations.    With this intro
 duction and passport, our truly illustrious townsman, Sir Hum
 phry Davy, is at this very moment riding in triumph through
 all the most polished nations of Europe.       With a consequence
 which rank or riches alone never could confer, he passes from
 city to city, conscious that his name alone will procure him that
 attention which the common traveller must want, or owe to other
 means.     To the great and learned of every land he can freely
 express all his wishes, assured of their ready gratification : in
 every University and Society, nay in every palace, He
            "    Claims kindred there, and has his claims allow'd."
    2. An extremely interesting paper by Mr. Jos. Came, " Ore
the relative Age of the Veins of Cornwall ;" in which the inge
nious and industrious author attempts by fair deductions from an
immense collection of facts to establish six or seven classes of
veins, differing in the order and period of their formation.    This
paper does not-    admit  of  abridgement.     It is of considerable
length, and was characterized by the Secretary, who read          as   it,
the most valuable communication that had yet been presented to
the Society.
    3. Two very valuable papers from the pen of the learned Mr.
John Hawkins: one "On the Nomenclature of theCornish Rocks,"
as fixed     Werner, from specimens presented to that great geo
            by
logist by  Mr. Hawkins: another " On Floors of Tinstone." On this
occasion the Society elected Mr. Hawkins an honorary member.
    4.A   paper
                " On the Hornblend Formation of the parish of St.
Cleer, and on the Geology of other parts of Cornwall,"           the  by
Rev. Mr. John Rogers.       In this communication the author de
tailed the various relations and localities of this formation, and
illustrated the whole       map of the district, and numerous spe
                             by
                             a
cimens of the rocks.      Several interesting specimens were also
presented       Mr. Rogers, from the slate quarries of Tintagel,
                 by                                                        il
lustrating  the  nature of those appearances that have hitherto
been generally considered as exhibiting the impression of shells,

 304            Royal Geological Society  of Cornwall.
 and, consequently, as demonstrating the secondary nature of our
 Cornish slate. Mr. Rogers is of opinion — and it would seem
justly — that these supposed organic impressions are mere va
rieties of structure of the slaty matter itself.
    5. A paper by Miss Hill, of Barnstaple, " On the Discovery
of Hydrargyllite." From this communication it appears that the
 brother of Miss Hill, late surgeon in Barnstaple, and not Dr.
Wavell, as is commonly believed, was the original discoverer of
this mineral.
     6. A paper by Dr. Forbes, " On the Geology of that part of
Cornwall lying to the westward of Hayle and Cuddan Point
illustrated by numerous specimens, and by an elegant geological
map, and many drawings by Mr. Moyle, assistant secretary. On
the present occasion Dr. F. had only time to read that portion of
his paper which treated of the granite of the Land's-End district,
and of the slate formation, observable on the shores of the pa
rishes of Burian Sennen, St. Just, Zenuor, Towednack, St. Ives,
and Lelant. In this paper the author denied the stratification of
the Cornish granite ; stated the slate formation of the district,
which he described to consist of the following five rocks, horn-
blend rock, greenstone, felspar rock, slaty felspar, and clay slate;
and expressed his belief of the contemporaneous origin of these
rocks, and the fundamental granite. As an irresistible argument
in favour of this opinion, and as of itself subversive of the Hut-
tonian theory, he adduced the frequent instances observable on
the Cornish shores, of granite veins originating in the same rock,
intersecting each other, and exhibiting at the point of intersec
tion the appearance called a shift or heave.
    7. Two very interesting papers
                                     " On the Tin Trade of the An
cients ;" — one by the Rev. Mr. Greatheed, the other by the trea
surer, H. Boase, Esq. The latter gentleman brought forward many
ingenious arguments in support of a somewhat heterodox opinion
which he holds, respecting the knowledge of Britain possessed by
the Ancients.      He denies that Cornwall was ever visited by the
Phoenicians, and maintains, that if any islands denominated Cas-
siterides really did exist, they certainly formed no part of the
present British dominions.
    Besides the papers above mentioned, there were some before
the Society that were not read. Notices were also delivered in by
Mr. Joseph Came, of the quantity of tin and copper raised in
Cornwall, Ireland, and Wales, during the year ending June 30th,
 1818 ; and several catalogues of geological and other specimens
were presented to the Society by different gentlemen.
    In the course of the meeting Lord De Dunstanville took occasion
to notice the presentation of a piece of plate, value 150 guineas,
to Dr. Paris; to whom, also, thanks were voted for superintend
                                                                 ing

                            Northern Expedition.                              305
 ing the publication of the first volume of the Society's Transac
 tions,                                                                   i*
    A Resolution was proposed by Sir Rose Price, respecting the
 accidents that still too frequently occur in our mines, from the
 premature explosion of gunpowder. The Hon. Baronet, in com
 menting on these accidents, animadverted severely on the con
 duct of those mine agents and proprietors, whose apathy or pre
judice continues to permit the occurrence of such fatal accidents,
 when simple and efficacious means of prevention exist in the safe
ty inslrumenls invented bv Captain Chenhalls.
    All the Officers of the Society were re-elected, and the follow
ing gentlemen chosen Vice Presidents and Members of the Coun
cil for the present year : viz.
    Vice Presidents — Sir C. Hawkins, Bart.; W. Rashleigh, Esq. ;
F. H. Rodd, Esq. ; Rev. John Rogers.
    Members of the Council — Jos. Came, L. C. Daubuz, R. W.
Fox jun. ; VV. R. Hill, H. Grylls, S. Davey, S. John, H. P. Tre-
menheere, Esquires ; Rev. W. Hockin ; and Capt. E. Scobell, R. N.
    From the Report of the Curator, Mr. Edward Giddy, of whose
correct, lucid, and elegant arrangement of the mineralogical ca
binet much approbation was expressed by the Meeting, it appears
that upwards of 1600 new specimens have been added to the ca
binet since last anniversary; an augmentation which, we under
stand, arises entirely from private donations.
           LII.   Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                           NORTHERN EXPEDITION.
The following       curious and interesting letter to the Honourable
Captain Napier, R.N. from on board the Isabella, one of the
ships at present employed in the Northern Expedition, is under
stood to be from the pen of Captain Sir John Ross.
                 " 1J is Majesty's Sliip Isabella, off Sus;ar Loaf Bay, Davis's
                        Straits, Julj 12, 1818. lat. 74. 2. N. lorn;. 58. VV.
    " My dear Sir, — I take the opportunity of a Leith ship to
let you know what we are about in this icy region ; a few ex
tracts from the log will give some idea of our proceeding^.                   On
the 3d May left Shetland, and had a tolerable fair passage across
the Atlantic ; on the •22d were in longitude off Cape Farewell ;
2 deg. south of it found our variation increasing as we went west,
temperature     of air and water nearly the same as at Shetland,
thermometer at 42 or 43 deg.               On the 26th saw the first ice
berg, lat. 58. 38. long. 50. 54.: we now had snow and sleet,
thermometer at freezing, a good deal of loose ice all round. June
2, in lat. 65. long. 56. were close in with the main west ice, which
we supposed extended the whole way to the American coast ; on
    Vol.52. No.246. Oct. \8\8.                          U                     the

306                   Northern Expedition.
the 4th made the Greenland coast, in lat. 65. 42. but did not
stand close in ; the land here appeared something like the north
coast of Spain, and about the same height, the mountains very
precipitous, and terminating in ragged peaks. We continued
our course to the northward, as the winds and ice permitted,
keeping on the edge of the main west ice, which we found trend
ing to N. E. On the 8th, in lat. 68. 20. long. 55. 50. a few
leagues off the Greenland coast, we were so hemmed in with ice
on all sides that we could not run through ; a fine S. W. gale
was blowing, and we were obliged to tack about where we could
find room.     On the 9th we made fast to an ice-berg aground in
38 fathoms, about a mile off shore. The mode of anchoring to
ice is very easy : the boat goes a-head with the anchors, and
fixes them before the ship approaches ; when ready, the ship
stands in and makes fast, bow to the ice : a low berg that the
bowsprit lies over is preferred, and aground if it can be had.
On the 10th were obliged to get under way, a small change of
 wind setting a large body of ice upon us ; we continued plying
where we could find open water, and fell in with a whaler, the
first we had seen, who informed us that none of the whale ships
had been able to get past 70£ deg. ; that the ice to the north
ward was still fast. On the 14th called at the Whale Islands,
where there is a Danish factory. The Danish Resident came on
board; from him we could get little information, except that the
 preceding winter had been very severe. On the 16th we reached
 70. 39. N. no clear water to be seen northward: made fast to an
ice-berg about a mile off the N. W. end of Waygat or Hare Island.
We found here most of the whale fishers waiting for an opening
 to go north, the fishery to the southward having failed this sea
son.     Waygat is eight or nine miles long, 1200 or 1500 feet
high, uninhabited, some of the rocks basaltic. Coal is found near
the surface on the N. E. part of this island. Some grouse were
shot, the cock perfectly white, the hen not unlike that of Scot
land.     I saw one hare pure white. On the 20th the ice opened
a little to the northward, when we began to warp and tow the
ship through the slack, the winds light and variable, and fre
quent calms.       On the 26th were only 20 miles from Waygat,
where we got into a piece of clear water that carried us to the
land ice on the north side of Jacob's Bight, lat. 70. 2 j. We found
ourselves in 54. 17. W. per lunars, which agreed well with chro
nometers.      We swung the ship, and took azimuths on board at
every   four  points.   Corresponding azimuths were taken at the
same time on the ice.       The observations were not taken in so
 correct a manner as might be done to form a just estimate of
the deviation of the compass by ship's attraction. The idea here
at present  is,  that the compasses are not attracted in
                                                       a   line with
                                                                 the

                      Northern Expedition.                      307
the ship, but obliquely.     From my own observation, I find that
 the bearings of distant objects with the ship's head north and
south correspond, which would not be the case if the attraction
 of the ship was not fore and aft, but athwart. The azimuths
 taken with the ship's head north or south generally agree. It is
 supposed likewise that the error arising from the ship's attrac
 tion has increased with the variation and dip. As there were no
 observations made before leaving England on the ship's attrac
 tion, we must have patience until the variation is again decreased.
   "   I think that the error has been constant the whole voyage.
 The ship's head at west gives, according to my own observation,
 an increase of variation 16 deg. ; at east a decrease of 16 deg.
 On the 27th we cast off from the ice with the prospect of an
 opening, and cruized about in a narrow pool till the 2d July,
 when a fine fresh breeze opened a passage for us.        On the 3d
 we were in 71. 30.— on the 4th 72. 30. On the 7th, in lat. 74.
 were again obstructed by ice, the bergs and flaws much heavier
 by far than those we have hitherto seen.
   "   We are now in the same place that Baffin, two hundred
 years ago, anchored : we find the Three Islands just as he de
 scribes them ; he makes them in 74. 4. We make them 74.         If.
 Baffin gives an honest account of them.           We stretched to
 the westward on the 9th and 10th, but found the sea all fast.
 We are now in daily expectation of the wind shifting to the
 N.E. and blowing strong, which is the only thing that will
 do us good.     It is strange that, at the same time of the year,
 almost to a day, Baffin should have been stopped by ice in the
same place ; he likewise stood west without finding clear sea —
 His account takes him to 78. N. but he does not say he was at
the top of the Bay, or saw land there.     Our voyage hitherto has
 been very pleasant — Since the middle of June we have had very
fine weather, the thermometer in sun 76. — sometimes in the
shade it is at a mean about 33. or 34. sometimes below the
freezing point. For five or six weeks we have only had occasion
to take in the first reef once. The water is as smooth as a mill-
pond all weathers. We have scarcely seen rain — our changes of
weather are from cloudy to thick fogs, and sometimes light falls
of snow. Sometimes the sun shines unclouded the whole twenty-
four hours. We have seen two whales only, and have heard but
of one being killed since we have been here — they are all north
of us. Bears are as scarce — one has been seen. A great number
of the gull tribe have been shot, and we sometimes procure a mess
of eider ducks ; seals are more abundant, but we don't trouble
them.      The coast of Greenland, where we saw    it, to the south
ward of 70|,is higher than to the northward of that latitude. Here
the coast consists of many high bold bluflf-like head lands, which,
                               U   2                           closer

   308                      Northern Expedition.
    closer to, are found to be islands.    The main land is one conti
   nued ridge of smooth snow, which                                I sup
                                          appears like a cloud.
    pose the ground has not been uncovered since the Flood.          The
   islands in general are clear of snow. — There are no inhabitants
   to the north of 72. 30. on this coast. We had some of the
                                                                      na
   tives on board from 68. 30. 70i. and
                                             72*— they are all the same
   people, the women dressed in the same manner as the men, only
   their hair tied on the crown of their head, and a small sort of
   peak on the fore and after part of their jackets.      We have been
-so anxious to get on the more interesting part of our vovage, that
 little- attention has been paid to the natives here.          The most
  astonishing things to be seen here are the ice-bergs — their size
 an dnumber surpass fancy.         From the65th deg. to this, the sea is
 literally covered with bergs, and we see no end to them : where
  they are generated is yet unknown to us ; it is not in 74. or to
 the southward on this coast. That they are formed on the land
 is certain, from the many stones of great size which are seen :
 some of them are covered with sand and dist, others have regu
 lar strata of sand and stones running through them horizontally.
 They are of all forms — generally they have a high cleft on one
 side, and shelve down to the water on the other : some exceed
 20tt feet perpendicular all round. — Loose or stream ice consists
 of pieces about the size of an acre and under, about a foot above
 the surface : when it is blown together by strong winds, one piece
 is edged up on the top of another, it is then called packed ice, or
 a pack.      Flaws are large pieces of field ice.   The ice generally
-drifts with the wind, though a current must set southward, or
 how would the bergs find their way south ? We have not been able
 to detect any current. The flood tide sets here from southward.
 At Waygat we had a- rise and fall of seven feet at spring tides.
 Where' the ice-bergs drift into shallow water (that is to say 150
 fathoms or under), they ground, and obstruct the passage of the
  smaller ice, and form barriers which it is difficult to pass. In 68.
  there is a reef, in 70*. another, in 74. another, generally found
  full of ice by the fishers ; we have found it the same.      In stand
 ing a few leagues     from   land we find 85  fathoms   here, closer on
  150, 90, and so on. The water runs in small streams from the
  bergs, so we have no difficulty in procuring it.      I am now more
  sanguine of getting a long way north and west than I was at the
 -first of the voyage.    I am of opinion that the ice will clear away,
  and that very soon.       The small ice has been for some time con
  suming fast, and will be all dissolved by the end of this month,
  even without wind to break it.
      "  July 18. — Yesterday an opening in the ice enabled us to get
  to 74. 43. when we were again stopped — the ice here much hea
  vier, and in fields. We are at present fast to a field, in thick fog,
                                                                   which

                             Northern Expedition.                        309
 •which freezes as     it falls, and covers every thing with ice. When
  at tjhe Three Islands we made some further observations on the
  bearings of distant objects by compass, and found a change of
  bearings of three points at east and west.            The compasses for
  some time have traversed very sluggishly ; this, we suppose, is
 owing to the increase of dip. I think it not at all improbable, that,
 as the terrestrial magnetism begins to act more inclined to- the
 compass needle, it will act with less force — the iron of the ship
 still acting at the same angle, draws the needle towards the cen
 tre of the ship, which causes this great deviation of the compass;
 and should we reach the place where the dip is 90, I think the
 compass will stand always north and south by the magnetism of
 the ship. We did not speak the Leith ship ; this must therefore
 take its chance of any craft.             The description of Greenland
 given in Dr. Brewster's Encyclopaedia is so correct, that no one
 need add any thing more on that subject until the face of the
 country is again changed. I had picked up some stones from the
 different parts where we touched, for Dr. Brewster ; but having
 since read the article Greenland in his book, I find that he knows
 more than a ship load could tell him*.               We have been unfor
 tunate in killing animals, so that I have got no crystalline lenses
 for him. I bespoke some eyes of whales from the fishers; but the
 chance of their killing fish, or of our falling in with them again,
 is doubtful. — If we fall in with a Leith ship, I will send the stones.
     '* July 22. —Yesterday we
                                      got an opening, which brought us
                        '
 to the 75th deg.         The whales begin to make their appearance,
 several having been killed within these eight days.               The main
 land appears one continued smooth ridge of snow, only here and
there the black peak of a mountain appearing; some large islands
 on the coast less covered with snow ; the land ice extends three
or four leagues off, so there is no prospect of approaching the
coast hereabouts. We sound occasionally in from 200 to 4C0 fa
thoms soft mud and small stones.             Three days we were beset in
the ice ; could not observe any current, by the lead lying at the
bottom, though the ice on the surface was in motion.
     '-'July 2.5. — Lat. 75 • 21. long. 60. 30. Got here this morn
ing, and now see more clear water than we have seen for some
time past. We must now be crossing the magnetic Pole fast, as
the variation increases so much.             It is puzzling to find out ex
actly how the ship is steering by the compass ; what with the
great variation and error, arising from the ship's attraction and
the sluggish traversing of the compasses, we must consider some
                                                                             *
time before a course orwind can be properly named. We are nowthe
    * Tlie article '             '
                     Greenland     was written  by Sir Charles Gictecke, who
spent seven years in that country.
                                     U 3                       northernmost

310 Failure of Captain Buchan's Branch           of the Expedition.
northernmost ship, and have made fast to the ice, on purpose to
send away a few letters.       The fish are turning so very plenty,
that all the ships are employed, and probably will proceed no
further north this season.      This afternoon we got jammed be
tween two flaws, and seeing a ship taking fish at a snort distance
from us, Captain Ross sends all his dispatches with her, in case
 of not falling in with any other, or ice opening and separating
 us. You will hear from me by every oppportunity.
                                          "  I am, &c.         J. R.
    "  P. S.  While writing   these  last lines, the ice has closed all
round us, and fast to the northward. You may guess how fickle
it is. We are now about three miles off a small rocky island, in
270 fathoms mud; the island four or five leagues from the main
land, and ice connecting it.       The temperature of the water to
day is 36 deg. higher than it has been for some weeks.          We see
land bearing N.W. by W. true."
      Failure of Captain Buchan's Branch of the Expedition.
    On Oct. 15, Mr. Fisher, an officer of the Dorothea (discovery
 ship) , Captain Buchan, arrived at the Admiralty with dispatches,
 announcing the return of that ship and her consort the Trent
 sloop from the North Pole.       It appears that the highest latitude
 the ships ever attained was about SO. 30. longitude 12 east. They
 attempted proceeding to the westward ; but, as in the case of
 Captain Phipps in the Racehorse in 1773, they found an im
 penetrable barrier of ice.     The ships proceeded nearly over the
 same space as Captain Phipps did, and met with similar impedi
 ments to those experienced by that officer.
     Although the object of the discovery ships under Captain
 Buchan has been defeated for the present by the unfortunate ac
 cident which befel the Dorothea, and in consequence thereof the
 question of a practicable passage over the North Pole remains pre
 cisely where it did, there is every reason to believe that the North
 west Expedition, under Captain Ross, will prove successful.
     The following is an extract of a letter from Mr. William Hurst,
  master of the ship Ariel, to his owners, Messrs. Hammond and
  Smith, dated Stromness, Oct. 8 :
     "  A heavy gale came on on the 9th of August from the south
  ward, and we got close beset amongst heavy flaws of ice, where
  we were detained till the 3d of September, without any possi
  bility of getting out. The ship was in great danger while we
  were beset, but happily we escaped clear off ; and I observed in
  lat. 76. 8. N. and there found an open sea. We stood off to the
  westward for 12 hours, and met with no ice. The discovery
                                                                   ships

                          The Arctic Regions.                       311
ships got out of sight of us about the middle of August ; and,
from the appearance it had when we left the ice, I doubt not but
they may find their wished-for passage."
   The following    is an  extract of another letter, dated Stromness,
9th October   :
   " The   Everthorpe of Hull, Captain Hawkins, is arrived here,
all well, with fifteen fish, one of them a small one, said to be the
last ship from Davis's Straits this season — says, he is certain the
discovery ships have got round the land, as he was in lat. 76. 28.
on the 4th September, and could not see a bit of ice to the N. W.
or N.E. of him at that time."
                          The Arctic Regions.
   As it is now very probable that the persons employed on the
northern expeditions will winter in these drear and inhospitable
regions, it may not be uninteresting to our readers to recall to
their recollection the features of the revolving year, as observed
in the Arctic Circle.
   After the continued action of the sun has at last melted away
the great body of ice, a short and dubious interval of warmth oc
curs. In the space of a few weeks, visited only by slanting and
enfeebled rays, frost again resumes his tremendous sway.               It
begins  to snow   as  early as  August,   and the whole ground   is  co
vered to the depth of two or three feet before the month of Oc
tober. Along the shores and the bays, the fresh water, poured
from rivulets, or drained from the thawing of former collections
of snow, becomes quickly converted into solid ice. As the cold
augments, the air deposits its moisture, in the form of a fog,
which freezes into a fine gossamer netting, or spicular icicles,
dispersed through the atmosphere, and extremely minute, that
might seem to pierce and excoriate the skin. The hoar frost set
tles profusely, in fantastic clusters, on every prominence.         The
whole surface of the sea steams like a lime-kiln ; an appearance
called the frost-smoke, caused, as in other instances of the pro
duction of vapour, by the water's being still relatively warmer
than the incumbent air.        At length the dispersion of the mist,
and consequent clearness of the atmosphere, announce that the
upper stratum of the sea itself has become cooled by the same
standard ; a sheet of ice spreads quickly over the smooth ex
 panse, and often gains the thickness of an inch in a single night.
 The darkness of a prolonged winter now broods impenetrably
over the frozen continent, unless the moon chance, at times, to
obtrude her faint rays, which only discover the horrors and wide
desolation of the scene.       The wretched settlers, covered with a
load of bear-skins, remain crowded and immured in their hut,
every chink of which they carefully stop up against the piercing
                                  U 4                          external

312                       The Arctic Regions.
 external cold ; and cowering about the stove or the lamp, they
  seek to doze away the tedious night. Their slender stook of pro
 visions, though kept in the same apartment, is often frozen so
 hard as to require to be cut with a hatchet.        The whole of the
 mside of their hut becomes lined with a thick crust of ice ; and,
 if they happen for an instant to open a window, the moisture of
  the confined air is immediately precipitated in the form of a
 shower of snow. As the frost continues to penetrate deeper, the
 rocks are heard at a distance to split with loud explosions.     The
 sleepof death seems to wrap up the scene in utter and oblivious ruin.
     At length the sun re-appears above the horizon ; but his lan
 guid beams rather betray the wide waste, than brighten the pro
 spect.    By degrees, however, the further progress of the frost is
 checked.     In the month of May, the famished inmates venture
 to leave their hut in quest of fish on the margin of the sea.      As
 the sun acquires elevation, his power is greatly increased.      The
 snow gradually wastes away ; the ice dissolves apace ; the vast
 fragments of it, detached from the cliffs, and undermined beneath,
 precipitate  themselves   on the shores with the noise and crash of
 thunder.     The ocean   isnow unbound, and its icv dome broken
 up with tremendous rupture.        The enormous fields of ice, thus
 set afloat, are,    the violence of winds and currents, again dis
                    by
 severed and dispersed.      Sometimes impelled in opposite direc
 tions, they approach and strike with         amutual shock, like the
crash of worlds; sufficient,       if
                                   opposed,   to  reduce to atoms ina
moment the proudest monuments of human power.           It   isimpos
sible to picturea  situation more awful than that of the poor crew
of whaler, who see their frail bark thus fatally inclosed, ex
     a
pecting immediate and inevitable destruction.
     Before the end of June, the shoals of ice in the arctic seas are
commonly divided, scattered, and dissipated. But the atmosphere
is  then almost continually damp, and loaded with vapour.           At
this season of the year,       dense fog generally covers the surface
                               a
of the sea, of milder temperature indeed than the frost-smoke,
              a
yet produced   by  the inversion of the same cause. The lower
stratum of air, as   itsuccessively touches the colder body of water,
becomes chilled, and thence disposed to deposit its moisture.
Such thick fogs, with mere gleams of clear weather, infesting
the northern seas during the greater part of the summer, render
their navigation extremely dangerous. In the course of the month
of July, the superficial water          is,
                                      at last, brought to an equili
brium of temperature with the air, and the sun now shines out
with a bright and dazzling radiance.         For some days before the
close of the summer, such excessive heat           accumulated in the
                                                  is
bays and sheltered spots, that the tar and pitch are sometimes
melted, and run down the ships' sides.
                                                                  The

         Steam-Engines.      — Scientific     Researches in      Brasil.        313
     The ice which obstructs the navigation of the arctic seas con
 sists of two very different kinds ; the one produced by the con
 gelation of fresh, and the other by that of salt water.                  In those
 inhospitable    tracts,  the   snow    which   annually   falls  on  the   islands
 or continents, being again       dissolved    by the  progress     of  the sum
 mer's heat, pours forth numerous rills of limpid streams, which
 collect along the indented shores, and in the deep bays inclosed
 by precipitous rocks.         There, this clear and gelid water soon
 freezes, and every successive year supplies an additional invest
 ing crust, till, after the lapse of several centuries, the icy mass
 rises, at least to the size and aspect of a mountain, commensurate
 with the elevation of the adjoining cliffs. The melting of the
 snow, which is afterwards deposited on such enormous blocks,
 likewise contributes to their growth; and by filling up the acci
dental holes or crevices, it renders the whole structure compact
 and uniform.         Meanwhile, the principle of destruction has al
 ready begun      its  operations.      The ceaseless agitation of the sea
 gradually wears and undermines the base of the icy mountain,
 till at length, by the action of its own accumulated weight, when
 it has perhaps attained an altitude of a thousand or even two
 thousand feet, it is torn from its frozen chains, and precipitated
 with a tremendous plunge into the abyss below.                     This mighty
 launch now floats like a lofty island on the ocean, till, driven
 southward by winds and currents, it insensibly wastes and dis
solves away in the wide Atlantic.
                      STEAM ENGINES IN CORNWALL.
     From Messrs. Leans' Report for September 181S, it appears
 that the following was the work performed during that month,
by the engines reported, with each bushel of coals.
                                Founds of water lifted       Load pei- square
                             1 foot high with each bushel.    inch in cylinder.
28 common engines averaged                23,005,446               various.
Woolf's at Wheal Vor               . .     28,3/7,658              17- 8 lib.
Ditto         Wh. Abraham . .             47,540,653               16-8
 Ditto         ditto     ..        ..      21,565,551                67
 Wheal Abraham engine              . .     36,753,433              109
United Mines ditto                  . .    39,608,998              18- 7
 Treskirby ditto         . .       . .     37,320,477               10- S
Wheal Chance ditto                  ,.     30,S 17,772              11- 9
                  SCIENTIFIC     RESEARCHES IN BRASIL.
     Mr. William Swainson, F.L.S. has just returned to this coun
try from Brasil.        He quitted England in the autumn of 1816, for
the sole purpose of exploring that distant country, and collecting
its splendid     and extraordinary productions.             Mr. S. proceeded
                                                                                 in

 314                   Scientific Researches in Brasil.
 in the first instance to Pernambuco, where he was detained by
 the insurrection which broke out there the following year.           On
 tranquillity being again restored,       he proceeded (partly by land)
 to Bahia, where he remained till the beginning of this year,
 chiefly occupied in visiting different parts of that province, and
 in a journey towards the interior, in the desert tracts of which,
 besides many other unknown birds, he was fortunate in discover
 ing the superb Psittacus augustus, the hyacinthine Macaw*.
 At Bahia Mr. S. fell in with the two Prussian naturalists sent
 out by that government, Mr. Freyeries and Dr. Sellow, the latter
 a young but able botanist ; they had just completed an arduous
journey along the coast from Rio de Janeiro, and which had
 taken them eighteen months.             During part of this time they
 had lived with the Bootocoodi Indians, a tribe possessing customs
 the most singular, and of whom little hitherto is known.           While
 Mr. S.     staid  in this province, these naturalists did not go beyond
 the shores of the bay.           Among other unknown animals, Mr.
 Freyeries had discovered a species of bat, perfectly white, with
 an appendage at its tail resembling the two last joints of a small
 rattle-snake.        From Bahia Mr. S. proceeded to Rio de Janeiro,
 where he met with an assemblage of scientific men sent out by
 almost every continental sovereign, though by none with such
 munificence as the Emperor of Austria, whose daughter the
 Princess Leopo'dina is united to the heir of the Portuguese and
  Brasilian crowns. The scientific mission which accompanied her
 to Brasil consisted of no fewer than seven persons, viz. Professor
  Micken, botanist; M. Schott, gardener ; Dr. Pohl, mineralogist;.
  M. Buckberger, botanical painter ; and M. Enter, landscape
  painter ; M. Natterer, zoologist, with an assistant.           It is la
  mentable however to add, that with means so liberal and en
  lightened, little, comparatively, has been done ; for, from various
  causes, not one of the party had been more than forty miles from
  the capital ; all had embarked for Europe this spring, with the
 exception of the two latter, who are preparing for a journey into
  the vast province of Matto Grosso, situated in the centre of South
  America, and which, in every sense, may be considered as al
  most unknown.          France has to boast of M. Augr. de St. Hilaire,
  who, as a botanist, has ably explored the province of Minas, and
  the banks of the Rio St. Francesco, and who is meditating an
  other journey; and Dr. Langsdorff, the Russian Minister, is
  supplying the Imperial Museum with a multitude of objects in
  every branch of natural history.        Even the principality of Tus
  cany has sent out an experienced botanist, Professor Raddi, of
     * The only specimen ever seen of this bird was purchased alive by the
  then   Lord Orford, for 200 guineas. See also Shaw's General Zoology,
  vol. viii. p. 393.
                                                                Florence ;

                       Deer destroy Serpents.                          315
Florence ; and the Portuguese Court, ashamed of seeing other
nations employed in collecting and recording the productions of
their own woods and mountains, have recently established a
National Museum, and taken measures for active researches.
Added to all these, the King of Bavaria some time ago sent out
Messrs. Spix and Martins, the one a zoologist, the other a bo
tanist, both known by their works to the scientific world, and
who are now travelling the provinces between Rio de Janeiro and
Eahia.    By such enlightened policy, and various talent, this
luxuriant country will soon be better known.     But the ignorance
which until very lately has existed respecting    it, added to the
vast extent of territory    covers, will for years render
                           it                             it  widea
and almost boundless field for the researches of the philosopher
and the naturalist. The collections made   byMr. Swainson, in-bo-
tany, ornithology, and entomology, are, we understand, very ex
tensive, particularly in the latter department, and a relation of
his travels may probably be laid before the public.
                   DEER DESTROY SERPENTS.
  The following extract from Col. Maurice Heating's Travels
presents a curious fact in natural history :— " Mr. Dowling, who
passed many years of his life in and about St. Ildefonso, in the
course of adverting to the progress of his manufactory, had fre
quently been eye-witness to      very surprising occurrence here—
                                 a
deer swallowing live serpents.    He describes the fact as follows:
The deer, after discovering, examines the serpent for some time;
he then places both his fore feet successively on       it, standing
somewhat straddling, so as to keep the reptile distended to its
utmost length.     He has probably in the first instance secured
the head. The deer then puts his mouth down to the middle of
the snake, thereby taking      in and then raising his head and
                                it   ;
neck to horizontal level with his body, and protruding his chin,
        a
so as to make his head on aline with his neck, he appears to suck
the snake down double, moving his jaws for the purpose, but
not chewing  ;  the head and tail of the reptile, writhing, being
the last parts of it seen.   Of this strange appetite and extraor
dinary process Mr. Dowling had seen numerous instances.                  It
brings to mind the      cervi pasli serpente medulla'          necro
                       4
                                                              (a
 mantic ingredient) of the poet."
     The foregoing fact brings to our recollection another of the
 same kind.     Swine are also devourers of serpents.        In some
 parts of America they take advantage of this fact.     When piece a
 of ground infested with these reptiles   is   to be cleared, having
 first inclosed the piece sufficiently to prevent the swine from
 wandering beyond their allotted boundary, they drive         number
                                                              a
 of them into the ground       and when these have had sufficient
                                ;
                                                                 time

316           Prase in Scotland. — Tar Light. — Patents.
time to clear it of snakes, the work of clearing away the wood is
proceeded on.
                   PRASE DISCOVERED IN SCOTLAND.
   We understand that Dr. MacCulloch has recently discovered
prase in Scotland, and that it is found in Loch Hourn forming
veins in a gneiss which contains actinolite schist.     To this sub
stance it is known to be indebted for its colour.      Our mineralo-
gical readers will be glad thus to know that they may increase
their collections of British minerals by a variety of quartz which
is no where very common.          It may probably not be known to
them that      the  " prase" mentioned in Jamieson's Mineralogy is
a quartz penetrated and coloured by chlorite, a substance very
common in Argyllshire, but essentially distinct from the mineral
iu question.
                    TAR LIGHT FOR STREET LAMPS.
    It is stated in an American newspaper that Professor Hare, of
William and Mary College in Virginia, has invented an appara
tus for burning tar instead of oil, in lighting cities and manufac
tories. — It is said that tar burned in this apparatus gives a strong
and clear light ; and it is computed, that four or five barrels of
tar will serve a lamp for one year, and will give eight times the
light of a common street lamp.        The following is given in the
Union as a description of the apparatus : — It " consists of a foun
tain reservoir to hold four or five pounds of tar to supply the lamp
at a uniform height, and a lantern with a draught pipe attached
to it. — The lamp presents at one end a cylindrical mouth for re
ceiving the pipe of the reservoir; at the other end a cylindrical
cup, in which the tar is ignited, the flame being drawn up through
a central hole in the bottom of the lantern so as to occupy its
axis in passing to the draught pipe.       All the air which supplies
this is made to meet in the same axis, and thus to excite the
combustion."
              LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
   To Thomas Parker the younger, of Seven Oaks, in the county
of Kent, bricklayer, for his method or methods of regulating and
improving the draught of chimneys.   "
                                        — 2 months allowed for spe
cification, dated 5th Oct. 1818.
   To William Finch, of Birmingham, gentleman, for certain im
provements in bridles for horses, which he intends to denominate
" Philanthropic bridles." — 12th Oct. — 2 months.
   To Samuel Hobday, of Birmingham, snuffer-maker, for his
new and improved method or principle in the making of snuffers
without any spring or lever. — 12th Oct. — 2 months.
   To Sir William Congreve, of Cecil-street, in the city of West
minster, baronet, for his discovered and invented certain new
methods of constructing steam-engines. — 19thOct. — 6 months.
                                                            Meteoro-

                              Meteorology.                        317
Meteorological Journal kept at IValthamstow, Essex, from
                  September 15 to October 15, 1818.
[Usually between the Hours of Seven and Nine A.M. and the Thermometer
            (a second time) between Twelve and Two P.M.J
Date. Therm. Barom. Wind.
September
 15    59   29•90     SVV. — Grav and windy; some clouds; fine day
       68               till 2 P.M. thet: rain till after 5 P.M., and
                        then a hard shower ; cloudy night.
 16    45   29•65     SW. — Cirrus and clear ; very fine morn ; fine
       61               day;cloudsand sun, and very slight showers j
                        showers of rain and wind at night.
 17    43  .29•91     N. — Very clear and windy; clouds and clear;
       58               moon-light and tumuli.
 18    48   30-10     S— SE.— Hazy ; slight rain at 9 A.M. till af-
      59                ter 2 P.M.; cloudv at 9; stars and cumuli
                        at 1 1 P.M.
 19    54   29•90     SE. — Clear, and fine cirrocumuli ; fine day ;
       67               and some very slight showers ; a remarkably
                        black small cumulus passed over the moon
                        about   \\\  P.M.
 20    59   29•60     SE. — Fine morn ; cirroslratus and clear ;
       68               some slight showers; fine day; cloudy night.
 21    59   29-40     SE.— Cloudy; rain from about 9 A.M. to 1
       67               P.M. ; sun and clouds; a great shower about
                        4 P.M. ; clear night.
 22    52   29-60     SE. — Clear and cirroslratus -? very fine day;
       67               bright star-light.    Moon last quarter.
 23    53   29•60     SE. — Clear morning; fine day; some1showers
       67               after noon ; dark and rainy.
 24    54   29•60     SE. — Rain and hazy ; fine day; sun and cu-
       67               muli; dark night.
 25    52   29•60     N. — Gray morn; fine dav; very rainv since
       68               5 P.M.
 26    51   29•40     W—SW.— Rain till about        9  A.M.  ; showers
       63                aud sun  ; fine day; dark and rainy.
 27    51   29•60     SE. — Fine morn ; sunshine ; a slight shower;
       64               rain after 3 P.M. ; star-light.
 28    59   29•60     SE. — Fine sun and cirroslratus; very fine hot
       70               dav; fine red sunset; star-light.
 29    59   29•60     SE—E.— Clear        and cumuli; fine hot day;
       67               calm ; stars<-but not very bright.
 30    59   29•40     E— SE.— Rain and wind early; fine hot day;
       64               star-light, very hot.    New moon.
                                                               October

318                          Meteorology.
Date. Therm. Barom. Wind.
October
  1   56   29.40    SE. — Clear and cirroslralus ;     a small shower
      67              about 10 A.M.; clouds, wind, and sun;
                      showers ; clear and star-light.
 2    49   29.55    E — SE. — Sun; clear high; stratus low; white
      64              dew ; fine day ; very bright star-light, and
                      aurora borealis.
 3    57           SE — SW. — Orange red-sun-rise; clouds and
      64              wind ; rain began before 8 A.M. and lasted
                      almost incessantly till near9P.M. ; star-light.
 4    54            SW — NVV. — Sunand hazy; very fine morning;
      60              a great shower and thunder and lightning
                      about noon ; some showers after ; star-light
                      and windy.
 5    49   29.45    NVV — S. — Clear, cirrostratus, and windy; sun,
      57              and very slight showers ; at 4 P.M. hazy and
                      damp ; some rain ; dark night early ; bright
                      star-light at midnight.
 6    41   29.29    W — NW. — Clear, & some cirrostratus; wind ;
                     very fine day ; at 3 P.M. Ther. 56 ; a shower
                     after 5 P.M. ; bright star-light.
 7    37   29.50    NW— N.— Sun; hazy;           strong dew; very
      55             fine   day ; star and moon-light bright. —
                     Moon first quarter.
 8    38   29.70    NW— N. — Foggy morning; very fine day;
      56             sun and wind ; fine moon and star-light.
 9    38   29.S0    SE—W—SW.— Very foggy early; very calm;
      57             very fine day; dark night.
10    55   29.65   SW. — Hazy morning; damp hazy day; neither
      66              moon nor stars visible, but not very dark.
11    58   29.50    SW. — Hazy    ; slight rain early or in the night ;
      62     ,       gray ;   showers   and some sun ; rain.
12    45   29.70    SW. — Fine clear sun-rise ; hazy at 8 A.M.;
      57             very fine hot day ; bright moon-light.
13    49   29.80   E— S. — Gray morning; fine sunny day;
      59             bright moon and star-light.
14   52    29.91   E — SE. — Fine morning; white dew and sun ;
     66              very fine hot day ; bright moon-light. Full
                     moon.
15   54    29.91   SE — Red sun-rise ; fine morning, and some
     66              slight showers after S A.M. ; clouds and
                     sun ; fine d.ay ; ver) warm; slight rain and
                     cirrostratus.
                                                            METEORO-

                             Meteorology.                             319
          METEOROLOGICAL        JOURNAL KEPT AT          BOSTON,
                            LINCOLNSHIRE.
     [The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at 1 P.M.J
          Age of
  1818     the   Thermo   Baro     State of the Weather and Modification-
          Moon    meter.  meter.              of the Clouds.
          DAYS.
Sept. 15    15     54•     29.71   Rain
      16    16     55-     29'67   Cloudy  — rain   in the evening
      17    17     59-     30-13   Ditto
      18    IS     61-5    30-10   Ditto
      19    19     C6-5    29-87   Ditto
      20   20      63'     29-71   Ditto
      21   21      6P      29.47   Rain
      22   22      63-     29-76   Cloudy
      £3   23      64-     29-75   Ditto — heavy vain at night
      24   24      64-     29-69   Fine— do. A. M.
      25   25      60-     29-75   Cloudy — do. at night
      26   26      58'     29-65   Ditto — rain A.M.
      27   27      59-     29-71   Fine
      28   28      695     29•79   Very fine
      29 29        655     29•81   Ditto
      30 new       60-     29-63 Cloudy
Oct.    l     1    66-     29-60 Fine
        2     2    64.5    29-73   Very fine
        3    3     63-     29-57   Rain
        4    4     56-5    29-56   Ditto
        5     5    57'     29-40   Cloudy
        6     6    56-     29-39   Fine
        7     7    55-     29-66   Ditto
        8     8    55-   •29-90    Ditto
        9    9     59-     29-89   Cloudy
      10    10     61-5    29-65   Ditto — rain in the evening
      1 1   1 1    64-5    20-60   Fine — heavy rain, storm at night
      12   12      59'     29-82   Ditto
      13   13      60-     22-91   Ditto — shower A. M.
      14   full    67'    30-07    Ditto
                                                                MKT.EORO

320                                    Meteorology.
                           METEOROLOGICAL                          TABLE,
                       By M~. Cv               r,    op      ikb Strand,
                                     For October IZ 16.
                   Thermometer.
                                     —1
                                                                   n    — S
                                               Height of
 Days of          u =
                                                                   ;o>3>,o=
                                      u    .
                  o °=                         the Barom.                                Weather.
 Mo mil.          o        Noon.
                                     5    ~>
                       5
                                                Indies.            £•£       3d
                  ,°
                       s              -                            auj-
 Sept. 27         55       64         60       29-70                   27         Showerv
         28       60       66         60            •75                36         Fair
         29       61       69         57            •63                40         Showery
         30       60       66         59            •50                40         Showery
  Oct.   l        60       68         57            •53                 29        Showery
                  60       66         57            •63                41         Fair
          4 3 2
                  59       64         59            •4                            Rain
                                                                        0 0
                                                         7
                  57       66         56            •50                           Stormy
                  56       60         50            •50                36         Showery
          6 5     45                  48
                           56                       •35                30         Showery
          7       44       58         47            •55                35         Fair
                  44       55         47            •69                30         Fair
          9 8     42       60         55            •82                32         Fair   -
         10       55       62         57            •60                29         Cloudy
      1
      1           58       63         50            •54                 0         Rain
         12       57       64         50            •90                36         Fair
         13       56       65         57            •86                30         Cloudy
         14       57       68         59            •97                39         Fair
         15       CO       67         57            •95                31         Cloudy
         16       60       69         60       30.02                   36         Fair
         17       5.5      64         55            •02                35         Fair
         18       55       62         55       29-93                   39         Fair
         19       55       63         56       30-04                   40         Fair
         20       54       61         50            •16                36         Fair
         21       45       56         52            •09                42         Fair
         22       49       55         48       29-97                   30         Fair
         23       49       50         49          .99                  29         Cloudv
         24       50       51         50       30-03                   2S         Cloudy
         2.5      52       59         55            •05                30         Fair
         26       55       62         54            •12                36         Fair
                  N.B. The         Barometer's height        is   taken at one o'clock.

                                   r    32i     ]
LIII.    On Measuring the Depths of Cavities seen on the Sur
          face of the Moon. By ^.Correspondent.
                               To      Mr. Tillocli.
Sir, —       The  attention of astronomers having for years past
been directed to measuring the altitudes of lunar mountains, I
have frequently been surprised that no attempts have yet been
made to ascertain the depths of those cavities which are so con
spicuous on the surface of the moon.
    Under a conviction that determining the depths of such ca
vities will not be considered unworthy of notice, after the first
astronomers of Europe have endeavoured to ascertain the heights
of mountains on the moon's surface, I beg leave to submit to
the examination     of your readers the inclosed method of mea
suring  the  depths  of lunar cavities.
                        I remain, sir, yours, &c.
Islington,   Sept. 26, 1818.   .                                 H. M.
   " Having  given the apparent length of a shadow projected by
the side of a lunar cavity on the bottom of            it,
                                               and the angle be
tween the edge of the cavity and the boundary of vision or moon's
limb, to find the depth from the edge to the bottom of the ca
                                                       -     -
vity.
                                         B
    Let I    be the direction of
             d                     ray of light touching the edge
                                          a                              b
of the cavitv    I d
                   cand falling on the bottom              d;
                                                   then will     re-
                                                                 Id
   Vol. 52. No. 247. Nov. 1818.              X               present

322       On Measuring the Depths of the Moon's Cavities.
present the shadow projected by the side hod.                   Let bi and gh
represent     lines    drawn from    the  observer to the extremities b and d
of the shadow; and ABDE the circular plane in which are found
the straight lines g h and the point b.             Let EC be the direction
of a line joining the centres of the earth and this plane; then
g h and b i may be considered parallel and in the same plane,
 that is the plane ABDE.
      Draw the diameter AD at right angles to EC ; AD then is
the boundary of vision. First let the moon be in quadratures ; d               I
will then be perpendicular to g h, that is to EC, and EC will be
the boundary of illumination; therefore bd=hi, that is the
apparent = to the true length of the shadow.
      Hence, in the right - angled &bde are given, and the
  zbde — \/.hCb the angle made between the edge of the ca-
vitv and the <L 's limb) to find b e, the depth required.
      If the moon be not in quadratures, b d is not perpendicular
to li, and consequently the apparent not equal to the true
length of the shadow.
       In this case let r t be supposed to be the direction of a ray
touching the edge of the cavity r t a.
      Let fall the perpendiculars t z and ry, join r C, and draw w t
parallel to DC, and from / let fall to perpendicular to r q ;
then will w t be the apparent length of the shadow, r t the true
length, and r o the depth of the cavity.
      In the triangle u> t r are given the side w t and the angle
 w t r = (the elongation if the moon be in her first or last quarters,
 or to its supplement if in the second or third quarters) to find r t.
 Then in the Ar.o.t. the Lr.t.o. = the /.r t z— /.o.t.r. But
  /r.t.z = /.l.r.z. — Zz.C.B = the                  J 's elongation and the
 (as o.t.r. and z.c.q. being similar)           /.o.t.r. = D.C.r. the angle
 between the edge of the cavity and 5 's limb .\ /.r.t.o. =                 Lrtz
  — t o.t.z. and r t are given to find r.o. the depth required.
     If («) be put t= the angle between the edge of the cavity and
   <[ 's limb,     (I ) = the apparent length of the shadow, (e ) =
 the elongation, and (d ) = the depth of the cavity ; — the fol
 lowing formulae are deducible :
                                                            ,xc"
           When  '
                     the moon   is  in quadratures
                                        1
                                                      d=           .
                                                              radius
           ,T7,           .
           When not ;n quadratures
                             1
                                  ,                    ,
                                                      d—   —
                                                           sine(cc-3a') x (
                                                                 :          .
                                                               sme c.
     The angle (a ) between the edge of the cavity and the moon's
 limb is taken by placing one wire of a micrometer so as to join
 the cusps, and moving the other from the edge of the cavity till
 it becomes a tangent to the disk : the measure thus taken : ra
 dius : : d 's semidiameter : to the versed sine of (a) .
                                                                              The

        Observations upon the Pfuenomena          of Earthquakes.      323
    The angle under which the shadow appears              is taken in the
 same manner ;     and  the  moon's     semidiameter    : this measure : :
 semidiameter in miles : the length of the shadow.
     As the result deduced from the above operation will always be
 the depth of that part of the cavity on which the extremity of the
 shadow falls, the difficulty of ascertaining when the shadow falls
 on the bottom may be objected to it : — this, however, may always
 be obviated by continuing the observations until their result. be
 comes a maximum, which will evidently be the depth of the
 deepest part; or in those cavities in which prominences or bright
 spots appear, it may be more easily done by observing when one
of these prominences (which are no doubt situated at the bot
 toms of their respective cavities) is in the line which forms the
boundary of the shadow.
    By repeated observations some idea may be formed of the in
terior shapes of these cavities.        If from a few continued mea
surements the same depths are deduced, it maybe concluded that
the bottom is a plane surface : if they are found gradually to in
crease and afterwards decrease in the same proportion, that part
of the interior surface will be shown either to be formed by the
inclination of two planes meeting at the bottom, or to be a curve :
to which of these classes it belongs may be ascertained from the
nature of this increase.      Any considerable irregularities in the
bottom or sides will be marked by corresponding diminutions in
the depth of the cavity, or length of the shadow.          Whether these
speculations are carried further     than   is sanctioned by the present
state of our best instruments, remains for the determination of
those who are possessed of them, and are accustomed to use
them."
LIV.    Conjectures concerning the Cause, and Observations upon
    the Phce?iomena, of Earthquakes ; particularly of that great
    Earthquake of the first of November 1755, which proved so
   fatal to the City of Lisbon, and whose Effects were felt as
   Jar as Africa, and more or less throughout almost all Europe ;
    by the Rev. loan Michell, M.A. Fellow of Queen's College,
    Cambridge.
                                      from p. 2/0.]                '
                         [Concluded
                       Part III. — Section        I.
    65.  J.N the former part of this tract, I supposed       a part of the
roof over   some subterraneous    fire to fall in : this is an event that
cannot happen merely accidentally; for so long as the roof rests
on the matter on fire, no part of it can fall in, unless the mat
ter below could rise and take its place: now, it is very diffi
cult to conceive how this should happen, unless it was to rise by
                                   X 2                               some

     324         Conjectures concerning the Cause, and Observations
    some larger passages than the ordinary fissures of the earth, which
    seem much too narrow for that purpose; for, besides that the
    melted matter cannot be supposed to have any very great degree of
    fluidity, it must necessarily have a hard crust formed upon         at all                         it,
    the fissures,      the long continued contact of the water contained
                             by
    in them these impediments seem too great to be overcome by
                      :
    the difference of the specific gravities of the part that         to fall                        is
     in, and  the  melted  matter,  which    the  only  cause
                                                          is   that can tend
    to make        descend
                       it     the manner therefore, in which,
                                        ;                           suppose,                     I
     this event may be brought about,         as follows: is
i       66. The matter of which any subterraneous fire            composed^                 is
    must be greatly extended* beyond its original dimensions              the                              by
    heat.     As this will be brought about gradually, whilst the matter
    spreads itself, or grows hotter, the parts over the fire will be gra
    dually raised and bent and this bending will, for some time, go
                                            ;
    on without any other consequence; but, as the fire continues to
    increase, the earth will at last begin to be raised somewhat be
    yond the limits of it.      By this means, an annular space will be
    formed at the edges next to the fire, and surrounding              verti                     it,   a
    cal section of which space, through       a diameter of the fire, will
    be two long triangles, the shortest side or base of each lying next
     the fire, and the two longer sides being formed          the upper and            by
    lower strata, which will be separated for          considerable extent,
                                                                        a
    proportionably      to the distance through which they are raised
     from each otherf.       This space will be gradually filled with wa
     ter, as       formed, the melted matter being prevented from fill
                     by it
    ing          its want of fluidity, as well as on account of the other
               it,      is
    circumstances, under which             to spread itself for the lentor
                                                it   is                                ;
    and sluggishness of this kind of matter        such, that, when some
                                                                   is
                                                                                                             what
         • As all bodies we are acquainted with are liable to be extended
                                                                               by heat,
      there can be no doubt of its being so in this case likewise   but the matter of  ;
      subterraneous fires      yet much more extended, than those bodies which are
                                   is
      only capable of being melted into     solid glass,
                                                a           we may judge of
                                                                    if             from                   it
      what we see of volcanos for the lavas, sciari, and pumice stones, thrown
                                            ;
    ^out from thence, even after they are cold, are commonly of much less spe
     cific gravity, on account of their porous spongy texture, than the generality
     of earth, stones, &c. and they frequently are even lighter than water, which
    is   itself lighter than any known fossil bodies, that compose strata in their
     natural state.
         •f-In fig. 4. A    supposed to represent
                              is                     vertical section of the matter
                                                               a
     on fire BB, parts of the same stratum yet unkindled
                ;                                                 CC, the two sec ;
     tions of the annular space, (surrounding the fire) which            supposed to        is
     be filled with water, as far as the strata are separated        D, the several    ;
     sets of earth, stones, &c. lying over the fire, which are raised       little, and          a
     bent, by the expansion of the matter at A. As             not easy to represent
                                                                        it   is
     the tilings above described in their due proportions,        may not be amiss,
                                                                                  it
     in order to prevent the figure here given from misleading the reader, to give
    some random measures of the several parts, such as may probably approach
                                                                              towards

                    upon the Pkcenomena,                 of Earthquakes.                       325
what   cooled on the surface by the contact of the air only, it
will not flow, perhaps, ten feet in a month, though in a very large
body; instances of which we have in the lavas of .'Etna, Vesuvius,
&c.    It is not to be expected then, that it should spread far,
when it comes in contact with water at its edges, as soon as it is
formed, and when it              is,
                          perhaps, several months in acquiring a
thickness of few inches
                a            but     must,
                                       ;       degrees, form
                                                it                by
                                                                kind                       a
of wall between the fire and the opening into the annular space
before described.    This wall will gradually increase in height, till
it becomes too tall in proportion to its thickness, to bear any
longer the pressure of the melted matter; which must necessarily
happen at last, because the thickness of   will not exceed cerit.                          a
tain limit*.
   67. Besides the giving way of this wall, the fire may under
mine the space containing the water, and,     that means, open         by
a communication between them.     Let us suppose one of these
come to pass, and the time arrived when the partition begins to
yield. If then the water had any way to escape readily, the
breach would be made, and the melted matter would burst forth
immediately, and flow out in large quantities at once amongst
it
 ;   but as this   not the case, and
                     is                 can only escape  it  oozing                   by
slowly  between  the strata, and through  the fissures, the way that
it came, the breach will be made gradually, from whence we may
account for some appearances that have preceded great earth
quakes.
towards those which are sometimes found in nature: we may suppose then
the stratum     to be, perhaps, from ten or twenty to
                B                                              hundred yards in
                                                                            a
thickness   ;the greatest height of the annular space C, next the fire, to be
from four or five to ten or fifteen feet, and its greatest extent, horizontally,
from ten or twenty to fifty or sixty feet the horizontal extent of the fire at
                                                     ;
A, may be from half a mile to ten or twenty miles [see art. 29, and the note
                                                                  ;
to art. 53.] and the thickness of the superincumbent matter at D, may be
from   a quarter or half mile to two or three miles the number of the la
                          it a
                                                                    ;
minae also, into which       divided, may be many times more than those in
                                 is
the figure.   As to the perpendicular fissures, they must be so numerous,
and so small, in proportion to the other parts, that chose rather to leave
                                                                       I
them, to be supplied by the imagination of the reader, than attempt to ex
press them in   a manner, that could give no adequate idea of them at all.
    * This limit will depend
                               upon the thickness of the matter necessary to
prevent so quick communication of the heat or cold through
                    a                                                as that theit,
water should be able to diminish the heat of the fire considerably.         The
thickness requisite to do this,     very different in different kinds of bodies.
                                           is
Metals of all kinds transmit heat and cold extremely readily; but bricks
and vitrified substances (with which last we may class the matter under our
present consideration) transmit them veiy slowly: the walls of the hottest
 of our furnaces, when built of bricks, and eighteen inches thick, will not
transmit more heat than living animal can bear without injury, though the
                                 a
 fires are continued in them for ever so long       tima probably, therefore,
                                                              a         ;
if  we allow two feet for the thickness, of the matter, cooled and rendered
 hard  by the contact of the water, we shall not underdo it.
                                            X   3                                      68. We

326       Conjectures concerning the Cause, and Observations
     68. We are told, that two or three days before an earthquake*
in New England, the waters of some wells were rendered muddy,
and stank intolerably: why might not this be occasioned by the
 waters contained in the spaces before described, which, being
 impregnated with sulphureous steair.s, were driven up, and mixed
with the waters of the springs ? At least, there can be no doubt,
 by whatsoever means it was brought about, that this phaeriome-
 non was owing to the same cause, already beginning to exert
 itself, which afterwards gave rise to the succeeding earthquake.
     69. Something like this happened before the great Lisbon
 earthquake     f  of 1755. We are told, that at Colares, about
                                    " in the afternoon preceding the 1st
 twenty miles from thence,
 of November, the water of a fountain was greatly decreased : on
 the morning of the 1 st of November, it ran very muddy, and af
 ter the earthquake, it returned to its usual state, both in quantity
 and clearness."       The same author says, a little lower, " in the
 afternoon of the 24th, I was much apprehensive, that the fol
 lowing days we should have another great earthquake ; for I
observed the same prognostics as in the afternoon of the 3 1st of
 October ; Jthat is," &c. " And I further observed, that the water
 of a fountain began to be disturbed to such a degree, that in the
 night it ran of a yellow clay colour ; and from midnight to the
 morning of the 25th, I felt five shocks, one of which seemed to
 me as violent as that of the 1 1th of December."
     70. But the most extraordinary appearance of any that pre
 ceded this earthquake, was that of the agitation of the waters
 of Lochness J, and some others of the lochs in Scotland, about
 half an hour before any motion was felt at Lisbon, notwithstand
 ing the cause of all these great effects could not lie far from
thence, and, I think, certainly lay to the south of Oporto.                 Nor
is it probable, that there should be any mistake in the time, not
only because the difference is too great, as well as the concur
rent testimonies too many, to admit of such a solution ; but be
cause they mention another greater agitation, that happened
    *  See Philos. Trans. No. 437, or Martyn's Abridgem. vol. viii. p. 689.
    f  See Philos. Trans, vol. xlix. p. 416 and 417 ; or Hist, and Philos. of
 Earthq. p. 313.
    + See Philos. Trans, vol. xlix. — or Hist, and Philos. of
                                                              Earthq. art. Loch
ness, Lochlomond, &c.     The same thing also seems to have taken place in
 Switzerland; for Mons. Bertrand says, that all the agitations of the waters
 m the lakes there, which were observed on the 1 st of November 1/55, hap
pened between nine and ten in the morning ; and particularly at lake Le-
man, he says, the agitation happened just before ten; which, allowing for
the difference of longitude, must have been just before nine at Lisbon; and,
consequently, if there is no mistake in the times, all these agitations pre
ceded the earthquake, at this last place, by near three quarters of an hour.
[See Memoirss sur les Tremblemens de Tcrre, p. 107 & 105.]
                                                                          about

                upon the Phenomena,             of Earthquakes.                         327
about an hour and half after the former ; which latter agrees with
the times when the agitations of the waters were observed in
England, if we allow only a proper interval for the motion to be
propagated so far northward, proportionably to the time it took
up in travelling from its original source near Lisbon.
    71. These appearances seem to be connected with that men
tioned in the preceding article, and they may both, I think, be
accounted for, by supposing a considerable quantity of vapour to
be raised, whilst the partition before-mentioned         was beginning
to give way; during which time a partial communication be
tween the water and fire would be brought on, and that by de
grees only.     Hence the vapour, not being produced at once but
gradually, might creep silently between the strata*, towards that
quarter where the superincumbent mass of earth was lightest
and, by this means, some places very near the source of the va
pour might be little, or not at all, affected by                       it,
                                                           whilst others
 might   be greatly affected, though they lay     at    great distance
                                                                   a                         j,
 and even those places, which lay immediately over the part where
 the vapour was passing, might not perceive any effect, on ac
 count of the gentleness of the motion, occasioned            jhe small      by
 quantity of it. This might continue to be the case, till          came           it
 to some country where, the set of strata above being much
 thinner, the vapour would not only be hurried forward, but col
 lected also into a much narrower compass         and therefore, raising
                                                          ;
 the earth more, would produce more sensible effects            and this     ;
 we ought chiefly to expect in the most mountainous countries,
 according to the idea before given of them                   f.
     72. To make this something clearer, let us suppose, in fig. 1.
 the vapour to be passing between the strata in the dotted line C,
  and to go forwards, till      arrives at A: whilst, then,
                                it                                passes          it
 under the deeper parts at E,          will raise the earth over
                                      it                             but               it
 little, as well because    will be spread broader and thinner, as
                           it
 because it  will be more compressed          the weight of the super
                                                     by
 incumbent matter     ; but as    arrives towards A, not only the lat-
                                 it
   * Some
             appearances that have been observed in New England seem to
confirm this, and make     probable, that a small quantity of vapour
                          it                                             often     is
found to creep silently between the strata, before       general communication
                                                              a
between the water and the fire gives rise to the greater and more sensible
effects of earthquakes.  See Philos. Trans.No. 462 or Martyn's Abr.vol. viii.
                                                              ;
p. 693, where we are told, that, at Newbury,        little before any noise or
                                                          a
shock was perceived, the bricks of an hearth were observed to rise, and,
falling down again, to lean another way. In the same account,              also   it   is
said, that "a   few minutes before any shock came, many people could fore
tell by an alteration in their stomachs
    it                                        an effect, which seems to be of
                                                :"
the same kind with sea-sickness, and which always accompanies the wave
like motion of earthquakes, when      itso weak, as to be uncertainly distin
                                           is
guishable,         f    See art. 43.
                                     X4                                                     ter

 1328      Conjectures concerning the Cause, and Observations
 ter part will be driven forwards with greater velocity, but the
 foremost will travel slower, on account of its travelling under a
 thinner set of strata*; and, besides this, the load being much less,
 it will greatly expand itself. From all these causes taken to
 gether, the wave at the surface of the earth, occasioned by the
 passing of the vapour under           it,
                                      will not only be much higher, but
 also much shorter, and, consequently, the sides of              on bothit,
 these accounts, will be much more inclined to the horizon            and,         :
 moreover, because the progress of the wave will be slower,            will        it
 give moye time to any waters situated on one side of              to flow   it,
 one way; and on this account also, the apparent agitation of
 them will be increased.
     Section II. — 73. We are told, that, in the Lisbon earth
 quake of 1755, " the bar [at the mouth of the Tagus] was seen
•dry from shore to shore      then suddenly the sea, like
                              ;                                mountain,
                                                                      a
 came rolling in     and about Bellem castle, the water rose fifty
                      ;
 feet almost in an instant     and, had
                                  ;           not been for the great bay
                                                  it
 opposite to the city, which received and spread the great flux,
 the low part of      must have been under water f." The same
                      it
 phaenomena     were observed   to accompany the same earthquake at
 the island of Madeira where we are told, that, at the city of
 Funchal, " the sea, which was quite calm, was observed to re
                              ;
 tire suddenly some paces         then rising with
                                  ;                    great swell, with
                                                           a
 out the least noise, and as suddenly advancing,          overflowed the
                                                                it
 shore, and entered the city.           rose full fifteen feet perpendi
                                         It
 cular above high-water mark, although the tide, which ebbs and
 flows there seven feet, was then at half ebb.           In the northern
 part of the island, the inundation was more violent, the sea re
 tiring there above one hundred paces at first, and suddenly re
 turning, overflowed the shore, forcing open doors, breaking down
 the walls of several magazines and storehouses, and carrying away
 in its recess,   aconsiderable quantity of grain, and some hundred
 pipes  of wine  %."
     74. Both these appearances (which have been observed to at
 tend several other earthquakes, as well as this) seem to admit of
 an easy solution, supposing the cause of them to lie under the
 bed of the ocean      for, in the further progress of the communi
                          ;
 cation between the fire and water, the vapour, that            gradually
                                                                        is
 raised at first, will at last begin to raise the roof over the fire,
 which being supported           so light
                                  by         vapour, there will now be
                                                  a
 no want of fluidity in the matter        rests "upon, and the difference
                                             it
 of specific gravity between the two, instead of being small, will be
   * See art. 63, the note.
        See Hist, and Philos. of Earthq. p. 316.
 jf     See Philos. Trans, vol. xlix. p. 432, &c. or   Hist,   and Philos.    of Earthq.
 p. 329.
                                                                                       very

                  upon the Pheenome?ia,     of Earthquakes.                     329
very great: hence, if any part of the roof gives way, it must im
mediately fall in, the vapour readily rising, and taking its place;
and a beginning being once made, a communication                will be
opened   with numberless   clefts  and fissures, that must occasion  the
falling in of vast quantities of matter, which, as soon as the va
pour can pass round them, will want their support ; then will fol
low the great effects* already described.
    75. Now, whilst the roof is raising, the waters of the ocean,
lying over   it,
               must retreat, and flow from thence every way this           ;
however, being brought about slowly, they will have time to re
treat so gently, as to occasion no great disturbance: but as soon
as some part of the roof falls in, the cold water contained in the
fissures of   mixing with the steam, will immediately produce va
            it,                                                                a
cuum, in the same manner as the water injected into the cylinder of
a  steam-engine,and the earth subsiding, and leaving       hollow place
                                                              a
above, the waters will flow every way towards           it,
                                                       and cause a re
treat of the sea on all the shores round about: then presently, the
waters being again converted          the contact of the fire into va
                                     by
pour, together with all the additional quantity, which has now
an open communication with            the earth will be raised, and the
                                     it,
waters over  itwill be  made  to  flow every way, and produce     great    a
wave immediately succeeding the previous retreatf.
    Section III. — 76. That great quantity of water, which we
have supposed to be let out upon subterraneous fires, and,,         that   by
means, to produce earthquakes, will supply us with              reason,
                                                                      a
why they observe sort of periodical return.
                      a                               This water must
extinguish   agreat portion of the burning matter, in consequence
of which,   itwill be contracted within much narrower bounds                       ;
and though the effects before described could not take place at
   * See art. 56 to 60 inclusive.
f    It may, perhaps, be objected, that these phaenomena may as easily be
occasioned by vapour generated under the dry land, which, by first raising
              a
the earth upon the sea-shore, would make the waters retreat; and that the
return of them again, upon its subsiding into its place, might cause the sub
sequent wave. That this may be the case, in some instances,            not im
                                                                      is
possible, but,I    believe, upon examining the particular circumstances,           it
will generally be found to be otherwise; and there cannot be any doubt
about it, in the case of the Lisbon earthquake for the retreat was observed
                                              ;
to precede the wave, not only on the coast of Portugal, but also at the island,
of Madeira, and several other places now, the retreat had been caused
                                      :       if
by the raising of the earth on the coast of Portugal, the motion of the waters
occasioned by this means, when propagated to Madeira, must have produced
a wave there previous to the retreat, contrary to what happened      nor could
                                                                      ;
the motion of the waters at Madeira be caused by the earthquake at that
place, because      did not happen till above two hours after whence
                                                                                it
              it it                                            ;                is
manifest, that     must have been owing to the continuation of motion pro
                                                                  a
pagated from the place, where the earthquake exerted its first efforts. And
we may observe, in general, that this must always be the case, whenever the
retreat does not happen till some considerable time after the earthquake.

330    Conjectures concerning the Cause, and Observations
first, but by the great extension of the heated matter, yet, after
they have once taken place, they may well continue to do so for
some time ; for the great disturbance in the first instance, by
the falling in of a great part of the roof, must render the fre
quent communication between the fire and water not only very
easy, but almost unavoidable : and this will continue to be so,
till the roof is well settled, and the surface of the melted matter
sufficiently cooled, after which, it may require a long time for
the fire to heat it again so much, as will be necessary to make it
produce the former effects.      Now, as the matter has been more
 or less cooled, or as the combustible materials are with more or
less difficulty set on fire again, as well as on account of other
 circumstances, the returns of these effects will be later or earlier j
but though they will not, for this reason, observe any exact pe
 riod, yet they will generally fall within some sort of limits, till
 either the matter that occasions them is consumed, (which, pro
 bably, will seldom happen in less than many ages,) or till the fires
 open themselves a passage, and become volcanos.
     Section IV. — 77. I have already intimated, that the most
 extensive earthquakes frequently take their rise from the sea.
 According to the description of the structure * of the earth be
 fore given, any combustible stratum must lie at greater depths
 in places under the ocean, than elsewhere ; hence far more ex
 tensive fires may subsist there, than where the quantity of mat
 ter over them is less ; for any vapour raised from such fires,
 having both a stronger roof over it, and being pressed by a
 greater weight, (beside the additional weight of the water) will
  not only be less at liberty to expand itself, and consequently of
 less bulk, but it will also be easily driven away towards the parts
  round about, where the superincumbent matter is less, and there
  fore lighter.   On the other hand, any vapour raised from fires,
  where the superincumbent matter is lighter, finding a weaker roof
  over it, and being not so easily driven away under strata, that are
  thicker and heavier, will be very apt to break through, and open
  a mouth to a volcano    ; and    must necessarily do this long be
                                  it
  fore the fires can have spread themselves sufficiently, to be near
  equal to those which may subsist in places that lie deeper.       All
  this seems to be greatly confirmed        by
                                            the situation of volcanos,
  which are almost always found on the tops of mountains             f,
                                                                   and
  those often some of the highest in the world.
                                                                      78.    If,
   *  See ait. 43.
 f    Perhaps this may supply us with hint (if the conjecture
                                       a                       is  not thought
 extravagant) concerning the manner in which these mountains have been
 raised, and why the strata lie generally more inclining from the mountainous
 countries, than those countries themselves; an appearance not easily to be
 accounted for, but upon the supposition, that the upper parts of the earth
                                                     1
                                                                            rest

                                                 I
                    upon the Phenomena,               of Earthquakes.                         331
   78.        If,
            then, the largest fires are to be supposed to subsist
under the ocean,           no wonder that the most extensive earth
                          it   is
quakes should take their rise from thence        the great earthquake
                                                                :
of Lisbon has been shown to have done so* and that the cause         ;
of was also at a greater depth, than that of many others, ap
  it
pears from the greater velocity with which         was propagated   it                        f.
   79. The great earthquake that destroyed Lima and Callao in
1746, seems also to have come from the sea; for several of the
ports upon the coast were overwhelmed                               by
                                                    great wave, which    a
did not arrive till four or five minutes after the earthquake began,
and which was preceded                 by
                                 a retreat of the waters      as well as          \,
that at Lisbon. Against this,          may, perhaps, be alleged, that
                                            it
there were four volcanos broke out suddenly        in the neighbouring
                                                                    §,
mountains, when this earthquake happened, and that the fires
of these might be the occasion of it. This however, think,                             1        is
not very probable       for, to omit the argument of the wave, and
                          ;
previous retreat of the waters, already mentioned,              not very          it   is
likely, that more than one fire was concerned: besides, the va
pour, opening itself       passage at £hese places, could not well be
                               a                                                                      •
                  took   its rise from thence, to spread itself farj
                    if
supposed,           it
especially towards the sea, where           manifest, that the strata
                                                     it   is
over  it were of great thickness, as appears from the great velo
city with which the earthquake was propagated there the shocks                    :
also continued with equal, or nearly equal violence, for some
months after the openings were made; whereas,                these fires          if
had been   the cause of them, they must immediately have ceased,
upon the fires finding       vent, as
                                   a    has happened in other cases
                                             it                                                 ||.
It    therefore much more probable, that a very large quantity
     is
of vapour, taking its rise from some far more extensive fire un
der the sea, spread itself from thence      and as     passed in places,
                                                          ;              it
where the roof over          was naturally much thinner, as well as
                                it
greatly weakened           by
                          the undermining of these fires,        opened                it
itself passage, and burst forth.
          a
rest upon mutter, in some degree, though not perfectly fluid, and that this
matter     lighter than the earth that rests upon it. This conjecture, how
          is
ever, will probably be thought less strange,      be considered, that the new
                                                          if   it
islands, formed about Santerini and the Azores, have some of them been
raised from 200 to 300 yards, and upwards; a -height which might well
enough intitle them to the denomination of mountains,    they had been raised
                                                                         if
from lands not lying under the ocean. [See fig. 3.]            * See art. 54.
 See also art. 94 to 97 inclusive.             See the note to art. 63.
                                                     f
J    Both the wave and previous retreat have been observed in the other
great earthquakes, which have happened at Lima, and in the neighbouring
country.     See d'UUoa's Voyage to Peru, part ii. book   chap.              i.        7-
 §   If these volcanos were not new ones, but only old ones which broke out
afresh, [see the note to art. 34.] the argument will come with still greater
force.              See art. 28.
                     ||
                                                                                            80. As

332         Conjectures concerning the Cause, and Observations
    80. As the most extensive earthquakes generally proceed from
 the lowest countries, but especially from the sea, so those of a
smaller extent are generally found amojigst the mountains : hence
it almost always happens, that earthquakes, which are felt near
 the sea, if at all violent, are felt also in the higher lands ; whereas
 there are many amongst the hills, and those very violent ones,
 which never extend themselves to the lower countries.             Thus
 we are told, that, at Jamaica, " shakes* often happen in the coun
try, not felt at Port-Royal ; and sometimes are felt by those that
live in and at the foot of the mountains, and by no body else."
On the other hand, the earthquake that destroyed Port-Royal
extended itself all over the island : and the same was observed of
a smaller earthquake, that happened there in 16S7-8; which
latter undoubtedly came from the sea, as appears by Sir Hans
Sloane's account of it f.            /
    81. Earthquakes of small extent are also very common amongst
the mountains of Peru and Chili. Antonio d'Ulloa saySj "Whilst
 we were preparing for our departure from the mountain Chichi-
 Choco, there was an earthquake which was felt four leagues
round about : our field tent was tossed to and fro by         it,and the
earth had a motion like that of waves; this earthquake, how
ever, was one of the smallest, that commonly happen                 that
                                                                     in
 country."     The same author tells us, in another place, that,
"   during his stay at the city of Quito, or in the neighbourhood
 of   it,there were two earthquakes, violent enough to overturn
some houses in the country, which buried several persons under
their ruins."
    Section V. — 82.      Itgenerally found, that earthquakes in
                               is
hilly countries, are much more violent than those which happen
elsewhere; and this     observed to be the case, as well when they
                         is
take their rise from the lower countries, as amongst the hills
themselves.     This appearance being so easily to be accounted
for, from the structure of the earth already described,        shallI
content myself with establishing the certainty of       fact, which
                                                         a
tends so greatly to confirm it.
    83. The earthquakes that have infested some of the towns in
the neighbourhood of Quito, have not only been incomparably
more violent than that which destroyed Lisbon, but they seem to
have exceeded that also which destroyed Lima and Callao.         In
  * This taken from an account of the earthquake that happened at Ja
             is
maica in the year 1692, which, as well as some others before mentioned,
was attended with the wave and previous retreat.        See Philos. Trans.
No. 209, or Lowthorp's Abr. vol. ii. p. 417 and 418.
t    See Phil. Trans. No. 209, or Lowthorp's Abr. vol. ii.
                                                         p. 410.
                                                                    Lisbon,

                    upon the Phcenomena,       of Earthquakes.               333
Lisbon *, many of the houses were left standing, although few of
them were less than four or five stories high. At Lima also, it
is only said, that " all the buildings, great and small, or at least
the greatest part of them, were destroyed."         Callao likewise, as
it appears from the accounts we have of            it,
                                                  had many houses left
unhurt         by
            the earthquake, till the wave came, which overwhelmed
the whole town, and threw down every thing that lay in its way.
All these effects seem to be greatly short of those produced                  by
an earthquake that happened at Latacunga, in the year 1698,
when the whole town, consisting of more than six hundred houses,
was entirely destroyed in less than three minutes time,          part of
                                                                    a
one only escaping      notwithstanding
                        ;                  that  the houses   there  are
never built more than one story high, in order,             possible, to
                                                              if
avoid these dangers.     Ambato, a village about the same size as
Latacunga, together with         great part of' Riobamba, another
                                  a
town      the same neighbourhood, were also entirely destroyed
          in                                                                  by
the same earthquake, and some others were either destroyed, or
received considerable damage from it.         At the same time, vol      a
cano burst out suddenly in the neighbouring mountain of Car-
guayraso, as before-mentioned         and, " near Ambato, the earth
                                      ;
opened itself in several places, and there yet remains, to the south
of that town,    cleft of four or five feet broad, and about
                    a                                            league
                                                                    a
in length, lying north and south there are also several other
                                           ;
like clefts on the other side of the river." The city of Quito               f
was affected at the same time, but received no damage, though
it   no more than forty-two geographical miles from Latacunga,
     is
not far from whence the greatest violence of the shock seems to
have exerted itself.    These towns are supposed to stand            far by
the highest of any in the world, being as high above the level of
the sea, as the tops of some of the highest mountains in Europe;
and the ground upon which Riobamba stands, wants but ninety
yards     of being three times as high as Snowdon, the highest
          %
mountain in Wales.
   84. The country upon which these towns stand, serves as                    a
base, from whence arise another set of high lands and mountains,
which are much the highest in the known world. Amongst these
mountains there are no less than six volcanos,       not more, within
                                                         if
an extent of 120 miles long, and less than thirty broad, the
                                                       said, " of the dwelling-
   * See Phil. Trans, vol. xlix.
                                  p. 403, where
                                                  it
                                                  is
houses, there might be about one-fourth of them that tumbled."
f     The city of Quito stands lower than the level of Riobamba, by about
500 yards perpendicular.      Though  it escaped this,   ithas lately, however,
been destroyed by another violent earthquake, that happened on the 28th
April 1/56, of which have not yet seen any other particulars worth notice.
                        I
  X   This according to Antonio d'Ulloa's account but Mons. Condamine
               is                                    ;
makes      exactly three times the height of Snowdon, computing
          it                                                        it  at 1770
toises.   [See his measure of degree of the meridian.]
                              a
                                                                         lowest

334       Conjectures concerning the Cause, and Observations
 lowest of which exceeds the height of Riobaniba by above two-
thirds of a mile, and the highest by more than twice that quan
tity. Now, as the earthquakes have been more violent at the
foot of these mountains, than in the lower lands, so they have
been still more violent towards the tops of them : this is sufficiently
 manifest, from the many rents made in them and the rocks *,
that have been broken off from them, upon such occasions : but
it appears still more manifestly, and beyond all dispute, in the
 bursting forth of volcanos, which are almost always at the very
 summit of the mountains t, where they are found.             In these in
stances, the earth, stones, &c. which lay over the fire, are ge
 nerally scattered by the violence of the vapour, that breaks its
way through, to the distance of some miles round about.
    85. The great earthquake of the 1st of November 1755, was
 also more violent amongst the mountains, than at the city of
 Lisbon. We are told, that " the mountains of Arrabida, Estrella,
Julio, Marvan, and Cintra, being some of the largest in Portu
gal, were impetuously shaken, as it were, from their very foun
dations ; and most of them opened at their summits, split and
rent in a wonderful manner, and huge masses of them were
thrown down into the subjacent valleys J."
    86. The same was observed at Jamaica likewise. In, the earth
quake that destroyed Port-Royal in 1 692,we are told, that
                                                                   " more
houses were left standing at that town than in all the island be
sides.      It was so violent in other places, that people were vio
lently thrown down on the ground, where they lay with their
legs and arms spread out, to prevent being tumbled about by the
incredible motion of the earth.          It scarce left a planter's house
or sugar-work standing all over the island: I think it left not a
house standing at Passage Fort, and but one in all Liganee, and
none in St. Iago, exeept a few low houses, built by the wary Spa
niards.      In Clarendon precinct, the earth gaped, and spouted up,
with a prodigious force, great quantities of water into the air,
twelve miles from the sea ; and all over the island, there were
abundance of openings of the earth, many thousands.                But in
the mountains, are said to be the most violent shakes of all ; and
it is a generally received opinion, that the nearer to the moun
tains, the greater the shake; and that the cause thereof, what
ever it is, lies there.       Indeed they are strangely torn and rent,
especially    the  blue,  and   other highest mountains, which seem to
be the greatest sufferers, and which, during the time that the
   *  See d'Ulloa's Voyage to Peru, part i. book vi. chap. 2.
   f  The only exceptions that I know of to this rule, are in those cases,
where the highest part having an opening already, some fresh mouth opens
itself in the side of the mountain.
   t See Hist, and 1'hilos. of Earthq. p. 317-
                                                                     great

               upon the Pkcenomena,        of Earthquakes.              335
  great shakes continued, bellowed out prodigious loud noises and
  echoings.
      87. "Not far from Yallowes, a mountain, after having made
  several moves, overwhelmed a whole family, and a great part of
  a plantation, lying a mile off ; and a large high mountain near
  Portmorant, near a day's journey over, is said to be quite swal
  lowed up.
      88. " In the blue mountains, from whence came those dread
  ful roarings, may reasonably be supposed to be many strange al
  terations of the like nature ; but those wild desert places being very
  rarely, or never visited by any body, we are yet ignorant of what
  happened there ; but whereas they used to afford a fine green
  prospect, now one half part of them, at least, seem to be wholly
  deprived of their natural verdure*."
      Section VI. — 89. I have supposed, that fires lying at the
  greatest depths generally produce the most extensive earthquakes.
  We must, however, except from this rule those cases where the
   depths are very great: for, as the weight of three miles perpen
   dicular of common earth is capable of absolutely repressing the
-
   vapour of inflamed gunpowder, so we may well suppose, that
  there may be a quantity of earth sufficient to repress the vapour
   of water, and keep it within its original limits, though ever so
   much heated.      Now, whenever this is the case, it is manifest,
   that it can produce no effect: or, it may happen, that though
   the quantity of earth may not be sufficient absolutely to repress
   the vapour, yet it may be so great, as to suffer it to expand but
   very little: in this case, an earthquake arising from it would he
   but of small extent ; the wave-like motion would be little or none ;
   the vibratory motion would be felt every where ; and the propa
   gation of the motion would be very quick. This last circumstance
   being almost the only one, by which these earthquakes can be
   known from those which owe their prigin to shallower fires, it
   must be very difficult to distinguish them with certainty, as it is
   almost impossible to distinguish the difference of the time of their
   happening in different places, when the whole, perhaps, is com-
   *   See Philos. Trans. No. 209 ; or Lowthorp's Abridg. vol. ii. p. 416, &c.
 where there is a great deal more to the same purpose.      See also Hist, and
 Philos. of Earthq. p. 286 and 287.
    From the authorities quoted in this section, it appears, how little reason
 there 'u for the notion, that either large cities, or towns situated near the
 sea-coast, are more subject to violent earthquakes than others : it is not,
 however, much to be wondered at, that such a notion should have prevailed,
 alter the great destruction that happened in so large and populous a city as
 Lisbon ; >ince the demolition of a few ruinous houses only, in such a place,
 would have affected the imaginations of .men more, and would have been
 more taiked of, than the subversion of whole mountains in some wild and
 desert country, where at most half a dozen unknown shepherds might feel
 the effects ofit, or perhaps only see
                                     it  at
                                          a   distance.
                                                                 prehended

 336      Conjectures concerning the Cause, and Observations
 prehended within the space of two or three minutes ; possibly,
 however, some of the earthquakes, which we have had in Eng
 land, may have been of this class.
    Section VII. — 90. If we would inquire into the place of the
 origin of any particular earthquake, we have the following grounds
 to go upon.
    91. First, The different directions, in which it arrives at se
 veral distant places : if lines be drawn in these directions, the
 place of their common intersection must be nearly the place
 sought: but this is liable to great difficulties; for there must
 necessarily be great uncertainty in observations, which cannot, at
 best, be made with any great precision, and which are generally
 made by minds too little at ease to be nice observers of what
 passes ; moreover, the directions themselves may be somewhat
 varied, by the inequalities in the weight of the superincumbent
 matter, under which the vapour passes, as well as by other
 causes.                                                 <
    92. Secondly, We may form some judgement concerning the
place of the origin of a particular earthquake, from the time of
its arrival' at different places ; but this also is liable to great dif
ficulties.    In both these methods, however, we may come to a
 much greater degree of exactness, by taking a medium amongst a
variety of accounts, as they are related by different observers. But,
    93. Thirdly, We may come to the greatest degree of exact
ness in those cases, where earthquakes have their source from
under the ocean ; for, in these instances, the proportional di
stance of different places from that source may be very nearly
ascertained, by the interval between the earthquake and the suc
ceeding wave: and this is the more to be depended on, as peo
ple are much less likely to be mistaken in determining the time
between two events, which follow one another at a small interval,
than in observing the precise time of the happening of some
single event.
    94. Let us now, by way of example, endeavour to inquire into
the situation of the cause, that gave rise to the earthquake of
the 1st of November 1755, the place of which seems to have been
under the ocean, somewhere between the latitudes of Lisbon and
Oporto, (though probably somewhat nearer to the former) and at
the distance, perhaps, of ten or fifteen leagues from the coast. For,
    95. First, The direction, in which the earthquake arrived at
Lisbon, was from the north-west ; at Madeira it came from the
north-east; and in England it came from the south-west ; all of
which perfectly agree with the place assumed* .
                                                                    96. Se-
   * All these directions together with the times when the earthquake,      as
•well a3 the succeeding wave, arrived at different places, (two or three only
                                                                    excepted)

                   upon the Phcenomena,       of Earthquakes.            337
    96. Secondly, The times in which the earthquake arrived at
different places, agree perfectly well also with the same point.
And,
    97. Thirdly, The interval between these, and the time of the
arrival of the subsequent wave, concur in confirming it. That
all this might appear the better, I have subjoined the following
table, assuming the point, from whence I compute, at the distance
of about a degree of a great circle from Lisbon, and a degree and
half from Oporto. In consequence of this supposition, I have
added three minutes to the interval between the time when the
shock was felt at Lisbon, and at the several other places.               The
first column in the table contains the names of places; the se
cond, the distances from the assumed point, reckoned in half
degrees ; the third, the time that the earthquake took up in tra
velling to each, expressed in minutes ; and the fourth contains
the time in which the wave was propagated, from its source to
the respective places, expressed in minutes likewise.
                                       Halfdeg.    Min.      Min.
                                           2         3        12
                                           3         5
                                           6                 53
                                            9       12       82
                                            9       11
                                          11        18
                                          19       25       152
                                          20                267
                                          21                360
                Portsmouth      ....      23       29
                                          23                290
                                          24                530
                                          30       32
                Lochne.ss                 33       66
                                          98                565
                                         101                485
                                                                      98. In
excepted) are taken from the 49th volume of the Philos. Trans, and the
 Hist, and Philos. of Earthq. To these I must refer the reader for the par
 ticular authorities, which, as they are very numerous, I was not willing to
 quote at length.
    * It appears, by all the accounts, that the interval between the earth
 quake and wave, either at Oporto or Lisbon, was not long : I have met with
 no account yet, however, which tells us how long it was at the former, and
 only one which mentions it at the latter, where it is said to have been nine
 minutes.    [See Memoires mr les Tremblemeiis tie Terre, p. 245, compared
 with Hist, of Earthquakes, p. 315.]    These intervals, if we knew them ex-
     Vol. 52. No. 247. Nov. 1818.                     Y                 actly,

338     Conjectures concerning the Cause, and Observations
   98. In computing the times in the preceding table, allowance
was made for the difference of longitude, as it is laid down in the
common maps, which are not always greatly to be depended
on.    The times themselves also are often so carelessly observed,
as well as vaguely related, that they are many of them subject to
considerable errors ; the concurrent testimonies, however, are so
many, that there can be no doubt about the main point; and,
that the errors might be as small as possible, I have not only en
deavoured to select those accounts that had the greatest appear
ance of accuracy, but, in all cases where it was to be had, 1 have
always taken a mean amongst them.               In many of the accounts,
the relaters say only between such hours, or about such an hour :
of this kind were the accounts of the times of the agitation of
the waters at the Hague and Lochness, which vary the most from
a medium of the rest, the former erring about seven minutes in
defect, and the latter about twenty minutes in excess : with re
gard to the latter, however, I must observe, that, from the ac
count itself, it is probable the agitation happened sooner than
eleven o'clock, which is the time mentioned.             The accounts also
of the time of the agitation of the waters in the northern parts
of England, seem to confirm the same thing*.
    99. It is observable, in the preceding table, that the times,
which the wave took up in travelling, are not in the same pro
portion with the distances of the respective places from the sup
posed source of the motion : this, however, is no objection against
the point assumed, since it is manifest, wherever it was, that it
could not be far from Lisbon, as well because the wave arrived
there so very soon after the earthquake, as because it was so
great, rising, as we are told, at the distance of three miles from
Lisbon, to the height of fifty or sixty feet. The true reason of
this disproportion seems to be the difference in the depth of the
water ; for, in every instance in the above table, the time will be
found to be proportionably shorter or longer, as the water through
actly, might have served, perhaps, to ascertain the distance of those two
places from the original source a little more accurately; but, as the distance
of neither from thence could be very great, a small difference in them would
hardly sensibly affect any of the others ; from which, therefore, we may
draw the same general conclusions, as if thev were exact.
   * As the shortest way that the vapour could pass from near Lisbon to
Lochness was under the ocean, possibly it might, on that account, be some
what retarded ; for the water adding to the weight of the superincumbent
mass, and not to its elasticity, must produce this effect in some degree : it
is probable, however, that this could make no great difference, as the motion
seems to have been very little retarded in its passage from the original
source to Madeira, to which place, I suppose, it must have passed under
deeper seas than would be found in its road to Scotland.
                                                                       which

                      upon the Phenomena,   of Earthquakes.                  339
which the wave passed was deeper or shallower*. Thus the
motion of the wave to Kingsale or Mountsbay (through waters
not deeper in general than 200 fathoms) was slower than that to
Madeira, (where the waters are much deeper,) in the proportion
of about three to five ; and it was slower than that to Barbadoes,
                                                              Atlantic
(where its course lay through the deepest part of the
ocean) nearly  in the  proportion   of one to three :  so likewise the
motion of it from the Scilly   islands  to Swansea  in  Wales   (where
the depth gradually diminishes from about sixty or seventy fa.-
thoms to a very small matter) was still slower than that to King-
sale, in the proportion of less than one to three : the same thing
 is observable with regard to Plymouth also,where the wave arrived
about ninety minutes later than at Mountsbay, though the dif
ference of their distance from the first source could not, upon any
supposition, be more than forty or fifty miles.
    Section VIII. — 100. If we would inquire into the depth, at
which the cause lies, that occasions any particular earthquake, I
know of no method of determining            it,
                                           which does not require ob
servations not yet to be had       but
                                   ;     such could he procured, and
                                           if
they were made with sufficient accuracy,           think some kind of
                                                          I
guess might be formed concerning            for,
                                            it
                                            :
    101. First, In those instances, where the vapour discharges
itself at the mouths of volcanos, (as in the ease             of
                                                         the earthquake
at Lima,)      might, perhaps, be possible for
                 it                                 careful observer to--
                                                          a
trace the thickness of the several strata     from thence to the place
                                                f
where the earthquake took its rise,     or at least as far as the shore,
ifit  took its rise from under the sea.     If this could be once done
in any one instance, and the velocity of such an earthquake
nicely determined, we might then guess at the depth of the cause
in other earthquakes, where we knew their velocity,               takingby
the depths^ proportional to those velocities, which probably
would answer very nearly.
     102. Secondly,          If,
                           in any instance,      should be possible to
                                                     it
know how much the motion of any earthquake was retarded by
passing under the ocean, the depth of the ocean being known,
the depth at which the vapour passed would be known also for                 ;
 the velocity under the water would be to the velocity,            thereif
had been no water,      in  the subduplicate   ratio  of  the  weight in
     * We have an instance to this purpose in the tides, which, in
                                                               deep waters,
move with a velocity that would carry them round the whole earth hi     sin  a
gle day but as they get into shallower waters, they are greatly retarded
            ;                                                                     :
and we are told, that in the river of Amazons, the same tide     found run
                                                                   is
ning up to the tenth or twelfth day, before     entirely spent. [See Con-
                                                it   is
damine's Voyage down the Maranon.]
      This upon the supposition, that the under strata, in ascending up the
     •f-        is
hills, come to the day in the manner before described. See art. 43, and
fig.   3.             See the note to art. 63.
                         J
                                   Y   2                                         the

340 Conjectures concerning the Cause
                                                   of Earthquakes, &c.
*he latter case to the weight in the former : hence allowing earth
rto be about two and half times the weight of water, the
                                                             depth
 will be readily found.
    J 03. Thirdly, Let us conceive the earth to be formed accord
mg to the idea before given of       it,
                                       and that the same strata are at
a  medium of the same thickness for a very great extent, as well
in those places, where several of the upper ones are wanting, as
where they are not.       Upon this supposition, we may discover the
depth, at which the vapour passes,            by
                                            comparing the several ve
locities of the same earthquake in places where the thicknesses*
of the superincumbent mass are different.             must be acknow
                                                            It
ledged, indeed, that such observations with regard to time, as
would enable us to determine these velocities, are in general much
too nice to be expected     : the matter, however,        not altogether
                                                                  is
desperate, as we may collect them, in some measure perhaps,
from other circumstances; such, for instance, as the degree of
agitation in different watersf, the proportional suddenness^ with
which the earth     islifted in different places, &c.
    104. As the observations relating to the earthquake of the 1st
of November 1755 are too gross,          would be in vain to attempt,
                                         it
by   any of the foregoing methods, to determine with any cer
tainty the depth at which the cause of               but,      might beif
                                                     it,
                                               lay
                                                  it I it
                                                            ;           I
allowed to form     random guess about
                    a                            should suppose, (upon
a  comparison of all circumstances,) that       could not be much less
than a mile, or     mile and half, and think
                    a                         I        probable,
                                                            it   is  did         it
not exceed three miles.
    Conclusion.- — 105. Thus have eudeavoured to show how the
                                         I
principal phaenomena of earthquakes may be produced,     cause              by
                                                                                          '
                                                                             a
                                                                                          '
with which none, that have seen, appear to me to be incom-
                           I
patible.   As   have not knowingly misrepresented any fact, so
              I I
neither have designedly omitted any that appeared to affect the
main question   but, that
                ;            might not unnecessarily swell what
                                I
had already much exceeded the limits at first intended for                        it, I
have omitted,
   106. First, Those minuter appearances, which almost every
reader would easily account for, from what has been said already,
and which did not seem to lead to any thing further: such, for
   • In order to know this difference, will be necessary to trace the thick
                                     it
ness of those strata, which are found in some of the places, but are wanting
in others.          f  See art. 71 and 72.
    X This may be known from the distance to which the mercury subsides in
the barometer, upon the first raising of the earth by the vapour.      don't I
find that this phaenomenon, which   is   a common attendant on earthquakes,
was observed any-where, at the time of the earthquake of the 1st of Novem
ber 1755, except at Amsterdam, where the mercury subsided more than an
inch.   See Hist, and Philos. of Earthq. p. 309.
                                                                            instance,

Account    of certam   Improvements in Involution and Evolution .34      1
instauce, are the sudden stopping and gushing out of fountains,
 occasioned by the opening or contracting of fissures ; the dizzi
ness and sickness people feel, from the almost imperceptible wave
like motion, &c.
     107. Second hj, Those appearances which seemed to depend
                                                                unless we
upon particular circumstances, and of which therefore,
 had a more exact knowledge of the countries            where  they hap
 pened, it would have been impossible to give any account,
                                                                    with
 out having recourse to uncertain conjectures ; of this kind was
 the greater agitation of the waters in the lakes of Switzerland,
 at the time of the earthquake of the 1st of November 1755, than
 during the earthquake of the 9th of December following*, though
 the houses upon the borders of them were more violently shaken,
 by the latter. And,
     108. Lastly, Those appearances, which only seem to have ail-
 accidental connection with earthquakes, or the causes of them ; of
this kind, are the effects which, in some instances perhaps, they
 produce on the weather ; the distempers which are sometimes
 said to succeed them ; the disturbance which, we are told, they
have sometimes occasioned, during the shocks, in the direction of
 the magnetic needle, &c. none of which are observed to be con
 stant attendants on earthquakes, nor do they seem materially to
 affect the solution given either one way or other.
 LV. Account vf certain      Improvements     in Involution and Evolu
                  tion.   By Mr. Peter Nicholson.
                              INVOLUTION.
X have not observed in any of our treatises on Algebra, any
general form for the expansion of (a-\-b + c + d+e + &c.)n, ex
cept that which would result from the theorem of Demoivre :
but as this is capable of a more simple form, which does not in
volve the combinations of the quantities, and on which the ex
traction of roots in numbers entirely depends, 1 shall here ex
hibit it thus:
    (a + b+c+d+e + &c.)n = a"
(2) ,+   \na»-n+ n-^a»~*b*+            ^^V-=W +
                  1.2.3.4
                                    T«.v. j
(3) , +  { n(a + *)-*•+             +  tjr** +—~- (a + i)""3
             c>+&o.|
    *  See Monsieur Bertrand's Memolres sur les Tremblement de Tetre.
                                  Y3                                  (4),

342                  Account             of certain       Improvements
(4) ,+     {n(a+l+c)^d+n^(a+b                                + cy^d1 +
                                                                         n-^^
              (a+i+c)n-*#+&c.                        }
(5) ,+     \n(a + b + c + d)^1e+"-^-(a+b                         + c + d)'>-*e'+
              "-^—^(a
                 '
                      + b+ c+
                              d^e^+^c.]
                     :
(6) , + &c.
                          Demonstration.
     Calli ng each               within each two braces a term,
                         series inclosed
an being the first term : — I observe that the first and second
terms are equal to the expansion of (a + b)n ; that the third term
is the expansion of [(a + b) +c]n considered as a binomial want
ing the first term (a+b)n ; that the fourth term is the expansion
of [(a+b + c)+d]n wanting the first term (a + b + c)n , and so
on   :   therefore the whole expanded series is equal to
         (a+b)" +        <
                             (a +    b+c)" -{a+b)n\ + \ (a+b+c+d)n —
(a + b+c)n] + j (a + b + c + d+e)n— (a + b+'c +       ] +&c.=            df
(a + b + c + d+e + &c.)n
And thus we have another general rule for raising any number
to the wth power, besides that of multiplying the number con
tinually by itself («— 1) times.
   1 shall here present the reader with a numerical example or
two in involution, in order to explain the nature of evolution :
                           '
for this purpose we have
      (37658)" = (30000+7000       600+50 + 8)"     -i-
therefore (37658)" = (30000)" &c.
+ {w(30000)«-1(700e)+^=-1(30000)"-2(7000)8+&c.                                         j
+    {   «(37000)"-1(600)             +             (37000)*-2(600)* + &c.         }
+                                    +                                   &c.
     Jw(37600)«-1(50)                    '^=l(37600)«-2(50)*+                  }
+ {w(37650)"-1(S) + ^=i (3765 0)^(8) + &c.
                                                                  1
                                                                         J
     Or universally thus         :
     Since any scale of numbers may be generally represented                               by
axm + bxl"*— + cxv*-2 +
                1                        .
                                         .   .   + kx-\-l we shall have
         (axm +£x»:—
                             1
                                 +  cxm—2+                 -\-kx + l)n —{axm)n
+ \n(ax^y>~\bx^1)+'^(axm)n-\bxm^1)t+&ic.                                           \.
                                                                                           +

                    in Involution and Evolution.                      343
+                                                                 +
    I n[[axm) +{lxm-})J-\cx^)+n^[{axm)
                                       *          + &c- for the expansion
            (bx™-1) ]"-2(cxm-2) + &c. \
of any power of a number, according to any scale of notation.
    But perhaps it will be more useful to descend to some parti
cular instances by which the method and principle may be seen
to advantage. Therefore let a+b + c+d+e+&ic. be raised to the
cube; then will (a+b + c+d+e)* = a} +           1
                                                  3a*£+3a£1+fl3
                                                                    }
 +
     |3(a+£)9c+3(a+6)c*+c'          }
                                       +  \3{a+l+cyd+S[a + l+c)
              d*+d<]
                                  l
 + | 3(a+l+c+d)*e+3(a + + c+d)e* + ei,
    Or, because that in any term the members constituting that
term have a common factor, the same may be exhibited thus:
 (a+b+c+d+ey=a^ + b[3a1+3ab+b,')i +c[3(a + by +
            3(a + £)c+c*}
 +d \ 3(a+b+c)l+3(a+b+c)d+d1^ +e(3(a+b+c+d)°- +
            3(a+b+c+d) e+e1}
    Let it now  be required to find the cube of the number         5436.
Here a=5000,      a + £ = 5400, a-}-fl+c=5430, and a + b +        c+d=
5436; consequently      £ = 400, c=30, and d=6.
             Operation  by the method here demonstrated,
                                  a! = 125000000000
                             (3a*b= 30000000000^)
                        lst,< 3ab*=         2400000000     V
                     -
                             t_..£3 =         64000000    J
                       (3(a + b)*c=
                  2dA 3(a + £)c1 =
                                            2624400000^
                                                           I
                                                          J
                                               14580000
                       (.        .c' =             27000
                   (3(a+b+cyd=
               3d,\ 3(a+b + c)d*=
                                             530728200")
                                                  586440   I
                   L              d?=                216j
                                         1 6063432  rS56~
    The number of figures in this operation may be considerably
lessened by considering that the first period would be the same as
if it consisted only of 54 = 50+4 ; and the second period as if it
consisted of 543 = 540+3 ; and the third period as if it consisted
of 5436 = 5430 + 6. Therefore the operation in this form is
                                      Y4                              a}-

344               Account of certain Improvements
                                      «i  = 125
                               t'3a*b = "30000
                                  3ab*= 2400
                                     .6' =          64
                          3{a +   byc-          2624400
                          3{a + b)c'-=              14580
                      {           ..c'=                 27
                     3(a+5+c)*rf=                  530728200
                     3(a +    i+c)^=                   586440
                            .    ..   d*  =                216
                                            160634321866
   The foregoing operations now exhibited, require several minor
operations which are omitted. However, these operations will not
be necessary in the following form, where it may be considered
that in the first period a=50 and fl=4 ; in the second period
(a+b) = 540 and c=3; and in the third period (a + & + c) as 5430
and  d=6.     Here follows the operation             :
                                -3a1 =7500
                        I sttA 3ab
                              A   3ab= = 600
                               L.b      =       16
                                          i_
                                           8116 = 6
                       f3(a + i)J=874806"
                  2d,<3(a+b)c=                4860
                       (.....       c*=             9
                                         _879669_=D
                   '3(a + b+cy =88454700
                  r3(a-
             3dA
               -lA 3{a
                    3{u-+ b + c)d=              97740
                                  d*   =             36
                                          88552476 =       D
                      a' =125...
                  4 x D' = 32464            . .  .
                 3  x D" =          2639007 . . .
                  6 x D"' =           531314856
                          .     160634321 856 =(5436)9
   It is evident that,   3(a +      b  + c + &c.)* = 3 (a + b + &c.)1 +'
2,3(a + fl + &c.)c+3cI for the square of a+b+c &c, consists of
the squares of each quantity, and twice the sum of the products
of every two; this square being multiplied by 3, will give three
times the square of each letter, and six times the product of every
two.     Again: the square of a + fl+&c. with one letter less, con
tains the squares of all the letters, except the one omitted ; and
twice their products,except those of the letter omitted : therefore
when multiplied by 3, will contain the square of each letter three
                                                                  times,

                     in Involution and Evolution.                 345
 times, except the one omitted, and six times the product of every
two, except with the one omitted. Again: six times (a + b+8nc.)c
contains six times the sum of the products of each letter, with the
 last letter which was before omitted ; and three times the square
 of the last letter makes the second side equal to the first. Thus,
suppose only three letters concerned, then 3 {a + b+c)1 = 3a1 +
3il+3cl+6(a6-f- ac+bc)~3(a+b)1 + 2-3(a + b)c+3c* = 3(a»+
2ab+b*)+ Gac+Gbc+Sc1 = 3a1+3b*+3c1+§{ab + ac + bc) as
 before.
     Now as the first period consists of three times the square of the
 first left-hand figure of the number to be squared with a cipher
 annexed placed in the first row, the product of the left-hand
figure and annexed cipher, into the second figure of the number
to be squared placed in the second row, and the square of the se
 cond figure placed in the third row :
     And in general as the nth period consists of three times the
 square of the first or left-hand n figures to be squared with a
 cipher annexed placed in the first row ; the product of the n
figures with the cipher annexed, into the (« + l)th figure of the
 number to be squared placed in the second row, and the square
of the said («+ l)th figure placed in the third row :
     Therefore in the («+ l)th period, instead of taking three times-
 the square of the number consisting of n+1 of the first figures-
of the number to be squared with a cipher annexed, for the num
 ber to be placed in the first row ; we shall find this first row of
the (72+ l)th period, by adding each figure in the lowest or third
 row of the nth period, three times each figure in the second row
of the nth period twice, and each figure in the first row of the
 nth period once.
     The third or last row is only a mental operation ; the middle
row is easily found by multiplying first by the digit 3, and the
 new figure.
     It is not meant that the method now shown for cubing a num
ber should supersede the common method ; but the principal use
is to explain the reverse operation of extracting the cube root in
numbers.        It may also serve as a method of proof to that com
monly used for raising powers.        For it is of some advantage to
have two different methods of performing every arithmetical ope
 ration, that the one may furnish a cheek to the other.
                              EVOLUTION.
                                 Problem.
     To   find a number of which its cube shall be the nearest less
number to a proposed number; — Or, as commonly expressed, to
find the cube root of a proposed number.
                                                                Rule.

346              Account        of certain Improvements
                                 Rule.
   Divide the proposed number into as many periods as possible,
consisting of three figures each,proceeding from right to left : sub
tract the highest cube that can be taken out of the remaining
figure or figures on the left, placing that cube under those figures,
and the remainder under the cube with a line between them ; to
the remainder annex the next period,which is called the resolvend,
and place the root of the cube taken in the quotient.
   Then any resolvend and the quotient being given, a new figure
of the quotient will be obtained by annexing a cipher to the
quotient figure ; and calling the quotient thus increased, the in
creased quotient.     Subtract the sum of three times the square
of the increased quotient into the new figure, three times the in
creased quotient into the square of the new figure, and the cube
of the new figure from the resolvend, and place the new figure
in the quotient instead of the cipher, and annex the next period
to the remainder for the new resolvend.
    It is obvious that the new figure must be such that the sum
to be subtracted must be as nearly equal as possible, but less than
the given resolvend.
   This rule as generally given in books of arithmetic is far from
being explicit, as they do not show clearly how it is derived from
the polynomial.     In obtaining a new figure in the root, most
authors direct the student to multiply the square of the quotient
by 300, and this again by the new figure : then to multiply the
quotient by 30, and this product by the square of the new figure ;
and lastly, to take the cube of the new figure, and add these three
products together, and subtract as above : but this does not fol
low from the principle, though the effect must be the same.
                                    Example.
   Find   a number whose cube shall be the nearest less number to
160634321856.
                                160<634<321<856(5436
                      a' =      125
                                 35634,   1st resolvend
                     alfl= 30000=3(50)* x 4
                     a£*=         2400=3(50)      x4»
                      fl'   =       64=      ..     4J
                                 32464
                                  3170321,   2dresol.

                     in Involution and Evolution.                                347
                   (fl+&)*c=2624400=3(540)*x3
                   (a + b)c*=         14580 = 3(540)          x3»
                           c>=                       . .         3s
                                          2_7_
                                  2639007
                                  .531314856, 3d resol.
                (a + 1 + cyd=z 530728200 =3 (5430)
                                                                    1
                                                                      x6
                (a+i + c)^=             686440=3(5430)               x6l
                            d>=               216=          ..         6'
                                    531314856
                                                  0
    In this operation, in order to obtain a new figure, the parts
within the parenthesis always represent a number consisting of
one place of figures more than the number of letters ; the first
letter represents the highest place of figures; the second the next
                                                                           a cipher is
highest ; and so on, to the right-hand place, where
 introduced.
    This number is therefore the number formed by the figures in
the root obtained by the preceding periods with a cipher annexed
                                                                                  new
to the right hand ; so that when the cipher is replaced by the
                                                                                 num
figure, the number formed will be the root of
                                                                the proposed
 ber as far as the number          of  periods    that     are   used.     Thus a + b
  = 540 and a+£ + c=5430.
                                                                                     is
     But this operation may be simplified, as in the following,which
                                                       in   the   involution   herein.
 performed according to the last example
     The   method    of pointing     off is  the  same    as before directed; the
                                                          root is expressed in the
  only difference in finding a period of the
  following short
                                                                                sum of
      Rule. — Subtract the product of the new figure into the
  the square of the increased quotient,            the    product     of the increased
              into  the  new    figure,    and   the  square       of the new figure
  quotient
  from the resolvend.
               a* = 7500                                 160<634<321<856(5436
             ah = 600                             a3 =    125
               b1=      16
                   JOfcS                       4xf)=!«4
         (a + i)1 = 874800
        (a + b)c=       4860                                 3170321
                c*=                              3x1) =2639007
                            _?_     „
                     879669    =D
   (a+b+cy =88454700                                     ,„    .53 314856
                                                     xb
   \a+bXc)d=
              V=
                          97740
                            _36
                                                   6
                                                              —
                                                             = 531314846
                                                                             0
                      88552476
                                                                                    The

 34S        Fossil Shells, are all               of Species    now extinct.
    The method of finding the triple square inlhe first row of any
 period independent of an additional operation, vres suggested to
 me hy a Mr. Holdred, who is now about to publish a small tract,
 in which he has shown by an original and ingenious method,
 how the roots of equations as well as the roots of numbers may
 be accurately and easily extracted by one method which is not
 an approximation,   but as direct as the rule for division or those
 employed  in the  extraction of roots can be.    His principle ap
 pears to be new, and it is more general than any thing of the
 kind that has yet appeared in this country.
 LVI. An alphabetical Arrangement of                         the Places   from whence
    Fossil Shells have been obtained by Mr. James Sowbrby,
    and drawn and described in Vol. II. of his "Mineral Con-
    chology," with Hie geographical and stratigrap Ideal Situa
    tions of those Places, the Species and Varieties of Fossil Shells,
    &c. By Mr. John Farey Sen., Mineral Surveyor.
                                      To   Mr.    Tilloch.
SIR,      M R. Sowbrby in June" last completed                         a second volume
of his excellent work, entitled   Mineral Conchology," contain
ing  101 coloured Plates, of  the Shells of formerly existing Fish,
which have been found imbedded in the British Strata, with one
 or two exceptions, as to Shells found near the opposite coast of
 France ; and in which volume he has given the names and de
 scriptions, of 1 84 species of such Fossil Shells, that were widely
 distributed through the British series of Strata ; yet all of them
 prove perf ectly distinct from any Species of the Shells of ana
 logous living Fish, in any known part of the World I which
 last, further confirms, if any confirmation were at this day want
 ing, what that experienced and enlightened naturalist Sir Joseph
 Batiks has, uniformly and for many years past been ofteu heard
 to say, as to every Shell found imbedded in the Strata, which he
 had seen, being of an extinct species !
    Besides the above number of Fossil Shells described and named
in this volume, Mr. Sowerby has therein described 5 Varieties,
of as many species of these Shells, and has distinguished them
by the addition of      fi,
                        after their specific names   in like manner,
                                                                  :
I  have ventured, in    Stratigraphical Index, which have sent to
                        a                                               I
Mr. S. (to be printed and accompany his 2nd volume) affixed
Greek Letters,    /3,y, &c. to distinguish 33 other Varieties of
these Shells, which,          by 8,
                          the Places mentioned, and other circum
stances connected therewith, and mostly also,       what     said and
                                                                  by        is
shown of the Shells themselves, appear to me to be different
Species, and belonging to different Strata, from the Shells and
                                                             Habitats

         Mr.   Arrowsmith's general Index         to   English Maps.        349
   Habitats of the first 184 species, above mentioned ; making in all
  222 different Shells, whose places in Mr. Smith's series of the Strata,
  and their topographicfil situations, are ascertained in this volume.
      While this second volume of Mr. Sowerby's Work has been in
  progress, Mr. Smith has published the first part of his " Strati-
  graphical System," (see P.M. vol. 50. p. 271) describing or men
  tioning 1155 specimens of Fossil Shells, Coralites, &c. found in
  the Strata which over-lie the Lias, at 263 different Places in
  England ; and he has also published, three numbers of his
 "   Strata Identified," containing figures of the most characteristic
  Shells, Coralites, 8*c. in the upper part of the British Series,
  over-lieing the Cornbrash Limestone : I have lately very carefully
  collated these four numbers of Mr. Smith's Works, with the first
  37 numbers of
                   " Mineral Cortchology," and thereby I have been
  sorry to find, that a good many errors, as to the Strata and the
  varieties of Shells, have crept into the Index of Places (that are
  mentioned in Mr. Sowerby's 1st volume,) which is inserted in
  P.M. vol. xlvi. p. 2 1 1 to 224 ; several new Localities of the Shells
  described in the 1st volume, have also been recorded in vol. 2d.
      In order to correct and supply these deficiencies, I have con
  trived, to introduce all the most material of the corrections and
  additions, wanting in the former Index, into the Index of Places*,
'
  with their Strata and Shells, for which now I solicit insertion
  in your Work: nearly all of the remaining errors. in the first
  Index may be corrected, and the Greek Letters added to distin
  guish the varieties of the Shells named, by means of, a List of the
     *  I was in hopes, by some delay in setting about this Index, since Mr.
 Sowerby finished his 2nd Volme, that my labour in hunting through Maps
for the situations of n large portion of the Places mentioned in his and Smith's
 Works, might ere this have been greatly shortened, by a reference to the
 Manuscript Index which my valued Friend, the able and indefatigable Mr.
 Arrowsmith of Soho-square, has for near two years been preparing, and
 which is intended to contain, every Name, of Towns, Villages, Farms and
 Cottages, Mills, Mines, Collieries and Quarries, Rivers, Streams and Water
 falls, Bays, Headlands, Cliffs and Lighthouses, Mountains, Hills and Valleys,
 Parks, Forests and Woods, &c. &c.; together with the District Names, &c.
 which are to be found, not only in his own large and unparalleled Map of
 England and      If
                   ales; but also, in all the largest Cpunty Maps, local Maps of
 Canals, Roads, Mining-Districts,      &c. Sec. which either his own large Col
 lection contains, or to which he can have access, through the kindness of
 the friends of Science : unfortunately however for me, this great Index toLo-
 calities, although all the names from printed Maps were collected out (and
 ascertained by Bearings and Distances), and it is now rapidly proceeding
 towards its final revision and completion, it has not been in a state for me
 to consult it,  as otherwise, the kindness and liberality of Mr. A. would have
 permitted, prior to its publication
                                   ;      which now will soon take place with
                                                                        ;
 the addition, of the population, and a blank column, for future corrections
 and additions, and to enable this volume to be made, by Scientific, Curious,
 or Travelling Persons, into are universal Index to Localities in South Britain
                                                                            !
                                                                        Shells

350                       Localities of Fossil Shells,
Shells and Coralites, which under the same Name, either Mr.
 Sowerhy or Mr. Smith, have referred to more than one Stratum:
which List I shall in a few days transmit to you, for insertion in
your Work, accompanied by some Remarks, on the use and im
portance of the knowledge of Fossil Shells, in conducting Geo
 logical investigations * : it may however be proper here to no
tice the other corrections following, viz. p. 215, dele the 3d line,
beginning with Ditto: — p. 217, p. 20 and 21, for Blue Marl
 above the Lias, read, Green sand: 1. 32, before Terebratula ob-
soleta, insert Ditto, in Clunch Clay lower part: — p. 218, 1. 7 and
 8, after Goat-acre, insert 3| m. NNE of Calne; and dele, under
 the great Bath Oolite: — 1. 10 from bottom, after in, insert Oak-
tree Clay, below, p. 220, under Longleat, insert Pecten quadri-
costata, t. 56, f. 1 and 2 : — 1. 2 and 3 from bottom, dele, or Mel-
burg: — and p. 224, 1. 11, for great, read, under.             I am,
                            Your obedient humble servant,
Hoivland-strect,     Oct. 10, 1818.                    JOHN FAREY Sen.
An     alphabetical List of the Places from whence Fossil Shells
     have been obtained by Mr. James Sowerby, and described
     in Vol. 11. of Mm. Conch : each, referred to its proper Stra
     tum in Mr. Smith's Series and Map.
Adlington Hills (N of Romney Marsh),              10 m.   W of Folkstone,
        Kent, in Portland Rock.
                  Grypha?a dilatata, var.   /3 tab. 149, f. 2.
Aldborough, see vol. 46, p. 212, 2 species of Shells, in Crag Marl.
        Tellina obliqua, 1. 161, m. | Voluta Lamberti, t. 129, f.3.
Amberley-Heath,           \  m. SW of Minchin-Hampton,            Glouc. in
        Forest    Marble.
                         Patella rugosa, t. 139, f. 6.
Aswarby, near, Z\ S of Sleaford, Lincolnshire, in Cornbrash
        Limestone.                                 ,
                      Ammonites Herveyi a, t. 195, u.
Aynhoe,      see  vol.  46, p. 212, 4 species, in Fullers'-earth Rock.
                      Ostrea acuminata y, t. 135, f. 3.
    * I was not unmindful of the promise made at the end of my first Index,
(P. M. vol. 46, p. 224,) and repeated p. 285, as to preparing a Paper on
Fossil Shells, intended for your Work : just as I had finished the same. Sir
Richard Phillips undertook, at my request, to give some account in his
" Monthly Magazine," (see vol. xl. p. 379) of my Friend Mr. Smith's Map
of the  Strata, and Memoir, for which purpose I lent him my Copies of the
same : and thinking that the Paper I had drawn up, and addressed hut not
sent to you, would somewhat explain to Sir R. the nature and objects of
those Works on Fossil Shells, which my friend Smith intended publishing,
I  lent this manuscript (retaining no copy) with Smith's Map, and never got
it back again   : it was pretended to have been sent to me by the Two-penny
Post.
                                             "
                                          ,                        Babling

                      recently   described   ly Mr.               Sowerhy.                       351
Babling-Hill,             of Yeovil, Somerset, in Under Oolite.
                    Astarte elegans, t. 137, f. 3.
Barry-Island, see vol. 46, p. 213, 1 species, in blue Lias.
                  Plagiostoma punctata, 1. 113, f. 2.
Barton Cliff, see vol. 46, p. 2 13, 25 species, in London Clay,
     upper part.
  Auricula simulata, 1. 163, f. 5 Nucula minima, 1. 1 92, f. 8 & 9.
     to 8.                                      similis, 1. 192, f. 10.
  Cardium     semigranulatum,                  trigona. t. 192, f. 5.
     t. 144.                         Pleurotoma colon, t. 146, f. 7
  Cerithium geminatum,t.l 27,           and 8.
     f.2.                                           exorta, t. 146 f. 2.
              pyramydale,t.l27,      -              rostrata a, t. 146,
     f. 1.                              f. 3.
  Murex carinella, t. 187, f. 3 Voluta ambigua (monst.),
     and 4.                             1. 115, f. 5.
           fistulosus, t.lS9, f. 1            luctator, t. 1 15, f. I.
      and 2.                                  spinosa u, t. 115, f. 2
           regularis,t.l87,f.2.         and   4.
           tubifer, t. 189, f . 3                           1.  15.    3.        /3,    1    f.
     to    8.
Ditto, in London Clay, lower part.
                       Cyclas obovata,       1.   162,       f.
                                                             4        to 6.
Bath, in NE corner of Somersetshire (near),                                see vol. 46,     p,   213,
     Clay on upper Oolite.
                        Ostrea acuminata          at,   t.     135,    f.   2.
Ditto,     ditto, species (Terebratula digona y,
          see            1
                                                    96) in upper                 t.
     Oolite.
Ditto, see ditto,    species (Mactra gibbosa a, and Terebratula
                         2
     media)  in Fullers' Earth Rock.
Ditto, see ditto, species (Nautilus lineatus
                         1                      in under Oolite.           «)
          Cardita? obtusa a, t. 197,    2.               f.
                     producta a, t. 97j    •      1          f.   1
          Lima gibbosa a, t. 152.
                Planorbis    euomphalus       /3,     t.   140,       f.   8   and 9.
Ditto,                                in Marlstone.
                        Ammonites Walcotii a,        106.      t.
Ditto, W,       see    vol. 46, p. 213,  1species in  Blue Lias.
                       Ammonites Bucklandi,        130.      t.
                                     Conybeari, t. 131.
                                     Greenoughi,               t.   132.
                       Cardita? lirata a, t.            197',       f.3.
                       Gryphaea incurva a, t.              1 12,      f.   1.
                       Nautilus truncatus,         t.      123.
                       Unio erassissimus,      1. 153 (in Clay).
Ditto,    see ditto                     1    species (Plagiostoma gigantea a,
     t.   77) in White (and Blue             ?)Lias.                 Bawdsey

352                  Localities of Fossil Shells,
Bawdsey Cliff, 8m.     SE of Woodbridge, Suffolk, in Crag, on Blue
      Clav.
  Cassis bicatenatus, t. 151.           Unio crassicusculus, t. 185.
  Nucula lanceolata, t. 180,            Voluta Lamberti, t. 129.
      f.l.
Bayeux,       m. WNW of Caen in Normandy, in under Oolite.
             1 1
           Ammonites Brongniarti, t. A. f. 2, p. 190.
                        Gervillii, t. A f. 3, p. 189.
                        Cardita ? producta a, t. 197, f. 1.
Bennington, 4 m. ESE of Stevenage, Herts, in London Clay,
     lower part.
           Gryphaea dilatata a, t. 149, f. 1.
Birdbrook, 9{ m. NW of Halstead, Essex, in Crag, perhaps
     alluvial ?
             Gryphaea incurva          12,
                                      /3,       1.alluvial  f.   2,                  ?        -»
             Nautilus intermedins           /3, 1
                                       t. 125.
Black-down Hills, see vol. 46. p. 214, 10 species, in Green Sand.
                Auricula incrassata,     163,  t.  to 3.         f.   1
                Cardium proboscideum,         156,         t.              f.   1.
                           umbonatum,        156,       to 4.
                                                           t.         f.    2
Black-Rock, near Cork, see vol. 46, p. 214,         species, in Derby 5
               Limestone.
      shire-peak
              Spirifer cuspidatus,    120,    5. t.              f.
Bolingbroke, 3| WSW of Spilsby, Lincolnshire, in Clunch Clay.
              Patella latissima a, t. 139,                       f.   1.
Boreham, m. ESE of Warminster, Wilts, in Green Sand.
              1
                    Nautilus simplex,    122.              t.
Bourn,     E,
          7{  W  of Spalding,  Lincolns.  in Clunch Clay.
                  Gryphaea dilatata y,      149.    t.
Bracklesham Bay, see vol. 46, p. 214,         species (Melania sulcata,
                                                      3
      t.39,  and  Turritella conoidea,  t.  51,       being omitted,
                                                                f.    1.                           II.
     239) in London Clay, upper part.
                  Sanguinolaria Hollowaysii, 1. 159.
Bradford,     E  4| WSW of Calne, Wilts, see vol. 46, p. 214,
      1 species, in Clay on upper Oolite.
Ditto, SW,                      in under Oolite.
                  Ammonites Herveyi          t. 195, lo.
                                                     /3,
Bramberry-Hill,    4   m. SE of Clyne Church, on SE coast of
     Sutherland, Scotland,        Mountain Limestone
                                 in                                                  ?
            Gryphaea dilatata >j,    149.
                                       t.
Bramerton-Hill, see vol. 46, p. 214,          species, in Crag Marl.
                                                      5
            Astarte plana, t.  179,            f.
                                           (perhaps alluvial                             ?)
            Mactra cuneata, t. 160,         f. 2,
                                                       f. 7.
            Nucula Cobbo^diae, t. 180,                          2.
            Tellina obtusa, t.  179,    4.
                                            f. f.
                     ovata, 1. 161,    2.
                                                                                          Bridport,

                    recently described by                Mr. Sowerly.                              353
Bridport, near, 13£ W of Dorchester, Dorset, in the under
     Oolite ? Marl.
                  Ammonites Stokesi, t. 191.
Brockenhurst, see vol. 46, p. 215, 1 species, in the London Clay,
     upper part.
            Venus incrassata, 1. 155, f. 1 and 2.
Bromham, 3 { m. NW of Devizes, Wilts, in the Portland Rock.
               Gryphaea dilatata       149,     2. fi,   t.             f.
Bugthorp, Sim. NNW of Pocklington, York ER, in theBlueLias.
                  Trochus Anglicus, t. 142.
Calne, W,    m.6      W of Devizes, Wilts, in the Cluuch Clay.
                         N   by
                  Gryphaea dilatata y,     149.                1.
Cambridge, Castle-hill, see vol. 46, p. 215,       species, in the            1
     Chalk-marl.
Ditto, N,                      the Oak-tree Clay.
                                  in
                     Ostrea deltoidea «,       148.           t.
Cardiff, Castle-hill, see vol. 46, p. 215,    species, in the Blue Lias.
                                                              1
               Plagiostoma punctata,     t.   13,             1         f.    2.      ,
Carrington,                   Oxfordshire, in the under Oolite.
  Pecten equivalvis, t. 136,           Pecten fibrosus rj, t. 136,     2.
                                            2 1.
                                       f.      |
                                                                                               f.
Castleton, see vol. 46, p. 215,       species, in the Derbyshire-peak
     Limestone.
                     Spirifer cuspidatus, t. 120.
Chapel-House,       m.
                     1  NE of Chipping-Norton, Oxfoidsh.             the                      in
     under Oolite.
                Cardita? product.! a,        197,         t.             f.   1.
Charlton, m. SW of Woolwich, Kent, in the London Clay,Iower
              I
     part.
        Cerithiuraintermedium,      147,       and 4.
                                              t.               f.   3
                  melanioides a,     147,     6.   t.             f.
       Cyclas cuneiformis, t. 162,        and 3.       f.
                                                    1,
              deperdita? t. 162,         (with Chert nodules).
                                                   f.  2
              obovata, t. 162, .     to 6.  f      4
Chatley,4f m.        W of Frome, Somerset, see vol. 46,
                     N   by                                    215,                       p.
     4species (see below), in the Cornbrash Limestone.
                 Pecten fibrosus «,     136,     2.     t.             f.
Ditto,                species (Terebratula ornithocephala,
                         1                                       101,                     t.
     f.   1   and   2,
                 being omitted)     the Kelloway Stone.
                                             in
                Gryphaea incurvata y,        12,             t.   1         f.
                                                                            2     ?
Chicksgrove Quarry (of which the sinking       particularized, vol. 2.
                                                                   is
     p. 58) 41 m. SE of Hindon, Wilts, in the Portland Rock.
                Ammonites gigantea a, 1. 126.                                             ,
                                         1. 126.         0,
                Astarte cuneata,    137, f*^. 1.
Childrey,   in. WNW of Wantage, Berks, in the Chalk-marl.
              2
                      Pecten Beaverj,     158.           t.
  Vol. 52. No.247. Nov. 1818.                               Chilmark,
                                                                    Z

354                           Localities       of Fossil         Shells,
Chilmark, 3$ m. E of Hindon, Wilts, in the Portland Rock.
                  Astarte cuneata, t. 137, f. 2.
Chute Farm, see vol. 46, p. 216, 8 species, in the Green Sand.
                  Terebratula Lyra, t. 138, f. 2.
Colebrook-Dale, see vol.46, p. 216, 3 species, in the Derbyshire-
      peak Lime-stone.
                   Orthocera annulata, t. 133.
Ditto,                     in the Coal-measures.
                  Ammonites Walcotii S, t. 106.
Colomby (St.), 4 m. SSW of Volagne, in the Cotentin, the
     Department of the Channel, or Lower Normandy, France,
     in                Limestone, with quartz grains.
          Ammonites constrietus, t. A. f. 1, p. 189.
          Cerithium Cornucopia;      t. 188, 3-and 4./S,               f.
Comb-Pyne,    10m;  ENE   of Sidmouth, Devon, in the lowerChalk.
                            Ammonites          rusticus,         1.   177.
Coney-Weston, 54 m. WNW of Bottesdale, Suffolk, in the Lon
     don Clay, lower part.
                    Gryphaea dilatata a, t. 149.
Cork, see Black Rock.
Cotentin district, see Colomby.
Cots wold- Hills, see vol. 46, p. 216,   species, in the upperOolite.
                                                       1
Ditto,          .                               in the under Oolite.
                      Lima gibbosa a, t. 152.
Cowes, East, (near) at       end of Isle of Wight^ Hants,
                                   N                            species,                 1
     (Natioa   depressa,  t.    being    5,
                                       omitted,  ii. 239) in the Cowes
     Rock, of Limestone.
  Lvmnaea fusiformis, t. 169,        Planorbis euomphalus a,       140,                         1.
      f.   2    and 3.                                   f.7.
                    minima,
                    .              t.   169,                           Lens,   t.   140,   4.  f.
      f.   1.                                                          obtusus,     t.140,f. 3.
  Planorbis cylindricus,            1.   140,
      f.   2.
Culford-Hall, 4j m. NNW of Bury St. Edmunds, Suffolk, in
     the Crag Marl?
               Nautilus intermedins          125.          /3,   t.
Derbyshire, see vol. 46, p. 216,    species, in the Coal-measures.
                                                 2
Ditto,               species, in the Derbyshire-peak Limestone.
                              1
                Cirrus acutus,     141,         t.         f.     1.
                Helix? cirrifonnis, t. 177,      2.                    f.
                        striatus, t. 171,                        f.   1.
Devizes,        NE,     see vol.
                      46, p. 216, species, in the upper Chalk.
                                                     1
Ditto, N, in the Canalj                species, in the Green Sand.
                                                      4
  Ammonites auritus, t. 134,       Ostrea gregarea a, t.                                 1
                                                                                         1      1,   f.   1.
  Cardita? tuberculata,t. 143. Pecten orbicularis,        186.                      t.
  Helix Gentii,   145.   t.        Pleurotonia rostrata        146,                      /3,   t.
                                        3.            f.   Devon-

                    recently described             hj Mr. Sowerly.                       355
Devonshire,                in the Derbyshire-peak Limestone.
                Ammonites Walcotii s, t. 106.
Donat's Castle, 2\ m. ENE of Cowbridge, Glamorganshire, in
    the Blue Lias.
               Gryphffia obliquata, 1. 1 12, f. 3.
                     Plagiostoma         punctata, t. 113, f. 1.
Dover,   SW, under Cliff, 7 m. NE of Folkstone, Kent, in the
     Chalk-marl, pyritic.
                Nucula pectinata, t. 192, f. 6 and 7.
Dry-Sandford, 2\ m. NW of Abingdon, Berks, in the Portland
     Rock.
  Ammonites excavatus, t.105.         Ammonites vertebralis, t.165.
             -- plicatilis, t. 166.
Dundry-Hill, 3y m. SSW of Bristol, Somerset, in the underOolite.
  Ammonites Braikenridgii,          Trochus abbreviatus,t.l93,f.5.
     t. 184.                                 elongatus, t. 193, f. 2
               Brocchii, t. 202.       to 4.
  Cardita? obtusaa, t.l97,f. 2.              punctatus, t. 193, f. 1.
Durham County,                       in the blue beds of the buff or
     yellow Limestone         ?
                  Unio Listeri    t. 154,
                                        /3,      and 4.      f.   1,
                                                                  3
Dursley,   4   m. W  of Berkeley, Gloucesters. in the under Oolite.
                     Pecten equivalvis,       136,       t.             f.      1.
Earl-Stoke,     7 m. NE of Warminster, Wilts,          species (Turrilites  1
       costata a. t. 36, being omitted, ii. 45) in the Chalk-marl
                      Nautilus Comptoni,           121.           t.
Emsworth, N, |m. NE of Havant, Hants, species (Pecten
                    J                                                           1
      quinquecostata,      56, being omitted, ii. 239) in Flint in the
                             t.
      upper Chalk.
Ditto, NW, on common, Sand-pit,                       species (Dentalium
                                                                       1
      cylindricum,     79, being omitted, ii. 239) in alluvia of the
                        t.
       Green Sand     ?
Farley-Gate,                      Gloucestershire, in the under Oolite.
                   Gryphaea    dilatata        149,     8,   t.         1. f.
                   Pecten equivalvis,       136,        t.             f.  1.
Filliagh,  3 m. WNW of South Moulton, Devon,                species (Am              1
      monites striatus         53,
                             /3,   t.      being omitted, ii. 69) in the
                                              f.   1,
       Coarse Slate, or Killas.
Folkstone, NE, see vol. 46,p.2!7, 11 species, in the Chalk-marl.
              Ammonites splendens a,          103,       and 2.
                                                         t.             f.      1
              Cirrus plicatus,     141, t.  3.      f.
              Nucula pectinata,       192,    t.  and        f.   6             7.
             Patella tevis,      139,
                                   t.    3.        f.
Fonthill, see vol. 46, p. 218,        species, m the Green Sand.
                                              1
Ditto, SE, (Chicksgrove)            ?           in the Portland Rock.
               Ammonites giganteus a,          126.          1.
                                         Z     2                                         Fox

 356                      Localities      of Fossil Shells,
 Fox-hill Quarries,                           .                    Gloucestershire,             in the
      under Oolite.
                  Astarte lurida, 1. 137, f. !.
 Framilode, near,     SW of Gloucester, in the Blue Lias.
                      7 m.
       Gryphaea incurva a, t. 112, f. 1, (Pak. iii. 209).
Framlingham, 3£ m. SE of Norwich,               in the Crag-marl.
                   Tellina ovata, t. 161, f. 2.
France,                            in the under Oolite.
                  Terebratula acuta, t. 150, f. 1.
Frethern (or Freborne) 5|m. NNE of Berkeley, Gloucest. in the
     Blue Lias.
                   Gryphaea incurvata a, 1. 112, f. 1.
 Giles's, St., Gate, of Norwich, 1 species (Terebratula subun-
       data a, t. 15, f. 7, being
                                    omitted) in the upper Chalk.
-Grignon Quarries, 19 m. W of Paris, in " Coarse Limestone,"
       &c. (P.M. 35, p. 118) answering to the London Clay,
       upper part ? (see P. M. 35, p. 132).
                  Cerithium giganteum, 1. 188, f. 2.
                   Murex tubifer, t. 189, f. 3 to 8.
 Haldon Hills,    see  vol. 46, p. 218, 4 species, in the Green Sand.
                   Planorbis euomphalus y, t. 140, f. 8.
                              radiatus, t. 140, f. 5.
 Hampton-common, 1 m. WNW of Minchin Hampton, Glou-
       cestersh. in the Forest Marble.
                   Patella rugosa, t. 139, f. 6.
 Hamsey, see vol. 46, p. 218, 7 species, in the Chalk-marl.
                  Ammonites varians, 1. 176.
                   Cerithium melanioides        t. 147.     /3,
                  Pecten Beaveri, t. 158, u.
 Harwich, SSE, see vol. 46, p. 218,         species, in the Crag-marL
                                                       2
                         Voluta Lamberti, 1. 129.
 Headington, l|m. ENE of Oxford, in the Oaktree Clay, pyritic.
                      Astarte lineata, t. 179,                           1.
 Ditto, Common (not Heddington, Wilts                           !), f.
                                                   see Skotover Hill.
 Headon-Hill, SW of West Cowes, see Cowes.
 Highgate, SE, see vol. 46, p. 218, 22 species, in the LondonClay,
       upper part.
   Auricula simulata, t.l63.f.            5       Murex tubifer,              t.   189,f.   6    to 8.
       to 8.                                      Nucula minima,               1.   192,   f.   8& 9.
               turgida,   1.   163, f.4.     similis, t.l92,f.3&4.
   Murex coniferus, t. 1S7,          Pleurotoma acuminata,
                                      I.
                                     f.                         146,                       t.
           curtus,    199,
                     t.      5. f.        4.           f.
Hilary, St.,   \
               \ m. SE of Cowbridge, Glamorganshire, in the Der
     byshire-peak Limestone.
                Spirifer cuspidatus,    120,     to 4.
                                                  t.            f.   1
Hollesley,     m. SW of Orford, Suffolk, in the Crag Marl.
               5
                        Venus rustica,      96.        t.  Holywell,
                                                            1

                      recently described by              Mr.        Sowerby.                               357
Holywell,     see     vol. 46, p. 219,       14 species, in the     Crag Mark
   Astarte obliquata,          t.l79,f.3.           Murex striatus    t. 109.        /3,
  Buccinum granulatura,t.                10,        Nucula Cobboldiae,
                                                                                                             f. 2.
                                     1                                     80,              1.  1       f.
      f.4.                                                  laevigata, t. 192,                                       1
                    reticosum, t. 110,                   and 2.
      f. 2.                                         Patella equalis,
                                                               139,    2.           t.              f.
               rugcsum, t. 110,                 unguis,      139,                   1.           f. 7    &     8.
      f..3.                            Tellina obliqua,           161,                     t.                f.      1
   Mactra arcuata, t. 160, f. 1           and m.
     and 6.                            Trochus laevigatus,         181,                     t.             f.    1.
            dubia,t. 1 60, f.2 to 4.               similis,     181,    2.           t.               f.
                                       Voluta Lamherti,           129.                     t.
Hordle-Cliff, see vol. 46, p. 219,        species,  7    the London ClaVj in
      upper part.
                  Cerithium (una turn,       128,      2.
                                                        t.               f.
                           :   pyramydale, t. 127,                             f.   1.
Horningsham, see vol.46, p. 219,            species, in the lower Chalk,
                                                     1
Ditto,                                     species, in the Green Sand.
                                                    1
                  Terebratula pectita, t. 138,                           f.    1.
Huntcliffe,     m. NE of Gisborough, York NR, in the Kelloway
               ?, 6
     Stone      ii. 239. (see P. M. xlix. p. 25 Notef.)                   1,
                       Chama digitata           174.     j3,   t.
Hythe, N, 4* m. WSW of Folkstone, Kent, in the Green Sand,
     marly.        Ammonites Nutfieldiensis a, t. 108.
Ilminster,    E,see  vol. 46, p. 220,      species, in the under Oolite.
                                                    2
              Pecten equivalvis,       136,    1.              f.   1.
               Terebratula acuta, t. 150,         2.            f.
                             resupinata,      15,        and 4.
                                                         t.          f.
                                                                     3
Ditto,  S,                              in the Clunch Clay.
                     Gryphaea dilatata y, t. 149.
Kelloways-Bridge, see vol. 46, p. 220,           species,     the Kelloway
                                                                1                   in
     Stone.      Ammonites      Calloviensis   a,  t. 104.
                  Cardita? deltoidea         t. 197,      4.
                                                         /3,               f.
                  Pecten fibrosus y,       136,.    t.
                  Plagiostoma obscura, 1. 114,          2.               f.
Kendal (near), see vol. 46, p. 220,         species, in the Derbyshire-
                                                        2
      peak Limestone.
                   Planorbis equalis,       140,     t.              f.   1.
Keynsham,      4m. SE of Bristol, Somersetshire, in the Blue Lias.
                  Nautilus intermedius a,           125.        t.
                             truncatus, t. 123.
Knowles-Hill,      m. SSE of Bruton, Somerset, in the under Oolite.
                      2
                 Ammonites Herveyi            t. 195, lo. /3,
Lechlade,   N,     m.
                    3  ESE   of  Fairford,  Gloucestersh.     in the Corn-
      brash Limestone.
                 Cardita deltoidea a,
                                ?              197,      4.t.             f.        .
                                         Z   3                       Lewes,

358                         Localities        of Fossi I Shells,
Lewes,     N,    see vol.   46, p. 220,           in the lower Chalk ?
                                                   2 species,
Ditto, E,                               species, in the upper Chalk ?
                                                   1
              Terehratula octo-plicata, t. 118, f. 2.
Little Sodbury, see vol.46, p. 220, 2 species, in the underOolite.
                   Trochus concavus, 1. 181, f. 3.
                         -—
                             dimidiatus, t. 181, f. 4.
                             duplicatus, t. 181, f. 5.
Llantrissent, S, 9 m. NW of Cardiff, Glamorganshire, in the
      Derbyshire-peak Limestone.
                    Ammonites Walcotii s, 1. 106.
Long-Comb (or Lincomb) Girts, 4| m. N of Sidmouth, Devon,
      in the Kelloway Stone, flinty chert.
                      Chama digitata a, t. 174.
Lopham, 3 m. S of East Harling, Norfolk, in the London Clay,
      lower part.
                    Ostrea deltoidea           148.      /3,   1.
Lyme-Regis,    see  vol. 46,  p. 22,    species, in the Marlstone.
                                                   2
Ditto,  NE,                            in  the Blue Lias.
    Ammonites Brooki, 1. 190.          Ammonites Loscombi,         183.                      t.
  °
                ftmbriatus,          1.
                                      1   6
                                          4   .    - obtusus, 1. 167.
                Henleyi, 1. 172.       Nautilus striatus, t. 182.
Lyth,  3 m. NW of Whitby, Yorks. see Whitby.
Maiden, near,        m.
                     ~t
                     \      of Chelmsford, Essex, in the Crag Marl.
                               E
                   Murex costellifer, t. 199,       3.
                                                                      f. f. f.
                           echinatus, t. 199,       4.
                           rugosus           199,  |3,   t.                      1.
Marcham,        m. W of Abingdon, Berks, in the Portland Rock.
                1\
                  Ammonites excavatus,           105.           t.
                                 plicatilis,    166.           t.
                                 vertebralis, t. 165.
Margate,   4 m. NNW of Ramsgate, Kent, in the upper Chalk.
                     Terebratula plicatilis,                   t.   118,         f.   1.
Marston-field,       \\m. NE of Oxford,                                           in the Clunch Clay.
                 Ostrea palmetta,                        t.    Ill,    f.        2.
Mitford (or Midford), see vol. 46, p. 221,                            1     species, in the under
      Oolite.
                Ammonites Walcotii y, t. 106.
Mordiford,    m. ESE of Hereford,
                3|                             in the Derbyshire-
    peak Limestone.
            ?
               Terebratula Wilsoni,      18,   3.        t.    1          f.
Mundesley,    m.6SE  of Cromer,  Norfolk,    species, (Terebratula   1
    carnea, 1. 15,   1   andf.  being omitted, ii. 77) in the up
                                 5            6,
     per Chalk.
  Magas pumilus,    19.   t. 1Ostrea canaliculata, 1. 135,
                                               |
                                                                                                  f.   1.
Neots, St., 7^m. SW of Huntingdon, in the Clunch Clay.
                Ammonites Duncani,     157.                     t.
                                                                                                  New-

                recently described by                     Mr. Sowerly.
New-cross, in Canal, 1| m. E of Peckham, Surrey,                  in
     the London Clay, lower part, with chert nodules.
   Cerithium melanioides           Cyclas cuneiformis, t. 162, f. 2
     t. 147, f. 7.                   and 3.
                                          obovata, 1. 162, f.4 to 6.
Newhaven, SW, Castle-hill, 6| m. S by E of Lewes, Sussex, in
     the London Clay, upper part.
                Cerithium funatum, t. 128, f. 1.
Ditto,                      in the London Clay, lower part.
               Cerithium melaniodes a, t. 147, f. 7.          '
New Mai ton, N, 17 m. NE of York,                  in the Portland
      Rock.
                Unio Listeri a, t. 154, f. 3 and 4.
Norfolk, County, see vol.46, p. 221, 1 species,                                              in the
     Crag Marl.
                  Tellina obliqua, t. 161, f. 1.
Northfleet, see vol. 46, p. 221, 1 species,                                                  in the
     upper  Chalk.
                Terebratula plicatilis, t. 118, f. 1.
Northleach, 10 m. NNE of Cirencester, Gloucestershire,                                       in the
     upper Oolite.
                  Pecten fibrosus                   /3,
                                                                        f.
                                        136,              t.            2.
Norton-Bavant,     seevol. 46, p. 221, 2^pecies, (Hamites inter-
     medius, t. 62, in Down Quarry     being omitted) in the lower
                                                        ?
      Chalk.
                         Nautilus elegans,                          116.
Norton, under Hamdon, 6£m.                     E        by   N t.   of Ilminster,        Somerset,
    in the under Oolite.
                   Nautilus obesus,            124.         t.
Nottinghamshire,              in the blue beds of Yellow Limestone                                 ?<U+25BA>
                     Unio hybridus,        154,    2.
                                                    t.              f.
Nuffield, see vol. 46, p. 22       species, in the Green Sand,brown.
                                   1
                                   ,   1
               Ammonites Nutfieldiensis a, 1. 108.
Oxfordshire (Oxford      E   and ENE
                              ?,                       species (Trigonia
                                                          ?)             2
     clavellata  0, and costata         87 85, being omitted) in the
                                             |3,   t.
     Oak-tree Clay.
Pakefield, see vol. 46, p. 221,      species,
                                        I            in an alluvial lump
     of Limestone.
  Gryphaea dilatata      s, 149.
                              t.      Patella latissima
                                             ]               t. 139,    5.         /3,        f.
Paris, near, in France, see P. M. vol. 35, p. 116 to 124, species.                       1
     (Venericardia planicosta,       50, being omitted) in the Lon
                                             t.
     don Clay, upper part?.
              Cerithium pyramydale,           127,                            1.
                                                                   t.
                                                                         f.
              Nucula similis,      192,t.          and 10.
                                                        f.f. f. 3,
              Voluta Luctator,         15,                   1.
               —
                                           t.   1
                  — spinosa            /3,
                                      115,      3.              4,
                                         Z t.
                                                   4                Paris.

                          '
 360                              Localities      of Fossil Shells,
 Paris, near, in France (see P.M. vol.35,                                    p. 116 to 124) in the
      London Clay, lower part ?.
                Cyclas deperdita ? t.                              162, f.        I.
                Ostrea deltoidea                       j3,    t.    148.
 Peterborough,    m. NE of Oundle,
                      1
                      1                                             Northamptonshire,                   in the
      Cornbrash Limestone.
               Cardita deltoidea a,                                t. 197,   4.
                                                                                 f. f.
                                     ?
                        producta
                              1      ?                       (3,   1. 197,               1.
 Petty France,  m. NE of Sodbury,
                      4                                            Gloucestersh.              in the upper
       Oolite.
                Plagiostoma cardiiformis,         13,    3.             1.   1           f.
Pickeridge-Hill, A\ m. SSE of Taunton, Somerset, see vol. 46,
      p. 221,    3species, in the Blue Lias, and its Clay beds.
            Plagiostoma pectinoides, t. 114,           in Clay.              1. f.
                          punctata, t. 113,                             f.      4,
Plumstead, see vol. 46, p. 221,                 species, in the London
                                                                    5
      Clay,  lower  part, with  Cherts, Sand,    Loam, &c
   Cerithium funiculatum,            Cyclas obovata, t.162, f.4to6.
     1. 147,     f.and 2.
                      1              Murex graduatus,         199,    6.                      t.
                                                                                                        f. f.
   Cyclas cuneiformis,       162,    t.        rugosus y, t. 199, 2. -
       f. and 3.
            2                        Planorbis hemistoma,          140,                            t.
          deperdita? t.l62,f.l.            6.               f.
Plumpton, 3| m. NW of Lewes, Sussex, in the Chalk Marl.
                    Ammonites varians,        176.                 t.
Portland Isle, see vol. 46, p. 22      species, in the Portland Rock.
                                                  ,
                                                  1
                                                  3
                 Gryphaea dilatata       t. 149,    2. (3,                   f.
Purbeck Isle, or Peninsula,      of Corfe- Castle, Dorsetshire, in the
                                              S
       Portland Rock.
                          Ammonites            gigantea a, t. 126.
Radipole, see vol. 46, p. 222,                              species, in the Portland
                                                                   I
     Rock.
                              Gryphaea        dilatata     t. 149,
                                                             /3,     2.           f.
Regent's-Park, in Canal,                  1   m.  N   of London, in the London Clay,
       upper part.
              Cardium semigranulatum, 1. 144.
Richmond-Park Well, see vol. 46, p. 222,      species, in the Lon        3
    don Clay, upper part.
                 Voluta Luctator, t. 115,                                f.      1.
Riugmer, see vol. 46, p. 222,          species,   the Chalk Marl.
                                                             2                     in
                    Nautilus elegans, t. 116.
Roak,   m. W of Watlington, Oxfordshire,
        4                                             in the Chalk
    Marl.
                          Ammonites rostratus, t. 173.
                          Hamites armatus,    16S.          t.
Romney-Marsh, bounding Hills,                         see    Adlington.
                                                                                                   Roydon-

                          recently described by                     Mr.     Sowerby.                           361
 Roydon-Green,                 ljm. NW             of Diss, Norfolk, in                    the Crag           Marl,
         perhaps alluvial ?.
                           Nucula Cobboldiae, 1. 180, f. 2.
                           Tellina obtusa, t. 179, f.4.
                           Unio Listen y, t. 154, f. 1.
 Rude-Cliff,          3   m. NE ofWeymouth, Dorset, in the Portland Rock.
                              Gryphaea dil'atata          t. 149, f.2.
                                                             /3,
 Sandfoot-Castle,               1   m.   SSW       of Weymouth, Dorset, in the Clunch
         Clay.
                dilatata y,
         Gryphaea             149.   Ostrea deltoidea y, t. 14S.
                                              t.           |
 Sandgate,        7|SE of Dover, Kent,
                          m.                    in the Green Sand.
                     Ammonites monile,     117.                       t.
 Seamer, 4m. SWof Scarborough, York NR,inthePortlandRock.
                Unio Listen a, t. 154,       and 4.                  f.
                                                                     3
 Shalcombe, 3| m. SE of Yarmouth, in the Isle of Wight, Hants,
      in the Cowes Rock                   ?
   Helix globosus, t. 170.         Phasianella minuta, t.175, f.3.
   Phasianella angulosa,    172,          1. — orbicularis,  175,                                        t.
         f.2.                                                  f.
                                                                    by 1.
Sherborn,         E,
                   Park- Well,
                          in     m. W          of Stalbridge, Dorset,
                                                   6                     S
     see vol. 4f>, p. 222,    species, in the under Oolite.
                                          1
   Ammonites Banksii,       200.     Ammonites Brocchii,
                                         t.                    202.                                 t.
                Blagdoni, t.201.
Shotover-Hill, see vol. 46, p. 222,                    species, in the                 1
     Brick Earth on Portland or Aylesbury, Limestone.
Ditto,               species (omitting Melan. Hed. in the Portland
                               2
      Rock.
  Ammonites excavatus,
                                                                                                              f.
                                      Plagiostoma rigida,
                                          1.   105.    |        14,
                                                                                                    1.
                                                                                                    1         1.
Ditto,                            in the Oak-tree Clay.
                      Ostrea deltoidea a,     148.                   1.
Ditto,  see vol.  46,     222,     p.
                                species   (Melania Heddingtonensis,
                                               1
     t.  39, r. le, being wrong placed) in the Coral Rag.
Small- Cossal,           of Bath,            the Fullers' Earth Rock.
                                                                    in
                    Plagiostoma oralis, t. 14, f.3.                 1
Southfleet,     m. SW of Gravesend, Kent,
                 3                                         in the Lon
      don Clay, lower part.
               Cerithium melanioides a,      147,                   1.            f.   7.
Spalden, an error, see Asivarby.
Stanton-Hill,       m. NE of Winchcombe, Gloucestershire, in the
                          4
     under Oolite.
                   Terebratula acuta,     150,    2.           1.            f.
Stubbington Cliff, see vol. 46, p. 223,        species    of them be1
                                                                    1                      (9
     ing omitted, see ii. 230, as below*) in the London Clay,
      upper part.                                                                                         Ceri-
* viz. Cardium Plumsteadiense,                         I   Cassis carinatus,              t.   m.
                14,   r.i.                                             entalis,        t. 6
           t.                                          |   ^entalium                        70-
                                                                                                          Fusus

362                            Localities             of Fossil        Shells,
   Cerithium Cornucopia a,                                   Pleurotoma                 attenuata,              t. 146,
     t. 188, f. 1,3 and 4.                                        f. 1.
                    dubium, t. 147,                                                  comma, t. 146,f.5.
      f. 5.                                                                          semicolon, t. 146,
                  -giganteum,t.lS8,                            f.6.
      f. 2.                                                  Voluta spiuosa                  /3,     t.   1   15,   f.
                                                                                                                     3   :
                                                               ii. 239.
Suffolk, County, NW,                 see vol. 46, p. 223,                      1    species, in the lower
     Chalk.
Ditto,                                                     in the London Clay, lower part.
                       Gryphaea dilatata «, t. 149,                                f.   1.
Ditto,                                                   in the Crag Marl.
   Mactra ovalis,         t.    160,
                                         f.
                                         5.                Unio Listeri y,                   t.      154,      f.   1,   3,
   Tellina obliqua,            1.161,     f.      1          or       4    ?
     and m.                          Venus gibbosa,      155,    3.                          1.
                                                                   -
                                                                                                              f.
          -ovata,     161,1.  2.         f. lentiformis, t. 203.
Sussex, County, see vol. 46, p. 223,       spe. in the Chalk Marl.1
   Hamites armatus,       16S.  t.Nucula pectinata, 1. 192, f.6
                                                  |                  7.                                              &
Taunton,     m. NW of Ilminster, Somerset, in the under Oolite.
              9
     Astarte lurida,      137,  t.    Lima gibbosa a,
                                              f.      1.j  152.                                      1.
Trent River (upper part, NE of Newcastle-under-Line, Staf
     fordshire?) in the Coal-measures
                                            *
                   Ammonites Walcotii        t. 106.               8, ?'
Under-cliff, in    part of Isle of Wight, Hants, in theGreenSand.
                      S
                    Ammonites inflatus, 1. 178.
Vincent's, St., Rock,      m. W of Bristol, Gloucestershire, in the
                                     1
     Derbyshire-peak     Limestone.
                Spirifer cuspidatus,    120,        to 4.    t.                f.   1
Walton    leSoken (Nase), see vol. 46, p. 223,          species,    the                  2                          in
      Crag Marl
                      Buccinum elongatum, t. 110,      1.                           f.
                      Pholas cylindricus, t. 19S.
                      Venus lentiformis, t. 203 (Essex Cliff).
Westbrook,        6   m. SE of Melksham, Wilts, in the Coral Rag, and
    Clay.
                    Ammonites splendens,                          t.   103,   3.   f.
                    Ostrea gregarea  t.                /3,     Ill,        3.
                                                                           f.
Weston,   1    m.     NW of Bath, Somerset,                                               in      the Blue Lias.
                               Trochus anglicus, t. 142.
   Fusus longaevus,                   Scalaria acuta,
                                                                                             t. 6.
                      63. t.                                                            1.
                                                                                        1
   Pectunculus costatus,    27.     t.Trochus Benettise,     98, le.
   Rostellaria ?lucida,   91.   t.    Venericardia planicosta,     50.                                    t.
   * The lower part of the Trent River
                                        (although running upon Red Marl)
in a remarkable manner skirts the foot of the Lias Strata, for 165 miles, in
Nottinghamshire and Yorkshire and perhaps, therefore,
                                              :            reference to Lias              a
was intended, instead of Coal-measures?.
                                                                                                               •vm-:fi>,.

                      recently described by                   Mr.         Sowerby.                    363
Whitby,   see vol. 46, p. 224,                                         3 species, in the Alum
     Shale, or lower Clunch Clay.
                Ammonites angulatus, t. 107, f. 1.
                               communis, 1. 107, f. 2 and 3.
                               Walcotii   t. 106.           /3,
                Patella laevis,   139,    4.
                                       N t.
                                                            f.
White-conduit House,       m. 1    of London, in the London Clay,
    upper part.
                 Cardium semigranulatum, t. 144.
White-Lackington, see vol. 46, p. 224,        species, in the under   1
     Oolite.
  Ammonites Walcotii y,           1.  Pecten ecpiivalvis, t.l36,f.
                                       106.       |
                                                                                                          1.
Ditto,   NW,                      in the Blue Lias.
                   Trochus anglicus,       142.             t.
Wight, Isle of, on     coast of Hampshire, in the London Clay,
                          S
     lower part, pyritic.
            Cyclas cuneiformis, t. 162,         and 3.            f.   2
Wiltshire, see vol. 46,      224, p.  species, in the Clunch Clay,
                                                  1
     lower part.
Ditto,                                 in the Chalk Marl.
                  Ammonites varians,        176.                 t.
Windcombe, see Donfiead St. Mary.
Withyham,      m. ESE of East-Grinstead, Sussex, in the Brick-
               6
     Earth    ?
                 Ostrea acuminata         135,        /3,   t.             f.   2.
Woburn, N,        m. SW of Ampthill, Beds, in the Clunch Clay,
                  6
     upper part.
                   Gryphaea dilatata y,      149.                t.
Woodbridge, see vol. 46, p. 224,      species, in the Crag Marl.
                                                  2
   Mactra dubia, t. 160,          f.
                                  2 Nucula laevigata, t. 192,                                        f.
                                                                                                      I
     to 4.                               and                              2.
                                   Tellina obtusa,      179,    4.                   t.         f.
Woolwich, SW,       m. NW of Dartford, Kent,
                      7                             the LondonClay,            in
     lower part.
                "
                  Cyclas deperdita       162,     ?     t.             f.      1.
Yeovil, NE, see vol. 46, p. 224,      species, in the Marlstoue.
                                                  2
Ditto,                              the under Oolite.
                                              in
   Ammonites Brongniarti,t.  A.    Cirrus   nodosus,
                                              1          141,    2.                  t.          f.
    f.   2,p. 190.                 Nautilus sinuatus,
                                              I
                                                           194.                           t.
Ditto, N,                      in the Blue Lias.
                     Trochus anglicus,     142.              1.
                                                                                               LVII. An

                                 [    364    ]
LVII. An      Account of Experiments for determining the Length
   of the Pendulum vibrating Seconds in the Latitude of London.
   By Capt. Henry Kater, F.R.S.
                           [Continued from p. 182.]
                      Detail of     the  Experiments.
J.N  the first experiments which were made with the pendulum,
it has been already observed that the knife edges rested on plates
of hard steel ; but as these at the conclusion were found to have
suffered penetration in no slight degree, planes of agate were
substituted for them, and the results having thus been rendered
doubtful, were deemed inadmissible.            It may not however be ir
relevant to remark, that the distances of the knife edges obtained:
by the two methods which have been before described, did not
differ quite one ten-thousandth of an inch ; and, that on remea-
surement after the knife edges had been used a very considerable
time, their distance was found to be increased, by wear, four di
visions only of the micrometer, or not quite two ten-thousandths
of an inch. The length of the seconds pendulum deduced'from
these first experiments, differed from the result of the observa
tions about to be detailed, only two ten -thousandths of an inch
in defect.     I nevertheless think it useless to insert these first ex
periments, as the near approximation of the result cannot but be
deemed to have been in some degree accidental.
   In repairing the knife edges after the termination of the first
series of experiments, one of them was broken, and when it was
replaced by another, the distance between them was increased
about one-hundredth of an inch ; a circumstance which proved
rather gratifying than otherwise, as it afforded a pendulum dif
fering in length from the former one, and which yet gave nearly
the same result.
   June 9th, 1817, the knife edges being adjusted parallel to each
other, and the scale and pendulum having remained together for
several preceding days, the pieces A, a, and B, b, were applied
to the knife edges in the manner described in the former part of
this paper, and the following measurements were taken.
             Distance from      A to   a, 329-06 divisions.
                             B to b, 366-97.
                   Readings of the Micrometer.      Divisions
           Date.
                   A to a.     B to   b.    Scale.  +39-4 in.
           June     27-0         62-0       653-0    956-51
           9th.     210          520        642-7    954-21
                    13-0         52-0       642-5    958-01
                    120          48-0       638-5    956-51
                    18-0         50-0      C43-0     957-01
                    18-0         500       6120      956-01
                                                           Table continued.

Experiments for determining the Length                of the Pendulum.      365
                           Table       continued.
                  The Pieces changed.
           June       65-5        112-7         698-0      956-91
            10th.     640         112-5         6960       955-76
                               -
                      610         106-2         693-2      957-61
                      64-5        108-0         693-5      955-26
                      65-0        106-2         694-5      956-91
                      67-2        107-0         696-0      956-91
                                 Mean of the whole         956-47
Hence the distance between the knife edges is 39•4 inches
+956-47 divisions of the
                                   micrometer.
   June   12th,   the    knife   edges    having been adjusted parallel to
each other,    the   following     measurements       were taken, the knife
edges being viewed        as dark    objects    on  a white   ground.
                       Dark   on a     White Ground.
                       Readings of the Micrometer.
      Date. Near side of Further side                             Divisions
                                             Mean.      Scale.
                the bar.     of the bar.                          +39-4 in.
                  500            50-0        50-00     1006-5      956-50
      June
                  500            500          5000                 956-50
        12
                  500            500          50-00                956-50
                  49-0           50-0         49-50                956-50
        12        46-5           44-0         42-25     1001-0     955-75
                  44-5           44-5         45-50     1001-0     955 50
                  420            430          42-50     1003-0     960-50
                  430            43-0         4300      10030       96000
                                                                             i
        13        37-5           38- 0        37-75      994-0      956-25
                  35-0           39- 0        37- 00     993-5      956-50
                  380            350          36 60     10010       964-50
                  380            380          38- 00                963-00
                                                       —
                  25-5                        26-50       987-0"    960- 50
        14                       27-5
                  250            26-5         25-75       987-5     961- 75
                  24 0           25-2         24- 60                962- 90
                  25-0           25-7         25- 25                962-25
      ~l4~         79-5           78-0         78-75    1042-0      963-25
                   760            75-0         75-50                966-50
                   72-0           71-5         71-75    1035-2      963'45
                   74-0           73-5         73-75                961-45
                                            Mean of the whole       960-00
                                     Correction for irradiation     —5-51
                                          (see page 1 79)           954-49
     By the foregoing measurements, the distance between the knife
 edges appears to be 39-4 inches + 954-49 divisions.
                                                                               The

366    An Account of                     'Experiments                          for              determining                                        the Length of
   The pendulum was now placed on its support, and the following
experiments made for equalising the number of vibrations.
   Slider 18 divisions.
   Clock losing 0''-33                                Great weight above.                                                                                            Barometer
   on mean time.                                                                                                                                                        29-7.
                            Time of      Arc of
                                                                                                                                                          for arc.
                                                                                               of
                                                                                                     vibrats.
                                                                              in se
                                                                                                                            5
                    Temp.                                           Interv.           conds.                                                                                          in 5
                                         vibra
                                                      Mean                                                                           hours.
                             coinci                          arc.                                                       tions                     Corr.                       tions
                              dence.      tion.                                                No.              Vibra           in                                    Vibra
              »              m.     s.   0
   June       66-8           29     12       1-29
                                                     n                                                                                        s
      9th.
                                                      1-18           518                       516 86066- 40                                   2-28                   86068- 68
  J                          37     SO   1-07
              66-8
                                                      1-00           520                       518 86067- 70                                   1-63                   86069- 33
                             46    30    0-93
                                                                                                                                              Mean 86069-00
                                                                                                                                              Clock — o-ss
              66-8           mean                                                                                                                                     86068-67
                                                  Great weight below.
              66-6           5     59    1-2.5
                             14    32     1M3
                                                      1-19          513                        .511 86063-16                                   232                   86065 48
                                                      1-06          512                        510 86'162-50                                   1-84                  86064-34
              66-7          23      4     1-01
                                                                                                                                               Mean                  86064-91
                                                                                                                                               Clock                   —          0-33
                                                                                                                                              Temp.                    —         0  04
              66-7          mean
                                                                                                                                                                     86064.54
  Here the vibrations were in                            excess  the slider was therefore      ;
placed at 29 divisions,                           and the second weight moved nearer to
its knife edge.
  <&2ff$s
  on mean ,ime
                                                    *Gre"
                                                    SetOIld                     alove\
                                                                         We'Sht ln0ved-
                                                                                                                                                                     Brrer
                                                                                                                                                                      ''9        7"
                            III.   s.    •                                                                                                    s
  June                             42                0
             67   0         67            1-23
                                                     113                506                    504 86058-49                                   2-08                   86C60-57
  19th.                      6      3    1 .04
                                                     0-96               509                    507 86060-50                                    1-51                  8606201
             66-9           14     37    0-8S
                                                                                                                                              Mean 86C6T29
                                                                                                                                              Clock — 0-33
             66-9           mean                                                                                                                                     86060 96
                                                             .        _          °             -
                                                                                               -                -
                                                    Great weight below.
             67-1           24     31)   1-14
                                                     107              506                  504 86058 49                                       1-87                   86060-36
                            33     5     1   01
                                                     0-97             507                  505 86059-16                                       1-51                   86060-67
             67-1           41     32    0-93
                                                                                                                                          Mean 86060-51
                                                                                                                                          Clock — 0-33
                                                                                                                                         Temp         09              +        0
             67-1           mean                                                                                                                                     86060-27

the Pendulum vibrating Seconds in the Latitude                                                                                                       of London.                      367
                             being still in excess, the second
      The number of vibrations
weight was moved again, the slider remaining as before.
  -——                                                                                                  —                                                                                          1
  Slider 29 divisions.                       Great weight above.                                                                                                 Barometer
  Clock losing 0"'S3
  on mean lime.
                                            Second weight moved.                                                                                                   29-7.
                          Time of Arc ol
                                                                                                                                                                                     |
                                                                                                       of                           5                 Corr.                     5
                  Temp.                                       Mean          Interv.   in se   conds.         vibrats.
                                                                                                                                tions        hours                 Vibra-
                                                                                                                                                                            tions
                                                                                                                                                                                         hours.
                           coinci vibra                              arc.
                                                                                                                        Vibra
                                                                                                                                                     for arc                        in
                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                        in
                           dence.  tion.                                                               No.
                                                                                                                                                                   1
                           m.    s.        o                                                                                                          s.
                                                              a
      June    67-3        51      7        1-21           .   i-n             503                      501 86056- 47                                  2-02        86058- 49
      19th.               59     30       1 02                                                                                                        1-48        86058 64
                                                              0-95            504                      502 86057- 16
                           7     54       0-S8                                                                                                        505         86059- 54
                                                              0-80            504                      504 86058- 49
                          !6     20             73                                                                                                                86059 91
                                          0 0                 0-68            507                      505 86059- 16                                  0-75
              67-3        24     47             63
                                                                                                                                                      Mean         86059-14
                                                                                                                                                      Clock         — 0-33
              67-3        mean                                                                                                                                     86058-81
  -
                                                         Great weight below.
              <U+25A1>7-4        30      8       1         14
                                                                                                                                                                   86059-i0
                                                              1-09              504                    502               86057-16                     1-94
                          38     32         1-05
                                                                                                                                                      1-60         86058 76
                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                              0-99              504                    502               86057- 16
                          40"    56           94
                                          0 0                 0      89         506                    504               86058- 49                    1-30         86059- 79
                          55     22           84
                                                              0-79              506                    504              '86053-49                      1-(/2       86059-51
              67-4         3     48         0-75
                                                                                                                                                      Mean 86059-29
                                                                                                                                                      Clock — 0-33
                                                                                                                                                     Temp.             +            0-04
              67-4         mean                                                                                                                                    86059 00
      Slider 29 divisions.                                                                                                                                       Barometer
      Clock losing ()""26                                 Great weight above.                                                                                     29 76.
      on mean time.
                           m.
                                                               o
      June    68-7                                  -22
                                           1 1
                                                                                                                                                            03      86058-55
                           9 1
                                                               1-13              503                    501 86056 47                                  2
      20th.                                   04                                                            S6056 47                                                S6057 9S
                                                              0-96               503                    501                                            1-51
                           IS               0-88                                                                                                                    86058-87
                                                              0-80               505                    503 H6057-82                                        05
                           26               0-73
                                                              0-68               504                    502 86057-16                                  0 1   75      86057 91
              68      7    34               063
                                                                                                                                                      Mean 86058-33
                                                                                                                                                      Clock  - 0-26
              68-7         mean                                                                                                                                     86058-07
                                                              Great weight below.
              68:4         22         4             19                                                                                                 208           86059-24
                                          0 0 1 1
                                                               1-13             504                    502               86057-16
                           30    28                 07                                                                                                 1-63          86058-79
                                                               1-00             504                    502               86057 16
                           38    52                 94
                                                                                                       502               86057-16                           38       86058-54
                                                              0      99         504                                                                   I
                           47     16                86                                                                                                 1-10          86058-92
                                                              0-82              505                    503               86057-82
              68-5         55    41         0-78
                                                                                                                                                      Mean 86058-87
                                                                                                                                                      Clock — 0-26
                                                                                                                                                     Temp. —     09                 0
              68-5

368 An Account                of Experiments for              deteivni?iing the Length            of
    The number of vibrations being now in both positions suffi
ciently near each other, and in defect, the second Weight was se
cured in its place.
                                 —— .—
    SlicTer  '.'3 divisions.
                                                                                      Barometer
    Clock losing 0''-30                  Great weight above.                             2976
   on mean time.
                6.    Time of Arc o(                 Interv    = S              Corr.
                       coinci- ivibra- 2
                                                            -II
                                                 Si  in se
                                                 ¦                             for arc -9.2   a s
                h       dence.     tion. a           conds                               >
              a        m.     s.    0                                            s.
   June       68-"    48     25    1-23      O
                                              1.1.'   504     502 86057-16       2-08    86059 24
   20th.              56     49    1 03
                                             0 97     506      501 86058 49      1-54    S6060 03
                         5   15    0 91
                                             0-82     507     505 86059.16       1.0     86060-26
                       13   42     0 73
                                             0-6^    506      504 86053-49      0 75    86059 ».
             6S-7     22    08     0-64
                                                                                Mean 86059-69,
                                                                               Clock — 0-33
            68.7      mean                                                              86059 39
      A                                  Great weight below.
             68'8     31    17     1 22
                                   110
                                             H6      504      502   86057 16    2-20    86059 36
                      39    41
                                             1-04    505      503   86057- 82    1-76   86059 58
                      48      6   0 99
                                            0-9-1    506      504   86058- 49    1-44   86059 93
                     56     32    0 90
                                            0 84     506     504    36058-49    115     860*9-64
             68 -9      4   58    0 79
                                                                                Mean 86059 63
                                                                                Clock     — 0-30
                                                                               Temp.      + 0-09
            6S-9      mean                                                              8605942
   Slider 23 divisions.
                                                                                      Barometer
  Clock losing 0"-20                    Great weight above.
                                                                                         29-86.
  on mean time.
  June      71 2     54      8    1-23   '
                                           1-13     o03     501 186056- 47     2-08     86058-55
  21st.                2   31     1-03
                                           (1.96    502     ,r>oo 86055 78
                                                                  1             1-15   80056 93
                     10    53    0-89
                                           0 81     504     .502 186057- 16    1 07    86058 23
                      19    17   0-73
                                           0 6J-    504     502 {36057-16      0-75    «6057-9l
            71-3     27    41    063
                                                                              Mean 36057-90
                                                                              Clock ~ 0-20
            71-3     mean
                                                                                        8605-70
     B                                  Great weight below.
            710      12    52     1-20
                                            1-14    503     501    56056-47    2-12    36058-59
                     21    15     1 08
                                            1 02    503     501    36o.,>6-i7  170     ^6058-17
                     29    38    0-97
                                           0 9i     503     501    36056- 47   1-:58   36057- 85
                    31       1   0-88
                                           0-83     504     !>02 36057- 16     1-13    36058- 29
            71")    46     25    0-79
                                                                              Mean 3605S-22
                                                                              Clock — 0 20
                                                                              Temp- — 0-09
            71M     mean                                                               86057-93

the Pendulum vibrating Seconds in the Latitude                      of London. 369
  Slider 2:1 divisions.                                                        _
  Clock losin,, 0«-2(,
  on mean time.
                                 Great weight aL,ove,                          *252*
                                                                                   J
           o.
           E
           6
                 l'ime of Arc ot
                  coinci    vibra
                                     « 0
                                           Interv.
                                             in se      ji S*J;          Corr.    s e*    5
                  dence.    tion.           conds. a-p   >   -
                                                         jS .2 a g for arc.
                                                               — J3
                                                                      ,
         o       m.     s.  o
  June           36                  0                                   s.
          71-4           6   1-22
                                      1-12  502     500 86055- 78        2-05    8G057-S3
  21st.          44    25   1-03
                                     0-95    503    501 86056- 47        1-48    86057-95
                 52    51   0-87
                                     0-80   503     501 86056-47         1-04    86057- 51
                    1   14  0-73
                                     0-67   506     504 86058-49         0-73    86059-22
          71-4     9   40   0-62
                                                                                   -
                                                                        Mean 86058- 13
                                                                        Clock         0-20
          71-4   mean
                                                                                  86057-93
     c                           Great weight beloiv.
          71-5    20    24   1-19
                                    1-13    502    500 86055- 78         2-08     86057-86
                 28     46   1-07
                                     1-00   503    501 86056- 47          1-63    8605S-10
                 37       9  0-94
                 +5     32  0-85
                                    0-89    503    501  8'056-47         1-29     86057-76
                                    0-81    503    501  86056-47         1-07    86057-54
          71-6 I 53    55   0-78
                                                                        Mean 86057-81
                                                                        Clock — 0-20
                                                                        Temp + 0-09
          71-6   mean                                                            86057-70
  Slider 25 divisions.
  Ciock gaining o» so                                                                    er
  on mean time.
                               Great weight   3    above.                         -j-jo.
                                                                               B^?mf
  June    73-0     9      8  1-29
                                     1-12   500     498 86054- 40 1 2-05         86056-45
  25rd           17    28    1 02
                                     0-94   501    499 86055- 09| 1-44           86056-53
                 25    49   0-87
                                    0-80    501    499 86055-09 | 1-04           86056-13
                 34     10  074
                                    0-68    501    499 86055-09j 0-75            86055- 55
         73-1    42    31   0-63
                                                        86055-09
                                                                        Mean     86056- 24
                                                                    | Clock        + 0-30
         73-1     mean.                                                          86056-54
    D                             Great weight below.
                 27   33    1-21
                                    1-15    501    499  86055-09        2-16     86057-25
                 35   54    1-09
                 44
                                    1-04    501    499  86055-09         1-76    86056-85
                       15   0-99
                                   0-94     501    499  86055-09        1-44     86056-53
                 52    36   0-89
                                   0-84     502    500  86055-78        1-15     86 056-93
         72-f      0   58   0-79
                                                                        Mean 86056-89
                                                                        Clock      — 0-30
                                                                      Temp. — 0-22
         72-f      mean                                                          89056-97
   Vol. 52. No. 217. Nov. 18*8.                               A  a                       The

370   New Apparatus                 for    impregnating Liquids with Gas.
   The pendulum was now taken down to remeasure the distance
between the knife edges, in order to ascertain whether or not they
had suffered from use.
   The pieces A, a, B and b, being applied as before, the follow
ing measurements were taken.
                Distance from              A to a, 329•06 divisions.
                                      B to b, 366-97.
                      '   Readings of the Micrometer.                        Divisions
              Date.
                          A   to a.        B to   b.           Scale.        +39-4 in.
                                                           |
                              9-7            390               630-0          953-66
              June            70            37-3               C30-0          955-86
              25th.        10-0             36-5               630-7          955-46
             The pieces made to change                         places.
              26th.        590              87-0               6800           955-01
                           59-0             84-0               680-3          956-81
                           51-0             75-0               671-0          955-51
                           430              67-7               664-5          957-16
                           41-5             68-0'      <       662-5          955-76
                                          Mean of the whole              |   955-65
  Hence  the distance between the knife edges is 39'4 inches
4-955'65 divisions of the micrometer.
                        [To be continued.]
  LVIII.     Description            of    a new Apparatus                for impregnating
           Liquids with Gases.                    By A Correspondent.
                                      To   Mr. Tilhch.
Sir, — Most       chemists have to lament the extreme fragility of
Wolfe's apparatus ; and setting aside its expense, it appears to
me to be very defective, as the surface of the gas which is ex
posed to the absorbing fluid is very small, on account of its being
suffered to pass through so small a depth of fluid in large bubbles;
when, on the contrary, it ought to be divided, and to pass through
as great a depth of fluid as possible.    To effect this, the ends of
the retort, a fig. 6, (Plate III.) of the long conducting tube                               l>,
should be closed, and perforated with a number of very small
holes *. By this means almost every atom of gas          brought into            is
contact  with  the fluid in ascending  the long  cylindrical vessel c;
which might easily    be made  to turn  on its axis  with a small de
gree of eccentricity, which upon   the  whole  would  produce   much                     a
greater effect than      had passed through half dozen of Wolfe's
                          if  it                                             a
bottles.
                * Or perforated
                                jilatina caps might be fixed on.
                                                                                         Might

                       On purifying Coal- Gas.                        371
    Might not the tedious process of forming the red oxide of mer
cury be considerably accelerated, by sending a minutely divided
stream of air through it in the same manner from a gasometer of
condensation ? The same holds good with cupellation, and many
other chemical processes.
    I would recommend to those who are near a gas establishment,
to provide themselves with what may be called a gas furnace. It
consists of a thin metallic tube d, open at the top but closed at
both ends, and bent in the form of a cornu ammonis, with about
half an inch distance between the whirls to admit a free access of
 air from beneath. By this means a degree of heat may be pro
duced, which will combine the power of a table furnace with the
uniformity and elegance of an Argand lamp, but without the
incumbrance or the trouble of either.       I am
                                          Your humble servant,
                                                                   G. D.
LIX,.     On purifying Coal-Gas,       and increasing the Quantity
    producedfrom a given Weight       of Coals. By Mr. G. Lowe.
                           To   Mr.   Tilloch.
Sir, — The Number           for this month of your excellent Maga
 zine having just arrived, I have read with pleasure Mr. Parker's
letter on the subject of purifying coal-gas.         At a time like the
 present,  when   the  sources of  real light  are so highly taxed, and
the materials of artificial light so dearly bought, we cannot be
surprised that so many should be turning their attention to this
excellent and too long neglected medium, in order to render the
procuring of it so cheap that the humble cottage may not be de
barred of its benefits ; and so pure, that even the palace mav
show forth its excellence.      It is under this consideration that I
feel less surprise at finding my own plans of purifying gas an
ticipated in the experience of Mr. Parker: with a difference
only in the method of application ; for although we both agree
in passing the gas through a high temperature, yet the very dif
ferent methods which we have hit upon of sopresenting        it,
                                                               will fully
satisfy us  both  as to our originality  of the same  idea. Mr.  Parker
uses three ignited tubes without any other oxidizeable surface.       I
use only one, into which various oxidizeable surfaces are intro
duced. The experiments which led me to this method were made
il  March last, in which experiments the hope of so constructing
a  stove as to give off both light and heat, of simplicity of con
struction and with purity of gas, was the desirable object which
stimulated my proceedings   ;    in the gaining of which, am happy
                                                          I
to sav, I  fully succeeded.
                                  Aa2                                 To

 372                   On  purifying Coal- Gas.
    To give your readers    a perfect idea of my stove, which might
 not unaptly be called a Thermophotogen, would be impossible
 without a plate, for which there is not now time, as I could wish
 this notice of Mr. Parker's paper to appear in your next number.
— Suffice   it to say, that the body of the stove is an upright cy
 linder of east iron, standing four feet high, rather conical, being
 ten inches diameter inside at the top, and twelve inches at the
 bottom. For the sake of portableness, and to ensure against ex
 pansion, it is divided into three separate pieces. First, an ashpit
 eight inches deep, having a door in its side to regulate the
 draught : second, the part one foot eight inches high contain
 ing the door through which fuel is introduced, and opposite
 to which is an aperture to receive an iron cylinder or gun-barrel :
 and thirdlv, the part in which at its side is placed the flue. The
parts fit in proper order one upon another, having the joints co
vered by a small plinth ; the top is open, through which is placed
a cylindrical retort of two feet six inches long, and seven inches
 diameter, its flanch forming a top to the stove and covering the
 flue, which the difference of the diameter of the retort and that
of the interior of the stove allows. . It is evident, that if the body •
of the stove be now inclosed with a light sheet iron carcase,
leaving a hot air flue all round except at. the doors, the heat
given off by the stove may be conveyed into apartments ; at the
same time that its internal heat is liberating the gas in the retort.
The cap of the retort is on the simplest construction, like that
of the common culinary digester, only fitted with a plug and
socket by which the gas is conveyed through a cylinder contain
ing iron turnings, &c. after which it passes through lime-water
or not at pleasure.     This method requires very little fuel, serves
two purposes,    and  makes  very pure gas.    The scale upon which
the foregoing apparatus is constructed may be said to be but
small, though amply large enough for the majority of families ;
yet it proves sufficiently that its principle is calculated to obtain
everv advantage reasonably to be hoped for.        First, a very great
increase of gas is obtained from a given quantity of coal, in com
parison to the old method, in which the essential oil, the tar, and
the water of crystallization    are all condensed prior to washing :
but by passing through iron turnings, or any oxidizeable surfaces,
the two first are nearly all converted into gas, and come even
with the hydrogen of the latter, which has been liberated at the
expense of the iron turnings. — It is evident, the great increase
arises infinitely more from the decomposition of the water than
of the tar, which I am afraid Mr. Parker's tubes alone after &
short time will fail to do.    Secondly, the nuisance creating sul
phuretted hydrogen is perfectly decomposed, as well as the car
bonic acid and ammoniacal gases.          And last, though not least
                                                                    in

                   Notices respecting New Books.                  373
in consideration, it materially lessens the expense in setting up, as
 well as in wear and tear, for it does not require the retort to be
 heated any thing near so hot. We must all agree with Mr. Par
ker, that the subject of these decompositions is worthy a strict
examination,    and which indeed they have had in their uncom-
bined state by many of the first chemists of the dav, but not in
 combination as in coal-gas.        That the sulphuretted hydrogen
 may   be decomposed    by  the mere   matter of heat, and converted
 into carburetted hydrogen by passing it over ignited charcoal, is
 well known ; and that, the carbonic acid is converted into carbo
 nic oxide by giving a portion of its oxygen to the iron, one may
suppose ; but how the ammoniacal gas, which, according to The-
 nard, is decomposed without the iron receiving any addition, or
 the volume of the gas being in the least altered, remains to be
explained. In a future Number of your Magazine, if you should
 think it worthy a place, I perhaps shall be able to send you an
account of the same principle of purifying, still further simplified,
as applicable to horizontal retorts ; in which the tube containing
the iron turnings, scraps of tin, charcoal, &c. is placed within the
body of the retort.      We are now setting one up, but it is not in
sufficient progress to describe. Pardon me the length of this hasty
letter, and believe me          Your well wisher,
   Derby, Nov. 14, 1818.                                  G. LoWJJ.
               LX.    Notices respecting New     Booh.
In   spring last Dr. Watt of Glasgow published a Prospectus, ac
companied with a specimen, of a work to be entitled " Biblio-
iheca Britannica : or a General Index to the Literature of
Great Britain aud Ireland, ancient and modern, with such Fo
reign Works as have been translated into English, or printed in
the British Dominions : including also a copious selection from
the writings of the most celebrated authors of all ages and na
tions. In Two Parts.       In the firsts the authors are arranged al
phabetically, and of each, as far as possible, a short biographical
notice is given ; to' which is subjoined a correct list of his works,
their various editions, sizes, prices, &c, and in many instances
the character of the work.       In the second, the subiects are ar-
ranged alphabetically ; and, under each, the works, and princi
                                                                      "
pal parts of works, treating of that subject are arranged in chro-
nological order.      This part also includes all the anonymous
works which have appeared in this country, inserted according .
to their respective subjects and dates." A first part of this work
is now in the press, and will be published in February.         This,
consisting of 35 sheets, or 2S0 pages, is calculated to be about
                                 Aa 3                             one

374                   Notices respecting New Books.
 one-sixth of the whole, which, when completed, will form two
 quarto volumes nearly of the size of Johnson's Dictionary.
     Mr. Joseph Conolly, Author of the Telegraphic Dictionary,
 and Essay on Universal Telegraphic Communication, for which
 he received the Gold and Silver Medals from the Society of Arts,
 has issued the Prospectus of a new work, to be entitled " The
 Telegraphist's Vade Mecum."
     This work is to comprise — the English Language, with sen
 tences alphabetically arranged under their respective final words,
 thereby obviating the complexity so much complained of by the
 most experienced officers and telegraphists of the present day ;
 as also the Evolutionary Compass and Telegraphic Codes, cal
 culated for the various symbols used in Europe.         Any word or.
sentence, from an arrangement of twenty-six thousand, is given
 by the two-armed Semaphore, as over the Admiralty, in two ex
 hibitions, without a stop-s:gnal to divide the words.      The new
 mode of working two numeral tables at every exhibition is fully
 explained, illustrated with plates of the changes exemplifying the
 different secret keys for deciphering official messages. The num
 ber of flags is twenty-four, and two pendants, being nine under
the number used by any ship in the Navy. Any word or sentence,
from twenty-six thousand, is given in one exhibition, on one
 mast, without a class flag ; and no signal ever exceeds three flags
 and a pendant.     The spelling power gives a syllable or word at
one exhibition. A message, or any subject, can be extracted ver
batim from this arrangement, in large portions, without the te
dious operation of spelling.
    This plan of extracting and deciphering messages will afford
a pleasing study to the Telegraphist — a study hitherto rendered
difficult through want of simplicity, scope, and method.
    The new mode of working two numeral tables at every exhi
bition of Semaphoric signals, and a new arrangement of words
and sentences, are to be also prominent features of this work.
    R. Ackermann has in the press " High Quarrel with the
Pope." A correspondence between the court of Rome and Ba
ron von Wessenberg, Bishop of Constance, in which the Bishop
disputes the authority of the Pope in Germany; with an ac
count of his endeavours, and every probability of success, to
effect a general reformation in the German Catholic Church.
Demy 8vo.
   Observations on Ackermann's Patent Moveable Axles to Four-
wheeled Carriages, containing an engraved elevation of the car
riage, with plans and sections, conveying accurate ideas of this
superior improvement.
                                                             A com-

                         Purifying of CoaUGas,                      375
     A complete History of Lithography, from its Origin down to
 the present Time, by the Inventor, Alois Senefelder; containing;
 clear and explicit instructions in all its branches ; accompanied-,
 by illustrative specimens of this art.     Demy 4to. hot-pressed.
     The Cabinet of Arts, being a new and universal Drawing-
 book, forming a complete system of drawing and painting in all
 its branches, etching, engraving, perspective, projection, and
 surveying, with all their various and appendent parts, containing
 the whole theory and practice of the fine arts in general, from the
 first elements to the most finished principles ; displaying in the
 most familiar manner the whole rudiments of imitation, design,
 disposition and invention.      Illustrated with upwards of 130 ele
 gant engravings : to which is added an Appendix, containing se
 veral curious and useful miscellaneous articles.       By T. Hudson
  (Author   of the  Accomplished     Tutor)  and J.  Dougall.      This
 valuable work re- appears as a second edition, with additions, in
 which many new plates will be introduced.        It will be comprised
 in 30 monthly numbers, each containing four plates, three plain
 and one in colours, and 12 pages of letter-press.       No. I. will be
 published on the 1st of January next, and be continued monthlv
 until completed.       The whole will form two handsome quarto
volumes.       Directions for order and arrangement will be given in
the last number.
     Preparing for publication, — Observations on Inflammation of
the mucous Membrane of the Respiration Organs ; illustrative
of the pathology and treatment of bronchial inflammation,
croup, hooping-cough, measles, catarrh, and those affections re
sembling pulmonary consumption, &c. exemplified by cases,
dissections, and coloured engravings of the morbid appearances.
 By Thomas Alcock, Surgeon.                         ,
           LXI.   Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                       PURIFYING    OF COAL-GAS.
In    our last we inserted a communication from Mr. S. Parker
of Liverpool on this subject, and in our presentnumberis one from
Mr. G. Lowe of Derby in reference to Mr. Parker's. We now
subjoin the method of purifying coal-gas, for which Mr. G. H.
Palmer of Regent-street in the city of Westminster lately ob
tained a patent ; and which in principle seems to coincide with
Mr. Parker's ; for we conceive the effect in Mr. Parker's pro
cess to be produced by the oxidation of the ignited iron tubes,
                                A a 4                          through

376         Purifying of Coal-Gas. — Electrical Experiments.
through which he passes the gas.    We have, however,          no idea
that the one was copied from the other.
             Extract from Mr. G. Palmer's Specification.
     " The gas may be made by any of the usual processes, and is
to   be conveyed in pipes to a condenser or refrigeratorv, to deprive
it of its tar, ammoniacal liquor, and condensible ingredients.
From thence it is to be conveyed to one of my purifiers, which
consists of a vessel of any form, and made of cast iron or any
other material which will stand the action of heat. This purifier
is to be kept moderately red hot while in action ; to accomplish
which, it maybe set in. the same furnace as the retorts, jot heated
by a separate fire (which will be governed by the nature and ex
tent of the concern) so as to be visibly red by day-light. It must
be understood that I mention this temperature as being sufficient,
although a higher one will not be detrimental to the process, but
will destroy the purifying vessel more rapidly.
   "This purifying vessel is to be nearly filled with the fragments
or refuse clippings of sheet iron, tinned iron plates, or any oxide
-of iron at a minimum of oxidation, such as common clay or ar
gillaceous iron ore, or finery cinders, or black oxide of iroii ; and
when so filled and heated the gas must pass through         it,which
will effect partial decomposition of the sulphuretted hydrogen,
               a
 to complete which       must pass into a box or cistern of cold
                            it
 water.    The pipe which conveys the gas into the box or cistern
 should just dip into the water, and a pipe at the top of the cis
 tern must communicate with the gasometer, into which the gas
 will flow perfectly pure, and can then be distributed and burnt
 as usual.    The operation of this method of purification must be
 obvious to those who are acquainted with chemistry; for    it will be
 readily observed, that the sulphuretted hydrogen contained        the
                                                                  in
 gas will be decomposed, by the action of heat and the substances
 used, into hydrogen and sulphuric acid, whilst at the same time
  no sulphureous acid gas can escape the agents to which the crude
 gas   is   exposed."                        .
                   ELECTRICAL EXPERIMENTS.
      Bronzed tube. Take     glass tube of the height of the con
                                     a
 ductor and fix    on and in
                    it           stand.  Coat about three-fourths
                                         a
 of the upper part of the inside of with metal (the easiest me
                                                 it
 thod   is   by
            inserting pewter shavings), and fix      cap and ball on
                                                      a
 the top.   Then varnish one half of the outside from the top to
 the bottom, and, when nearly dry, apply, with pencil, a coat of
                                                      a
 bronze (not the sulphuretted oxide of tin).       Place  itnear the
 conductor, and      beautiful ramified spark will pass the whole
                        a
 length of the tube.
    Bronzed plate. On       plate of glass twelve inches in diameter
                                 a
                                                                   paste

                 Lizard. — Fossil Tree. — Fossil Plants.                377
paste a circular piece of tin foil about ten inches in diameter.
On the other side fix a narrow circle of tin foil to correspond with
the outside of the opposite coating : cover the intermediate space
with a regular coating of bronze, which is not required to be very
thickly laid on ; place it on a pedestal, and connect the tin foil
coating with the ground and the insulated ball.             Now charge it
by means of a bent wire fixed on the end of the conductor and
touching the centre of the bronzed coating : then move the ball
to the conductor, and the whole surface will be covered with the
most beautiful ramifications diverging from the centre to the cir
cumference.
    Lichtenberg ^figures may be formed on a paper tea-tray.
They take quite a different character, but more beautiful.             Per
haps they might be fixed by warming the japan.                 Proteus.
LIVE LIZARD FOUND IMBEDDED IN A SEAM                    OF COAL.    FOSSIL
                           TREE. — FOSSIL PLANTS.
                                                 Wakefield, Nov. /, 1818.
    Sir, — The     following particulars   respecting a live lizard found
imbedded in a seam of coal at Mr. Fenton's colliery about two
miles from this town, maybe interesting to yourself and readers.
    This animal, preserved in spirits, is now in the possession of Mr.
James Scholes, engineer to that colliery.           It is about five inches
long   ; its  back   of  a drawn   brown  color, and   appears rough and
scaly ;   its  sides   of  a  lighter colour,  and  spotted with yellow ;
the bellv yellow streaked with bands          of  the same colour as the
back. Mr. S. related to me the following circumstances of its being
found. — In August last they were sinking a new pit or shaft, and
 after passing through measures of stone, grey bind, blue stone,
 and some thin beds of coal, to the depth of 150 yards, they came
 upon that intended to be worked, which is about four feet thick.
 When they had excavated about three inches of it,'one of the
 miners (as he supposed) struck his pick or mattock into a crevice,
 and shattered the coal around into small pieces : he then disco
 vered the animal in question, and immediately carried it up to
 Mr. S. — It continued very brisk and lively for about ten minutes,
 then drooped and died.           Mr. S. went down the pit to examine
 the part where it might be supposed to be lodged, but he could
 not collect any fragments to enable him to ascertain its precise
 bed.
     It may be proper to mention, that in sinking these pits they
 find, in particular strata, impressions of what Mr. S. calls ferns
 and other vegetables; and at upwards of 100 yards from the sur
 face, they meet with a black shale one foot thick, full of muscle-
 shells compressed and flattened by the superincumbent pressure.
                                                                      About

 378             Solution  of Biquadratic Equations.
 About four inches above the coal in which the animal was found,
 numbers of muscle-shells in a fossil state lie scattered in a loose
 grey earth.
     At a considerably higher level, and in an alluvial soil, near this
 town, a mass of these shells is found at twelve yards from the sur
 face, imbedded in a stratum of black limestone about twelve
 inches thick, which takes a good polish. This bed or baud of
 fossil muscles is found in all the coal mines in this neighbour
  hood, but generally connected with iron ore.
     Mr. Scholes mentioned another circumstance worthy of record,
 which occurred some years ago under his own eye at the Stanley
  colliery two miles NE of this town.    In sinking a pit to the depth
 of 86 yards, they came to a bed of coal 2 feet 6 inches thick, be
 neath which^ i        *r further progress, they found what they
 supposed to be -yidt^d tree, or rather plant, having no branches,
 standing uprig\> ft&ut rather inclining to the east.       It was six
 inches diameter at the top ; but as they sunk down, it increased
 to twelve inches, and at the depth of 42 feet seemed to branch out
 roots to another bed of coal six feet thick.         The body was a
 grey sandstone, coated round with a black carbonized matter
 one- tenth of an inch, supposed to be its bark.
     Before concluding, I will take this opportunity of communi
 cating to you another remarkable phaenomenon in some measure
 connected with this at Stanley colliery, which is on the NWside
 of the river Calder. On the SE side of this river, and nearly
 in a parallel line, there is a hill about 200 feet above the level of
the river. It consists of an argillaceous sandstone, and a few feet
from the surface there are strong appearances of its having once
been on fire. For many years a quarry has been worked there
for procuring materials for the repair of the roads, for which pur
pose this burnt stone is well adapted.        In this quarry many gi
gantic fossil plants have been found standing upright, as well as
casts and impressions of vegetables unknown to these climates
lying horizontally. Many specimens of these fossil reliquias are
in the possession of Mr. Parkinson, Hoxton Square ; of Mr. Wat
son, of Bakewell, Derbyshire ; and I believe in the collection of
the Geological Society.         I am, Sir,
                                           Your constant reader,
To    Mr. Tilloch.                                             W. S.
              SOLUTION OF BIQUADRATIC EQUATIONS.
    The following solution of the Biquadratic is founded upon Des
Cartes's method of multiplying together two quadratic factors
with indeterminate coefficients.      A modification of his assump
tion presents us with two new and simple formulae of solution,
and places the true principle of his method in a clear light.

                         Arsenic taken without Injury.                                379
   By exterminating the second term, every biquadratic                              may be
reduced to the form
                                     x*—qx1 + rx—s.
   This we assume equal to the product of two quadratic factors
with indeterminate coefficients, a,     y,                 (3,
                   + aX              + — ctx    + y).
                                                y)   X                +
               (x2       /3—       (x1                                fl
This product becomes
                       - -
               x* (a1 2/3)xl + 2ayx +
                                     by
                           actual multiplication
                                               y\                    /31   -
   By equating the terms  of this expression with those of the ori
ginal equation, we obtain three equations for ascertaining the
indeterminates,
                                           a1   —
                                                     2/3
                                                           =   q
                                                 2   ay -z=    r
                                         /31—   yl    =—       S
     If we find these       bymeans of a, we have Des Cartes's solution.
If   we find them       by   means of     we have    /3,
             x=- + ^                 +
                                         w>+         A=*5+
   Here we may observe that the quadratic formula for           though
in appearance a quadratic,         reality and
                                           is   in
                                                algebraically  an equa
tion of higher dimensions.     This method of exhibiting the two
quadratic factors under one form with        mere diversity of signs,
                                                                 a
shows the true principle of Des Cartes's solution, which consists
in preserving the real dimensions of the biquadratic, while
                                                                                      it
                                                                                      is
reduced     jorm to quadratic.
             in                  a      The value of x expresses all
the four roots, + being used as usual to denote that either + or
 — may be arbitrarily taken, while             and         Hdenote that        1-
if  +  be used in the  first case,   —   must  be  used  in the second,
and conversely.
     If
     we find the roots bv means of                             y, we have
                    - — r4+ V? -F=°
                        jl x+ ±££zz?£. =o
                  v
                  x«+ _
                        ~
                  x=     j   +
                                         V ~+~~*r3 + W
                             r                                   +
which expresses        the four roots m a very simple manner.
               ARSENIC TAKEN WITHOUT INJURY.
   The object of this communication is, to diffuse more generally
the opinion, that charcoal    eminently an antidote to arsenic
                                                is                                       :
                                                            from

        3 SO              Arsenic taken without Injury.
        from our knowledge of chemistry we have reason to expect it
        should be, but we ought not to trust to theory without some ex
        perience.
            Mr. R        took last evening, through mistake, a considerable
        quantity of arseniate of potash ; he had previously been visited
        with a severe pain in the head, from uncommon exertion during
        the day, and had taken his supper immediately upon the top of
        the dose of arsenic: some suspicions were now excited, and as
        sistance sent for, which, fortunately, was near.
           Found him with a quick pulse, considerable prostration of
        strength, a sense of heat over the whole body, pricking in the
        limbs, the head-ache gone, a disagreeable dry sensation in the
        throat, and some degree of anxiety, as might be expected.
            Gave twenty-five grains of sulphate of zinc, which produced a
        very little sickness ; after waiting fifteen minutes, gave, at short
        intervals, twelve grains more, together with half an ounce of pul
        verized charcoal, suspended in a teacup of water: no sickness
        produced, but the hei»t and pricking were no longer felt, and the
        pulse became moderate.
           Ordered half an ounce of charcoal and water as before ; a table
        spoonful of which to be given every fifteen minutes: an ounce of
        oL ricini, to be repeated at an interval of four hours, should not
        the first quantity operate ;- and left him for the night.
           Found, this morning, that he has slept comfortably most of the
        night, has taken two ounces of oil, which has operated profusely
        and frequently; has no thirst or sickness at stomach; pulse slow
        and regular ; tongue swoln and pale, but lively at the margin ;
        countenance good, and he will be able to attend to his ordinary
        business shortlv.
i   .       Conclusions. — That the charcoal was the only agent in coun
        teracting the effects of the poison, and was the cause, together
        with the torpor of the stomach, of his not puking from 37 grains
        of white vitriol.
           That the dose of vitriol retained in the system must have pro
        duced an uncommon paroxysm of thirst, had it not been for the
        exhibition of carbon ; and therefore that all metallic oxides must
        be inert, when given with the medicine.
           That with a view of inverting the action of the stomach, ve
        getable emetics, and not mineral, should be resorted to, such as
        oxymel of squills, ipecacuanha, apocynum androsa?mifolium, ly-
        copodium, selago, and, above all, the distilled water of ranun
        culus flammula, the operation of which is said by Dr. Withering
        (a respectable writer) to be immediate.
           Note. — There are two varieties of r. flammula, but both fre
        quent the samO soil, and consequently possess the same proper
        ties.   The virtues of this plant (r.   f.)ought to be investigated
                                                                          ;
                                                                          the

                          Neio Researches     on   Heat.                         381
the sensible qualities are such as to deserve attention ; and the
 name of Dr. Withering ought to be sufficient to give it a place
in the materia medica.
                        NEW RESEARCHES ON HEAT.
    MM. Dulong and Petit have lately given to the world a Me
moir on Heat, which gained.the prize medal for 1 S 1 8, of the Aca
demy of Sciences. The title of the paper
                                                     " On the Measure of
                                                    is,
Temperatures, and on the Laws of the Communication of Heat."
    Law        If  the cooling of body placed in a vacuum termi
          a 1.
                                    a
nated    by     medium absolutely deprived of heat, or of the power
of radiating, cduld be observed, the velocity of cooling- would de
crease in  a    geometrical progression, whilst the temperature                   di
minished in an arithmetical progression.
   2. For the same temperature of the boundary of the vacuum
in which      a body      placed, the velocity of cooling for the excess
                         is
of temperature, in arithmetical progression, will decrease, as the
terms of geometrical progression diminished by constant numa
ber.    The ratio of this geometrical progression               the same for
                                                               is
all bodies, and equal to 1-0077.
   3. The velocity of cooling in         avacuum for the same excess of
temperature increases in        a  geometrical progression, the tempe
rature of the surrounding body increasing in an arithmetical pro
gression.       The ratio of the progression           also 1•0077 for all
                                                      is
bodies.
   4. The velocity of cooling due to the contact of                gas
                                                                    a     en is
tirely independent       of the nature  of the surface   of bodies.
   5. The velocity of cooling due to the contact of a fluid (gas)
varies in a    geometrical progression, the excess of temperature va
rying also in a geometrical progression.            If the ratio of the last
progression be       2, that of the first    2-35
                                             is      whatever the nature
                                                     ;
of the gas, or whatever its force of elasticity. This law may also
be expressed        bysaving, that the quantity of heat abstracted
                                                                                  by
                                                                                  a
gas is  in  all  cases proportional to the excess of the temperature
the body raised to the power of 1.233.
   6. The cooling power of fluid (gas) diminishes in
                                    a                                 geome
                                                                        a
trical progression, when its tention or elasticity diminishes also
in a geometrical progression.            the ratio of this second progres
                                        If
sion be   2, the ratio of the first will be for air 1-366 for hydrogen
                                                                ;
 1•301;    for carbonic acid 1-341       ; for defiant gas 1•415.        This
law may be expressed in the following manner-:
   The cooling power of gas is, other things being equal, propor
tionate to    a  certain power of the pressure. The exponent of this
power, which depends on the nature of the gas,                 for air 0'45
                                                               is                 j
for hydrogen 0-315        ; for carbonic acid 0-517        Jfor defiant gas
0-501.
                                                                            7.   The

382                     Platina. — Cow-Tree.
   7. The cooling power of a gas varies with its temperature ; so
that, if the gas can dilate so as to preserve the same degree of
elasticity, the cooling power will be found diminished by the rare
faction of the gas, just as much as it is increased by its being
heated ; so that ultimately it depends upon its tension alone.
    It may be perceived, from the above propositions, that the law
of cooling, composed of all the preceding laws, must be very com
plicated ; it is not therefore given in common language, but may
be found in a mathematical form in the body of the memoir.
                                 PLATINA.
   A very singular   mass                        been found in South
                            of platinum has lately
America,   and is now deposited in the Royal     Museum at Madrid.
Dn. Ignacio Hurtado is the proprietor of certain lands in the
Quebrada de Apotd, in the province of Notiva, in the govern
ment of Chocd. In this Quebrada is situated his gold mine, called
Condoto. One of his Negro slaves, named Justo, found this
mass of platina in the year 1814 near the gold mine. Dn. Igna
cio, most generously, and full of ardour for the sciences, pre
sented this unequalled specimen to His Most Catholic Majesty,
through his excellency S0r Dn. Pablo Morillo, commander-in-
chief of the Royal Spanish armies in the province of Venezuela,
who transmitted the same, together with other objects of natural
history, belonging to the botanical department, under the Spa
nish naturalist Dn. Jose Mutis, to Europe, through General
Pascual Enrile, who brought it safely to Spain, and forwarded it
to the hands of the King himself by Captain Antonio Van Halen.
Being an unique specimen, his majesty gave it to the Museum.
Its figure is oval, and inclining to convex.     The Spaniards term
it " Pepita," which signifies water-worn, and not in situ.
    Its large diameter is two inches four lines and a half, and its
small diamettr two inches.       Its height is four inches and four
lines.    Its weight is one pound nine ounces and a drachm.       Its
colour is that of native silver. Its surface is rough, and here and
there^potted with yellow iron ochre.        The Negro who found it
suspected that it contained gold : he tried to fracture it ; but he
was only able to make a dent in the metal, which        is,however,
sufficient to show its character.
   To avoid every possible doubt about the mass of platina,        it
should perhaps have been mentioned, that the Spanish Secretary
of State, his excellency Dn. Jose Garcia de Leon and Pizarro,
had taken all the measures to ascertain the fact of its being ge
nuine native platina.          -
                               «:ow-tree.
   M. Humboldt and his companions, in the course of their tra
vels, heard an account of tree which grows in the valleys of
                               a
                                     /                        Aragua,

                       Method of making Salt.                         3 S3
Aragua, the juice of which is a nourishing milk, and which, from
that circumstance, has received the name of the cow-tree.             The
tree in its general aspect resembles the chrysophyllum cainito ;
its leaves are oblong, pointed, leathery, and alternate, marked
with lateral veins projecting downwards ; they are parallel, and
are ten inches long.       When incisions are made into the trunk,
it discharges abundantly a glutinous milk, moderately thick, with
out any acridness, and exhaling an agreeable balsamic odour.
The travellers drank considerable quantities of it without ex
periencing any injurious effects ; its viscidity only rendering it
rather unpleasant. The superintendant of the plantation assured
them that the Negroes acquire flesh during the season in which
the cow-tree yields the greatest quantity of milk. When this fluid
is exposed to the air, perhaps in consequence of the absorption
of the oxygen of the atmosphere, its surface becomes covered with
membranes of a substance that appears to be of a decided animal
nature, yellowish, thready, and of a cheesy consistence.           These
membranes, when separated from the more aqueous part of the
fluid, are almost as elastic as caoutchouc ; but at the same time
they are as much disposed to become putrid as gelatine.               The
natives give the name of cheese to the coagulum, which is sepa-
rated by the contact of the air j in the course of five or six days
it becomes sour. The milk, kept for some time in a corked phial,
had deposited a little coagulum, and still exhaled its balsamic
odour. If the recent juice be mixed with cold water, the coagu
lum is formed in small quantity only ; but the separation of the
viscid membranes occurs when it is placed in contact with nitric
acid.     This remarkable tree seems to be peculiar to the Cordil-
liere du Littoral, especially from Barbula to the lake of Maracabo.
There are likewise some traces of it near the village of San Ma
teo ; and, according to the account of M. Bredmeyer, in the val
ley of Caucagua, three days journey to the east of the Caraccas.
This naturalist has likewise described the vegetable milk of the
cow-tree as possessing an agreeable flavour and an aromatic
odour ; the natives of Caucagua call it the milk-tree.
METHOD       OF MAKING SALT IN THE GREAT LOO-CHOO ISLAND*.
    Near the sea, large   level fields are rolled or beat so as to have
a hard surface.      Over this is strewn a sort of sandy black earth,
forming a coat about a quarter of an inch thick.              Rakes and
other implements are used to make it of a uniform thickness, but
it is not pressed down. During the heat of the day, men are em
ployed to bring water in tubs from the sea, which is sprinkled
over these fields by means of a short scoop.         The heat of the sun
    * Extracted from                 " Account of a
                     Captain Hall's                 Voyage of Discovery to
the West Coast of Corea, and the Great Loo-choo Island.
                                                                        in

3S4             Beet-Root. — Discovery     of Hailyne.
in a short time evaporates the water, and the salt is left in the
sand, which is scraped up and put into raised reservoirs of ma
sonry about six feet by four, and five deep.    When the receiver is
full of the sand, sea water is poured on the top ; and this, in its
way down, carries with it the salt left by the evaporation. When
it runs out below at a small hole, it is a very strong brine ; this
is reduced to salt by being boiled in vessels about three feet wide
and one deep.      The cakes resulting from this operation are an
 inch and a half in thickness.
                     SUGAR OF THE BEET- ROOT.
    The endeavours that were made in France, during the war,
to produce sugar from the beet-root in sufficient quantity to sa
tisfy the demands of the population, were very successful, and it
was procured of excellent quality.       The peace however, by re
opening the ports, and allowing the introduction of the cane-
 sugar,   tended to paralyse that branch of agricultural industrv, for
 which, however, some strong exertions have since been made
 by the philosophers of France.
    The following is given as the statement of the expense and
returns of the manufactory of M. Chaptal ; and if there are no
unstated objections to its introduction, it is difficult to account
 for the preference given to cane-sugar.
    Forty-five French acres were sown with beet-root ; the pro
 duce equalled 700,000Ibs.
                               Charges.                  ,
                                                              francs.
 Sowing, pulling, carriage, and expenses of the manu
    factorv for seventy-nine days of actual work                 7000
 Workmen                         '.                              2075.
 Fuel                                                            4500
Animal charcoal                                                  1100
 Repairs, interest of capital, &c                                4000
                                                      francs 18,075
                                Produce.                         Us.
 Rough sugar of the first crystallization                      29,132
 Sugar obtained by further processes from the molasses         10,960
                                        Total of rough sugar 40,092
    Besides which, there were 158,000 lbs. of refuse, which was
 excellent food for cattle, and a large quantity of exhausted mo
 lasses, which might be converted into spirit.
         DISCOVERY   OF  HAUYNE IN THE ISLAND OF TIREE.
    Hitherto in Scotland the attention of mineralogists has been
 principally directed to the investigation of the structure, relative
 position, and mode of formation of mountain rocks. This branch
 of mineralogy, it must be confessed, is more generally interesting
                                                                  than

                        American Water-Burner.                    38^
than any of the others.         The mind delights more in tracing out
those grander features and relations in the mineral kingdom, ex
hibited in the structure and arrangement of mountainous and al
pine country, than in deciphering the minute, although very in
teresting, connexions observable among simple minerals.            We
have accurate geognostical descriptions of many extensive tracts
of country in Great Britain, but the history of the simple mine
rals contained in the rocks of these districts is but imperfectly
known.       It is therefore with pleasure that we communicate to
our readers the following notice, by the celebrated Professor Pie-
tet of Geneva.
Description of a Mineral nearly resembling Hailyne, found in
   primitive Limestone, in the Island ofTiree, one of the He
    brides.    By Professor L. A. Necker        :
 Colour — Pure skv-blue,       sometimes slightly greenish.
Lvstre — Shining and vitreous.
 Transparency — Translucent.
Fracture— Conchoidal.
 Hardness —Scratches glass.
 Form — Massive and in roundish grains.
    Chemical      Characters. — Before the blow- pipe it becomes
 white and opake, but does not melt. It dissolves in acids ; but
we could not, from the smallness of the quantity, determine if it
formed with theni a jelly.
    Geognostic Situation. — It occurs in very minute grains in
the contemporaneous masses of felspar, mica, sahlite, and au-
gite, which are imbedded in a primitive limestone contained in
 gneiss.
    Geographic Situation. — It occurs in the limestone or marble
 rocks at the farm of Balephetrich in Tiree.
    Observations. — If this mineral, as we suppose to be the case,
 should prove to be the true Hauyne, it will be the first instance
 of its occurring in a primitive district, the varieties hitherto de
scribed having been met with in lavas, basaltes, and rocks thrown
 out by volcanoes.
                       AMERICAN WATER-BURNER.
    An apparatus called the American Water Burner has heen
invented by Mr. Morcy, of New Hampshire, who, after making
 many experiments, and employing various combustible sub
stances, as tar, rosin, oil, &c. to mix with the steam, has
 brought his apparatus to perfection.         The construction is very
simple   :  Tar  is intimately   mixed with steam or vapour of water,
and made to issue, with a force proportional to the pressure of
the steam, from a small orifice, like that in the "jet of a blow-
    Vol. 52. No. 247. Nov. 1818.          B b                    pipe,

  386                  American Water-Burner.
  pipe, and is there fired.    The flame, although the combustible
  substances issue from 'so small an orifice, is as large as that of a
  common smith's forge, and is accompanied with smoke : when
 this flame is directed against the bricks in the back of a fire
 place, they soon become heated to redness : if iron or steel filings
 be thrown into the flame, they burn with a sparkling brilliancy,
 similar to iron wire in oxygen gas.
    A few experiments have been made to ascertain the effect of
 steam on burning bodies, and to learn whether it probably suf
 fered decomposition when issuing, mixed with tar, from the jet
 of the water-burner.
     If a jet of steam, issuing from a small aperture, be thrown
upon burning coal, its brightness is increased, if it be held at
the distance of four or five inches from the pipe through which
the steam passes ; but if it be held nearer, the coal is extin
guished, a circular black spot first appearing where the steam is
thrown upon it. The steam does not appear to be decomposed
in this experiment : the increased brightness of the coal is pro
bably occasioned by a current of atmospheric air produced by the
 steam.
    If the wick of a common oil lamp be raised so as to give off
large columns of smoke, and a jet of steam be thrown into the
flame, its brightness is a little increased, and no smoke' is
thrown off
    If spirits of turpentine be made to burn on a wick, the light
produced is dull and reddish, and a large quantity of thick smoke
is given off ; but, if a jet of steam be thrown into the flame, its
brightness is much increased ; and if the experiment be care
fully conducted, the smoke entirely disappears.
    If vapour of spirits of turpentine be made to issue from a
small orifice, and inflamed, it burns, giving off large quantities of
smoke ; but if a jet of steam be made to unite with the vapour,
the smoke entirely disappears.        The same effect takes place if
the vapour of spirits    of turpentine and of water be made to issue
together from the same orifice : hence the disappearing of the
smoke cannot be supposed to depend on a current of atmospheric
air.
                                          j
    If the flame of a spirit-lamp be brought in contact with a jet
of steam, it disappears, and is extinguished at the points of con
tact, precisely as when exposed to strong blasts of air.
    Masses of iron of various sizes, and heated to various degrees
from redness to bright whiteness, were exposed to a jet of steam :
no flame appeared, as was expected, but the iron was more ra
pidly oxidated where the steam came in contact with it than in
other parts.     It is probable, if the water suffered decomposition

                         Polar Expedition.                      387
in this experiment, and if the hydrogen was inflamed, its flame
might not be observed when contrasted with the heated iron, a
body so much more luminous.
    The operation of the water-burner, then, appears to be simply
 this : — Tar, minutely divided, and intimately mixed with steam,
is inflamed ; the heat of the flame, aided by the affinity for oxy
gen of that portion of carbon which would otherwise pass off in
smoke, decomposes the water, and the carbon and oxygen unite;
the hydrogen of the water, and probably of the tar, expand on
all sides (and hence the flame is very large) to meet the atmo
spheric oxygen ; water is recomposed, and passes off in steam ; a
degree of heat is produced, no doubt, greater than that which is
produced by the combustion of the tar alone ; and this heat is
 equal to that evolved by the combustion of a quantity of carbon
which would otherwise form smoke.
    The invention is ingenious, and may be found very useful in
steam-boat navigation, where it has already been applied. Pro
bably a saving of heat would be produced by condensing the pro
ducts of this combustion, which might be effected to a certain
 degree by an apparatus of simple construction.
                        POLAR EXPEDITION.
    We stated in our last the return of one branch of this expe
dition, under Captain Buchan.       It has been since followed by
the return also of the other ships, the Isabella and Alexander,
under Captain Sir John Ross, after a fruitless attempt to pene
trate through Baffin's Bay into the Northern Pacific Ocean.
Captain Ross is said to have completely succeeded in exploring
every part of Baffin's Bay, and, with the exception of errors in
the latitudes and longitudes, of verifying the statements of that
old and able navigator whose name it bears, and of ascertaining
that no passage exists between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans
through Davis's Straits and Baffin's Bay, the whole being found
to be surrounded bv high land, extending to the north as far as
lat. 77 deg. 55 min. and long. 7(5 deg. W. : and in the 74th
degree of latitude stretching westward as far as 84 deg. W. lon
gitude.    They traced the same the whole way down to the Cape
Walsingham of Davis, which they ascertained to lie in lat. 6(3
deg. and long. 60 deg. From hence they steered for Resolution
Island, and then stood homeward.       They have made many cu
rious observations and discoveries, of which, perhaps, will not be
considered as the least interesting, that of a nation being found
to inhabit the Arctic regions, between the latitudes of 76- and
78 degrees, who thought that the world to the south was all ice j
that generation had succeeded generation of a people who had
never tasted the fruits of the earth, had no idea of a Supreme
                               B  b 2                        Being,

388                     Polar Expedition.
Being, who never had    an enemy,     and whose chiefs had hitherto
supposed themselves monarch* of the universe. There now onlv
remains to be discovered the termination, if it has one, of Mid-
dleton's Repulse Bay, and, a few degrees to the northward of
it, to determine whether Greenland be an island, or joins Ame
rica ; and this might with the greatest ease be done from the
northernmost station of the Hudson's Bay Company in any one
season.
    The following are some additional particulars, which have ap
peared in the public journals, respecting the discoveries made by
this branch of the expedition :
    The Jane, Capt. Young, of Montrose, sailed in company with
the Isabella and Alexander from Lerwick, and learnt from Capt.
Ross the following interesting particulars : " After the last ac
counts from the Expedition, up to the 25th of July, when they
had reached lat. 75 deg. 21 min. and long. 60 deg. 30 min. the
weather cleared, and the variation of the compass increased so
fast, that it became difficult to find out exactly how the ship was
steering. The sea, with the exception of some ice-bergs, being
completely clear of other ice, they reached lat. 16\ deg. when
thev were unexpectedly opposed in their northern progress by
terra Anna.       Here they met with a new race of Esquimaux,
 who, by their astonishment, appeared never to have seen a ship
 before.    At first they were much afraid, and made signs for the
•vessel to fly away, thinking them huge birds of prey that had
descended from the moon to destroy them.         A   few of the na
tives, however, were soon enticed on board, when they expressed
their awe and wonder     by  hugging the masts, and other extrava
gant manifestations     of imploration, as
                                         if  to superior beings; at
other times, on attentively surveying the ships, they laughed most
immoderately.       They were entirely unintelligible to the Esqui
 maux whom Capt. Ross took out with him, although they seem
 to be of the same origin, their physiognomy being similar, but of
 rathera    darker complexion — in their general appearance, lan
guage,    and  manners approaching nearer to the natives of Kams-
 chatka, or the north-eastern extremity of Asia.      Their mode of
 travellingis  on sledges, drawn    bydogs, and some of them were
 seen in this way going northward.       They were in possession of
knives, which,         conjectured, they must have formed from the
                 it
                 is
 iron in its natural state, and which may, perhaps, at some future
 period, become an object of commerce with the natives of these
 hitherto unknown regions.        The weapons thev used for killing
 the smaller species of whales were the horns of the sea unicorn.
 Here then, at the termination of this immense bay, whitsh, till now,
 lias been supposed to communicate with the Polar Basin, an en
 tire new race of human beings has been discovered and the idea
                                                     ;

                         Polar Expedition.                       389
of reaching the Pole, or penetrating into the North Pacific Ocean
by Behring's Straits, through this supposed passage, is for ever
at rest.   The Isabella and Alexander traversed the whole bay,
 having sailed up the eastern, and returned by the western,
shore — thus proving that the whole of that vast and unknown
country, from Cape Farewell to the Cape Walsingham of Davis,
is attached to the continent of America.       After all, the tradi
tionary story,  handed down  among    the southern  Esquimaux, that
there  is a rapid and narrow river to the northward,      which may
communicate to the Polar Basin, is perhaps founded ou reality.
Our navigators, in their progress round this dreary bay, saw nu
merous whales ; and due advantage will, no doubt, be taken of
thi* valuable discovery by the fishers next season."
   Extract of a letter from an officer on board the Alexander,
dated Lerwick, November 3, 1818 : — " We got up at the head
of Baffin's bay on the 2()th of August, and found it nothing but
a bay, and that we were not further north at that time than 76.45.
lat. and Ion. 74. W. and found land all round, and quite narrow
from land to land : and on the 2 1st of August we began to come
to the southward, along the west land, which all the way down
we found quite clear of ice.   We found many large inlets, which,
we were in with the ships, but always found laud all round, at
the head of them.     One of these sounds that we entered was in
74 deg. of N. lat. and were up till our longitude was above 80 W.
and we found at the head of the bay the variation as high as 110,
which is about 10 points of the compass."
   The following particulars which we subjoin are from a Hull
paper, but bear evident marks of fabrication about them : for
instance, a savage, who had arrived at the skill and combination
 necessary to make a sledge, and be drawn about in it by dogs,
would very easily be able to conceive that a ship need not neces
sarily be an animal because it moves ; for his reason, however li
mited, must at least have told him, in the process of contriving
his sledge-vehicles, that what contains a human being need not,
as a matter of course, be a stationary machine.
    " The subjoined account of the newly-discovered race of
Esquimaux     has been communicated       by Sir John Ross.      The
discovery ships had been lying adjoining the land, between lat.
76. and 77. fastened to an icebergs for two or three days, and
had just shoved off", when to their great surprise they saw some
persons coming down from the interior, towards the shore, in
sledges drawn by dogs. Our countrymen immediately put back;
but on landing, the natives fled towards the interior.      In order,
if possible, to open a communication with them, the Esquimaux
onj board the expedition set off after them ; and about three miles
over the ice succeeded in this object, when he found he was able
                                Bb3                                to

390                        Sleam-Engines.
to make himself imperfectly understood by them, and also to com
prehend their meaning.        On the first introduction taking place,
the natives inquired whether their visitors came from the Sun or
the Moon ? The Esquimaux told them neither ; hut from a large
country a great distance — from the south.               They said this was
impossible, as there was nothing to the southward but uninha
bitable ice.     It was with great difficulty that they could be
convinced of their error, or led to regard our countrymen in any-
other light than as beings from some other planet.                  On being
taken on board the vessels, they manifested the utmost surprise
at every thing they saw.        They could not for some time be per
suaded that the ships were not animals, and possessed the power
of speaking; and when told that they were of the nature of
houses, intimated that could not be, since the former went back
wards and forwards, while houses were stationary.                   They re
peatedly handled the clothes of the crews, and could not conceive
what sort of skins they were made of; their own covering being
-wholly of that description.         Of bread or grain they knew not
the use ; and on being induced to put some of the former into
their mouths, after masticating it for some time, spat it out again
 as tasteless.    Their own food, it appears, was chiefly fish and
 blubber. They had never seen any timber, and were quite igno
rant of its properties : so that one of them on going aboard, and
seeing a mast laid on the deck, attempted to take it up in his
hands, as if he conceived it to be devoid of weight.               Another of
them, on being taken into the cabin and shown his image in a
mirror, started back with surprise, and could not, until after re
peated assurances and experiments, be convinced that there was
not some person behind the mirror. They appeared to have no
idea of a God, or of a future state ; nor do they seem, from what
 we can learn, to have any enemies, but suppose themselves sole
 monarchs of the universe."                                                   .
                    STEAM ENGINES JN CORNWALL.
   From Messrs. Leaus' Report for October 1818, it appears that
the following was the work performed during that month, by the
engines reported, with each bushel of coals.
                             1' 'winds  oj 'water lifted   Loud per sqvare
                          Ifoot    high with each bushel.   inch in cylinder.
25 common engines averaged                22,345,707            various.
Woolf's at Wheal Vor              ..      31,685,292            17 8 lib.
Ditto        Wh. Abraham          ..      40,975,703            16- 8
.Ditto         ditto   ..         ..       21,647,880             67
Wheal Abraham engine              . .     32,265,906            10 9
United Mines ditto                ..       34,283,211           17- 9
Treskirby ditto        ..         ..       38,059,312            11-3
Wheal Chance ditto               5..       31,369,231            \%-%,
                                                                        ROYAL

                          Royal Scotch Thistle.                       391
                       ROYAL SCOTCH THISTLE,
                   i         To  Mr. Tilloch.             October 6, 1818.
     Dear Sir, — Visiting     Dumbarton     Castle in the year 1801, on
 taking leave of Capt. R., he presented me with a few seeds of
 the Royal Scotch Thistle, which grows spontaneously in the
 scanty soil that covers or fills the various crevices of that rock.
 Thin seed had been collected from thistle-tops of the preceding
 year.
     After distributing    a portion  to some friends, I carefully re
 served the remainder, folded up in the original covering, labelled
 and dated, till an opportunity of sowing them to advantage might
 occur. In the abundance of my solicitude, however, to preserve
  this small packet, I had laid it too carefully up, and it never
 again came into my hands till the 4th of June last ; when search
  ing for another object amongst the relics of some other deposits,.
  I was agreeably surprised to find my long-lost Scotch thistle-seed
  make its appearance.       I now set an additional value on this re
 covery, as I conceived it a fair opportunity of ascertaining if
 seeds of this genus of plants might be kept so long without los
 ing their vegetative prmciple, and prepared for sowing them in-
  an open spot of the field, rendered bare by a small quantity, of
  manure having lain till the turf had rotted under it.         The seed
 of the Royal Scotch Thistle was accordingly dropt into the earth
 on the evening of the royal birth-day.         The spot was soon co
 vered with new vegetation ; notwithstanding of which, without
 further culture of either weeding or hoeing, one plant of this
 royal thistle, from seed 18 years old, in the short space of four
  months from the time the dry seed was put into the ground, has
 attained a size and luxuriance perhaps altogether unprecedented
 in these latitudes.     It presents a foliage resplendently beautiful,
 and so close and rich in the defensive, as most aptly to remind all
 who come near it of the very appropriate motto, " Nemo me im-
 pune iacessit."     It completely covers an area in circumference
 exceeding    1 8 feet, rising in the centre to 30 inches without a
 flower shoot, and then spreading in a regular circle round the
 bottom, extending its gosky leaves in close order along the
 ground, bearing down every other inferior weed, and protruding
 its thorny points beyond three feet in every direction from the
 parent stem.      Should the weather continue mild, and this plant
 survive the rude fury of the stormy winter's blast, if ive jnay
judge from its present vigour and strength of vegetation, the
 deepness of its beautiful green, intermixed with its shining sil
very veins, it may be expected, when in flower, to be one of the
greatest and most exuberant native botanical curiosities ever seen
 in this country.     This shows that seeds kept drv, and free from
                                    B b 4                             the

  392     New vegetable Alkali. — Effects of hot Water        on  Flowers.
  the entrenching tusk and destructive grinders of the mite, will
  long retain their living principle, and propagate their kind.
                                I am, &c.               Gavin Inglis.
     Extract from another letter from Mr. Inglis, dated 30th Oc
  tober : " The thistle still continues to thrive, and has attained a
  most incredible size, such as to draw expressions of admiration
  from all (gardeners included) who see it.        I certainly never saw-
 any thing like it of its kind for size, independent of its nonage.
  I will do all in my power to preserve it during the winter."
                         NEW VEGETABLE ALKALI.
     MM.    Pelletier and Caventou have inserted the following note
 in the Annales de Chimie for July. (The note was read to the
 Academy on the 10th August.)
     Whilst analysing the vomica nut, and the bean of St. Ignace,
 they extracted from these two seeds the substance of which they
 owe their action on the animal economy.
     This substance is white, crystalline, and very bitter. It crystal
lizes in the form of quadrangular plates, or in four-sided prisms,
 terminated by an obtuse quadrangular pyramid. It is very slightly
 soluble in water, but very soluble in alcohol.        It is formed, like
most vegetable substances, of oxygen, hydrogen, and charcoal.
 It is most distinguished by its alkaline properties ; and though
like morphium, is essentially different from it. It restores a red
 dened blue colour, and with acids forms neutral salts, soluble in
water, and crystallizable.        With weak nitric acid it forms a ni
trate, but the concentrated acid acts on and decomposes it ; and
forms a solution, at first red, but becoming yellow, and yielding
 oxalic acid.      Its acetate is very soluble, the sulphate less so, and
 crystallizable in rhomboidal plates.
     Thi3 substance acts on animals in a similar manner to the al
 coholic infusion of the nux vomica, but more energetically•
     The class of acid vegetable substances is numerous; on the
 contrary, that of alkaline vegetable substances is confmed to mor
 phium. Nevertheless, M. Vauquelin has noticed the alkaline pro
 perties of a substance obtained by him whilst analysing the daphne
 alpina. The new body will form another genus in the class,
 which may become numerous, and which has first been observed
 by M. Vauquelin.        To recall these facts, and designate the sub
 stances by a name which wi:l avoid circumlocution,             they have
 called it vauqueline.       This name is better than one entirely in
  significant, or that indicates properties which may be found in
  other bodies.
                 EFFECTS OF HOT WATER ON FLOWERS.
     The following fact is deserving of record, as an interesting con
  tribution to what has hitherto been discovered on the subject of
                          ^                                      vegetable

                       Magnetism   as Test for Iron.              393
vegetable     physiology, and as enabling the lovers of flowers to
prolong, for a day, the enjoyment of their short-lived beauty.
Most flowers begin to droop and fade, after being kept during
twenty-four hours in water ; a few may be revived by substituting
fresh water ; but all (the most fugacious, such as the poppy, and
perhaps one or two others, excepted) may be completely restored
by the use of hot water.       For this purpose place the flowers in
scalding water, deep enough to cover about one-third of the
length of the stem ; by the time the water has become cold, the
flowers will have become erect and fresh ; then cut off the coddled
end of the stems, and put them into cold water.
              MAGNETISM APPLIED AS A TEST FOR IRON.
    The third Number of the New Series of the Annales       des Mines
contains a paper of M. Haiiy on the means of detecting iron in
mineral or other substances by magnetism.             Its presence is
ascertained by the attraction of the substance, either immediately
or after having been heated in the flame of a taper, on the mag
netic needle ; but in order to make the effect more sensible and
evident, M. Haiiy has taken advantage of the combined forces of
the magnetism of the earth and of a bar magnet acting simulta
neously on the needle.
    The needle should be of excellent steel, and highly magnetic,
its cap should be made of agate or rock crystal, and the point on
which it moves very fine. If such a needle be left to itself it will
stand parallel to the magnetic meridian, in consequence of the
forces exerted on it by the magnetic poles of the earth ; and if
from any cause the needle is deflected from this line, the force
 exerted upon it to bring it back to its first position will be as the
sine of the angle which the needle makes with the magnetic me
ridian.      The power, therefore, which tends to return the needle
 to its first position, increases until it has passed through a quar
ter of a circle, and then decreases again ; but the increase is in a
 decreasing ratio, and the decrease is in the increasing ratio ; and
 supposing the needle to be moved through 90° by nine succes
 sive additions of force, it would require the greatest addition to
 move it from 0 to 10J, and the least to move it from 80 to 90° ;
 and then if the power which moved it from 80 to 90° carry it
 over that point, it would be more than sufficient to make it tra
 verse the next quadrant, because the forces exerted by the earth's
 magnetism continually decrease.
     In order to take advantage of this circumstance, let the needle
 be influenced only by the earth's magnetism, it will stand paral
 lel to the magnetic meridian ; then if the south pole of a bar
 magnet be approached towards the similar pole of the needle,
 the bar being in a line with the needle, a repulsion will take
                                                                place,

394                           Earlhquake.
place, and the needle will deviate until the repelling power.of
the bar, and the attractice force of the earth on it, are equal to
each other.     This may have set the needle at an angle of 30°
with its meridian ; then, by approximating the bar, the effect be
longing to it will be increased, and the direction of the needle
will become more oblique. By adjusting the bar in this way, the
needle may be placed and retained in a position very nearly at
right angles with its first direction; and then, as the power of the
earth on the needle increases but very little from the 80" or 85°
to 90°, and afterwards diminishes, a small force will make it pass
the 90°, and once beyond that point it will continue to move un
til its position is completely reversed.
    The time of applying a mineral or other substance supposed
to contain iron to the needle, is when it is nearly at right angles
with the magnetic meridian ; because an effect will be produced
there by a force many times smaller than that necessary to pro
duce a similar effect on a needle uninfluenced, except by the
earth's magnetism.
   M. Haiiy found that in this way effects were produced on the
needle by bodies that, in common circumstances, appeared to
have no action, as haematite, the carbonate, phosphate, elim
mate, and arseniate of iron, ferriferous carbonate of lime, garnet,
peridot, &c. ; and he observes that this extension of character, by
means of double magnetism, may be usefully employed in the de
scription of ferriferous minerals.
                            EARTHQUAKE.
                                                   Inverness, Nov. 12t-
    A smart shock of an earthquake was felt here, and to        a con
 siderable distance round the town, at about twenty minutes pa
twelve on Tuesday night. It was felt with peculiar violence along
the banks of Loch Ness.          The noise seems to have been greater
or less, according to local circumstances : in some places it was
very loud, in others more gentle, but every where a tremulous mo
tion which was for a few seconds communicated to moveables.
The night was uncommonly serene, with clear moonlight ; and
while not a breath of wind was stirring on the surface of the
ground, in the higher regions of the atmosphere the clouds were
driving rapidly from south to north.        Lighter shocks are said to
have been felt at nine in the evening of Tuesday, and at four in
the morning of Wednesday.
    Extract   of'
               a      letter, dated November 11:" We were visited
this morning, at 25 minutes before one, with        a   dreadful earth
quake   :  being at the time sitting reading, about twelve o'clock,
1  felt the house shake slightly, with   a   little noise below, which
put   me  in a little  confusion, as
                                  I    was well aware that every per
son in the house was in bed except myself.           On feeling this I
    (                                                            retired

               List of Patents for  neiu Inventions.             395
retired immediately to bed, being well convinced of its cause. I
expected another shock, and my expectations were very soon re
 alized; for in half an hour after another terrible shock shifted my
 head on the pillow several inches. The noise resembled thunder,
or the tumbling of all the furniture in the house ; all our bells
were set a-ringing.     As 1 was perfectly collected at the time, I
endeavoured to ascertain its duration, and counted one, two,
three deliberately,     while I felt the motion, which r suppose
would occupy about two or three seconds, during which the at
mosphere was overspread with white clouds, all meeting each
other in a common centre, southward of this place."
             LIST OF PATENTS FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
    To Charles Watt, of Ratcliff-Highway,       Middlesex, surgeon,
for means of gilding and preparing quills and pens by manual
labour and chemical operations so as to render them more.dura-
ble and useful. — Two months allowed for specification. — Dated
,31st October 1818.
    To Nicholas Desforges, of Bucklersbury, London, merchant,
for certain improvements in propelling boats and other vessels.
— 31st Oct. — 6 months.
    To John Bogaerts, of Air-street, Piccadilly, in consequence of
a communication made to him by John Groetares, now residing-
at Brussels, for a method or methods for raising and lowering
water, or canal locks. — 12th Nov. — 6 months.
    To Edward Woolley, of Bilston, Staffordshire, screw manu
facturer, for improvements in the machinery for making wood
screw forgings. — 12th Nov. — (5 months.
    To James Ingledew, of Little College-street, Westminster,
licensed victualler, for means of effecting a saving in the con
sumption of the ordinary articles of fuel by the application of cer
tain well known materials hitherto unused for that purpose. —
 12th Nov. — 6 months.
    To Moses Poole, of Lincoln's Inn, in consequence of a com
munication made to him by Christopher Dihl, a foreigner residing
abroad, for an invention of the application of known mastics or
cements to various purposes, such as modelling statues, making
slabs, raising or impressing figures or other ornamental appear
ances; also the covering of houses, and in any other manner in
 which mastic or cement may or tan be applied. — 12th Nov. —
 6 months.
    To John Grafton, late of London, and now of Edinburgh, en
gineer, for an improved process or method of making carburetted
 hydrogen gas for the purpose of illumination. — 12th Nov. — 6 mo.
    To James Hadden junior of Aberdeen, woollen manufacturer,
 for improvement in preparing, roving and spinning of wool. —
 12th Nov.— C months.                                             To

396                            Meteorology.
   To George James Clark, of Bath, working cutler, for an ap
paratus for the more easily applying the drag to a carriage wheel.
— 12th Nov. — 6 months.
   To William Styles, of Islington, carpenter, for certain im
provements in machinery, for sifting cinders and discharging the
cinders so sifted into a convenient receptacle, which machinery
is applicable to other useful purposes. — 12th Nov. — 2 months.
   To James Fraser, of Long-Acre, county of Middlesex, copper
smith and engineer, for his new and original invention of tunnels
in a steam-boiler; also new flues in the said steam-boiler, or the
furnace connected with its erection, the said steam-boiler to be
for the purposes of lessening the consumption of fuel, the ap
pearance of smoke, and the trouble of attendance. — 12th Nov. —
2 months.
   To Richard Wright, of Tokenhouse-yard, London, engineer,
for certain improvements in the construction of steam-engines,
and the subsequent use of the steam. — 14th Nov. — 6 months.
   To Henry Matthews, of Gretton-place East, Bethnal Green,
Middlesex, for certain improvements applicable to wheeled car
riages or vehicles of different descriptions, calculated to render
them more safe and commodious. — 19th Nov. — 2 months.
   To George Clymer, late of Philadelphia, now of Cornhill, Lon
don, mechanic, for certain improvements on ships' pumps. —
21st Nov. — 6 months.
   To John Chancellor, of Sackville-street, Dublin, watchmaker,
for an improvement in turning the leaves of music books in a sim
ple and effectual manner with or without pedal-work attached.
— 2 1st Nov. — 6 months.
   To Elisha Hayden Collier, late of Boston in the State of Mas
sachusetts, now of Charter House-square,        London, gentleman,
in consequence of a communication made to him by a certain
foreigner now residing abroad, together with certain additions of
his own invention, for an improvement in fire-arms of various de
scriptions, which improvements are also applicable to cannon. —
 24th Nov. — 6 months.
 Meteorological Journal kept at Walthamstow, Essex, from
                  October 15 to November 15,     ISIS.
[Usually between the Hours of Seven and Nine A.M. and the Thermometer
            (a second time) between Twelve and Two P.M.J
 Date. Therm. Barom. Wind.
 October
 15    54   29•91    SE. — Red sunrise ; fine morn; some slight
       66               showers after 8 A.M. ; clouds and sun ; fine
                                                                 day;

                              Meteorology.                           397
Date. Therm. Baroni. Wind.
                      day ; very warm ; slight rain early in the
                      evening; cirrostratus, and very hot.
16 53 29-90         SE — E — SE. — Clear, and beautiful cirro-
      67              stratus; fine day; hot ; at 4| P.M. remark
                      able dark nimbus ; at 9 P.M. moon through
                       clouds; moon in a cirrus at 11 P.M. and
                      bright star-light.
17    53   30-00    NW — SE. — Foggy morn; fine day; hot;
      67              beautiful      cirrus ;   moon-light,  and  cirro-
                      stratus.     ,
IS    56   29-90    SE — E — SE. — Fine clear morn; very white
      60              dew; after 9 A.M. cloudy and dark; fine
                      day   ;   some sunshine ; moon, stars, and cir-
                      rocumuli.
19    60   29-95    NW — E — SE. — Very          hazy morn; fine day;
      61              dark nimbus and moon beams through it.
20   51    29-95    SE. — Gray morn ; very fine day; star-light
      60              at 7 P.M. ; 9{ P.M. no stars visible.
21   37   30-12     E — SE. — Fine sunshine; white dew; very fine
      54              day ; very dark night.
22   48    30-00    E. — Very fine morn ; very fine day ; fine bright
      63              star-light.       Moon last >quarter.
23   42    29-90    SE — NE. — Gray morn ; fine gray day; dark
      54              night.
24    45  3000      NE. — Gray morn, and wind : gray day; and
      50              a little sun about 4 P.M. ; small rain after
                      dark    :  very red sunset.
25   49   30-00     NW — SE. — Sun,         and  cumuli; fine day; star
      59              light uiglit.
26   49   3000      SE. — Gray morn        ; fine hot day; red sunset;
     62               bright star-light night.
27   46   30-10     SE. — Fine sunrise, and white dew and cirro-
      62              stratus; very fine day; star-light.
28    45   30-10    SE — S — SW. — Hazy and sun, and strong
      60              dew; calm ; quite foggy about 10 A.M. ; fine
                      day, and some wind ; star-light.
29    51  30-20     NE— SW. — Hazy, and cirroslrutus ; very fine
      60              day ; dark night.        New moon.
30    47   30-25    NW — SE. — Fine; clear and cirroslratus; fine
      59               day ; wind and cirrostratus ; dark night.
31   52   30-00     S. — Hazy; rain began about 9 A.M., and con
      56              tinued till near 2 P.M. ; sun through clouds
                      at 5 P.M. ; dark night,
                          i
                                                              November

398                           Meteorology.
Date. Therm. Barom. Wind.
November
  1   47   29-90    SW— NVV— SW. — Hazy and cirrostratus;
      57              fine day; sun and clouds; bright star-light
                      at 8 P.M.; ver) dark afterwards.
      49   29-S5    S — SW. — Cirrostratus and clear ; hazy low;
     5?                fine dav ; some rain after 4 P.M.; star
                      light.
      49   29-70    SE. — Clear and cirrostratus ; very fine day ;
      59              sun and wind     ;   star-light.
      47   29-50    E — SE. — Fine morning;              clear and cirro-
      55              stratus;    rain   from   about   11  A.M. to about
                      2 P.M. ; dark night.
      52   29-40    E — SE. — Fine red sun-rise; 7| A.M. rain ;
      58              fine day ; cirrostratus         and wind; cloudy
                      night. Moon first quarter.
      52   29-30   E — SE. — Damp morn, and cloudy; fine day;
      55              slight rain at 7 P.M. ; cloudy night.
      50   29-60    S — SW. — Fine morn ; clear and cirrostratus ;
      55              fine day; windy; fine moon and star-light.
      46   29-SO    NW. — Sun and hazy; very fine day; moon
      54              and hazy.
      48   29-85   NW. — Very hazy morn; fine day; hazy night.
      52
10    45   29-90    NW — NE. — Hazy low;               clear  and cumuli
      51              high ;   rain   at S    A.M. till about    9 P.M'. ;
                      cirrostratus; cirrostratus and wind.
11    47   29'70    E. — Rain and wind ; damp, dark day, and
      53              frequent rain; light but cloudy.
12    42   29•62   E. — Red before sun-rise ; cirrocumuli and
      48              wind; very fine day; windy; moon and cir
                       rostratus.     Full moon.
13    47   29-50   SE. — Very fine;         clear and cirrostratus; re--
      56              markable     fine dav; bright moon and star-
                      light.
14    51   29 60    SE. — Clear and clouds        ; sun and showers and
      58              wind   ; rainy and windy.
15    48   29-40   SW— NW.— Clear and clouds; rain began
      50              after 1 1 A.M. till about 2 P.M. fine after
                      wards ; moonlight and cirrostratus^
    .*   Omitted in last month's Magazine :
                 October 3      Barometer 29-55.
                            4                   29-55.
                                                               METEORO-

                              Meteorology.                            390
          METEOROLOGICAL        JOURNAL KEPT AT         BOSTON,
                             LINCOLNSHIRE. .
     [The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at 1 P.M.]
          Age oi
  1818     the   Thermo   Baro     State of the Weather and Modification
          Moon    meter.  meter.              of the Clouds.
          DAYS.
Oct.   15   15     65-     3000 Cloudy
       16   16    62-      30-05 Rain
       17   17    635      30• 17  Cloudy
       18   18    62-      30-04 Ditto
       19   19    58'      30-05 Ditto
      520  20     60-      30-16 Fine
      SI   21     55-      30-26 Ditto
      22   22     52•      30-10 Cloudy   *
      23   23     51'     30-15 Ditto
      24   24     50-     30-17    Ditto
      25   25     56'     30-20    Ditto — rain A. M.
      26   26     58-5    30-20    Fine
      27   27     60"      30-25   Ditto
      28   28     61-      3020 Cloudy
      29 new      60-      30-37   Ditto
      30 30       59-      30-30   Ditto
      31   31     56-5     30-00   Rain
Nov.    i     1   54.5     30-04   Cloudy
        2     2   57-      29-87   Ditto
        3     3   58'      29-76   Ditto
        4    4    56-      29•55   Ditto
        5     5   56-      29-53   Rain
        6     6   57-      29-54   Ditto
        7     7   53-      2g-78   Cloudy
        8     8   48-5     30-00   Ditto — heavy mist
        9    9    51-      30-07   Fine
      10    10    50-      30-04 Rain.
      11    1 1   485      29-90 Ditto
      12   full   50-      29-75 Fine
       13   13    55-      29-72 Cloudy
      14   14     57-      29-63 Fine
                                                                METEORO-

                               Meteorology.
                     meteorological table,
                  By Mr. Cauy, of the Strand,
                            For November 1818.
              Thermometer.
 Davs of     u c                      Heicht of
             o -z                    the Barotn.
                                                                    e             Weather.
"Month.
                    Noon.                 Inches.            S-§*2
                               *2                            SJC « >\
                                                             >y y -—t
             CO
 Oct.   27   55     63         52     30M4                    39           Fair
        28   55     63         55             •17             36           Fair
        29   55     60         50             •25             28           Cloudv
        30   51     55         50             •15              27          Cloudy
        31   55     55         54             •02              0           Rain
Nov.    1    54     56         55     29-98                    25          Fair
         2   53     56         55             •62              27          Fair
         3   55     57         54             •71              27          Fair
        4    52     56         55             •45              0           Rain
        5    55     60         55             •35              16          Fair
             55     58         55             •40              17          Cloudy
        7    55     62        49              •6S              27          Fair
        8    45     55        45          .   -90              25          Cloudy     .
        9    44     54        48              •95              20          Cloudy
        10   48     51        50              •90              16          Cloudy
        1
        1    49     55        50              •78               0          Rain
        I2   45     50        52              •61              19          Cloudy
        13   50     57         55             •56              26          Fair
        14   55                               •45                          Rain
                                                               0 0 0
                    55         54
        15   52     55        45     .        '40                          Rain
        16   50     57        47              •55                          Rain
        17   45     52        45              •68              29          Fair
                                                                                "
        18   40     50        47      30-05                    26          Fair
        19   45     54        40              •04              20          Cloudy
        2O   41     46        39      29-85                    25          Fair
        2I   41     45        39              •76             20           Fair
        as   38     44        37              •75      :      20       ,   Fair
        23   44     55        50              •55             20           Fair
        24   50     54        44              •77              O           Rain
        25   39     50         49     30-14                   24           Fair
        26   51     53         56             •12              0           Rain
             N.B. The       Barometer's       height   is   taken at one o'clock.

                                    C
                                         401       ]
   LXII.      On the Question "Whether Music is necessary to the
        Orator, — to what Extent, and how most readily attainable P"
       By Henry Ufington, Esq.
                              [Continued from p. 250.]
-
      x
                                  To  Mr. Tilloch.
                                                Blair's Hill, Cork, Nov. 10, 1818.
              MY      last letter, which treated partially of tints, having
  found insertion in your Magazine for October, the continuation
  of this topic must necessarily follow:
                 Examination of The Speaker continued.
                               of time, continued.
        Observation    4th. —  The average duration of             the far greater
  number of his long-voweled syllables compared with the average
  duration of his well-articulated short-voweled syllables, appeared
  in ratio to each other as about three to tivo; while the longest
  class when under peculiar emphasis appeared in similar ratio
   [about.three to two] compared with the ordinary long ones, and
   consequently in ratio somewhat more than as two to one com
   pared with the ordinary short ones. The particles a, the, of, to,
  with other equally inarticulate syllables unfit for oratory, such as
   the first syllable of above, approve, oppose, or the second syllable
  of general, peaceable, &c. were much shorter than all, and may
  be estimated in ratio to the ordinary short ones, considerably less
   than as two to three, and in ratio to the longest syllables pretty
   nearly as two to eight, or about four to one.
       The following rude time-table will exhibit the comparative
   proportions with sufficient accuracy for our purpose.
       Longest, under peculiar emphasis,                   as thrones =12
       Average long-voweled                                as   dame = 8
       Average short-voweled                               as   dam     = 5
       Shortest, inarticulate, as the articles a, the. &c.              = 3
  ...  :   V;        ;  .:             .                              .  =  4
        Or, in musical characters less nearly thus ;                  •
                                                                            g
                                                                               •
        takkig the quaver as the standard for the or-                 \f,~
        dinary short syllable     ..       •
                                             ..         ..      ..    f =   2
                                                                 .
       [An accidental extremely prolonged exclamation does not come
                                                                      t-    1
   under our cognisance — nor have I intended in this table to re
   present the comparative length between the longest syllable in
   slow time .and the shortest syllable in quick.              I mention this cir
   cumstance     for the guidance     of  the  classical    reader  who may pos
   sibly be unacquainted with the nature of a time-table.]
        Observation 5 th. — The disproportion of syllables called long
   Vol. 52. No.248. Dec. 1818.                            C c                 when

402       "  Whether Music is necessary      to the  Orator, —
when compared with each other, as well as the disproportion of
syllables called short, when similarly compared, was so great,
that all our attempts at more minute analysis than that exhibited
in the foregoing table terminated in disappointment : Neither
could we pretend to lay down any tolerable set of rules for the
distinguishment of long syllables from short, every gradation from
our inarticulate article a to our longest syllable being constantly
discoverable in our language.       The doubtful syllables are incre
dibly numerous.
    Remarks. — Nothing hut the preservation of our native lan
guage from the iucroaching barbarism of the day, could have
warranted the over-minute observations on time with which I have
so long trespassed on the patience of my readers ; I must there
fore hasten to a conclusion, beginning with the comparative
lengths of our syllables.
    How widely different in this respect are the taste and judge
 ment of Handel from those of Joshua Steele, and the dissemina
tors of his new-fangled prosody!       Our immortal composer, for
such may Handel without exaggeration be called, has for the most
 part limited his numerical relations, even in recitative, to the
ratio of two to one, the crotchet = 4 being the general standard
 of his long syllables, and the quaver the standard of his short.
 The occasional increase and diminution of this ordinary standard
 were, in compliance with modern usage and the character of mo
 dern language, indispensable, and were introduced accordingly —
 the ratio of four to one being, with very few exceptions, the maxi
 mum.      Let us open his Messiah; and following him throughout
 the whole of that dignified passage " The voice of him that cryelh
 in the wilderness," we shall find, with the exception of the se
 cond syllable of " ivilderness," which for musical effect is written
 with a semiquaver, and with the exception of the word i: Lord,"
 which for similar effect (although decidedly unwarrantable in
 speech) is written with a minim, that the crotchet and quaver
equivalent to four to two, or two to one, are uniformly preserved.
Or let us turn to that celebrated passage of his Athalia, in which
as a highly impassioned and more theatrical subject he has in
 troduced a more diversified series — and we shall discover, even
in this instance, a reasonable limitation throughout, four to one
being the utmost extent of his proportions.
                               Messiah.
"
    2     4    24     2   2222 312 — 24224
   The voice of him that cryeth in the wilderness
                                                       4224
                                                     prepare ye the way
     228            4     4     22     2224
    of the Lord, make straight in the desert   a high way for o«r God."
    [I have passed over  without observation the dotted quaver      =3
assigned to the first syllable  of the word wilderness, this      being
                                                                     the

        to  what Extent, and how most readily attainable                  ?"    403
the   necessarv     preparative for the semiquaver assigned to der, fol
lowed by the quaver assigned to ness.                      Notwithstanding the ge
neral slowness of the whole movement, the recitative performer
is scarcely enabled to articulate audibly the semiquaver der: in
the quicker movement of speech it would be almost if not quite
impossible.]
                                         Athalia.
                2    2     2      2      222224
            " But                                     I
                 1112
                     as   the young barbarian             caress'd
                                       2     3      12        2    4
              He plung'd       a dagger deep       within    my breast;
               2    2 2       4      1     1      1 4
              No            could the blow repel,
                             222424
                    effort
              2     4
              I  shriek'd,   I  fainted, and    I  fell."
    [By    an attentive perusal        of  these latter lines we shall find them
much more exceptionable in the relative proportions of the syl
lables (when applied to language) than represented by Dr. Bur-
ney. Why should the unimportant particle the in the first line be
 twice as long as the important word plunged in the second, or
 as the equally important word blow in the third ? These, though
 the most prominent, are not the only oratorical objections to
 this highly musical passage.]
    Is it necessary to add another example ? Let us take our own
 celebrated national air " God save the King," and scepticism it
 self must acknowledge that the ratio of even three to one, much
less of eight to one as suggested by the originator of our speech-
barring system, is amply sufficient for the production of superior
melody even in song.
                                 God
                                                       444624
                                                     King.
                                       save the
      " God
           44           4       6       24
              save great George our king,            long live our noble king,
                                   4     4     4      12
                                 God save our king ;
          4       4     4624         44 4          624        42^2 2^2   624
         Send him victorious, happy and glorious, long to reign over us
                                 4      4      4     12
                                God bless    our king."
    [The dotted minim =12 assigned to the word "king" at the
close of the first and second part, though consonant with the
usage of song, cannot (as every person is informed) be tolerated
in speech ; and may it not therefore with justice be asserted that
the ratio of three to one, which otherwise prevails throughout this
beautiful production, is even superabundant for the melody of an
articulate language? The Greek and Roman languages, which
acknowledged neither inarticulate particles nor inarticulate syl~.                   •'
                                            C c 2                            lables,

               **
404                 IVhetlier Musie is necessary to the Orator,
 tables, did probably sometimes attain this ratio ; for although ju
 diciously founded on the general principle of two to one, yet the
 shortest syllable when most unemphatically delivered could not,
 to all appearance, have exceeded the one-third of the longest
syllable when influenced by particular emphasis.]
    There is another, and in my opinion a still more accurate me
thod of analysing our song, with reference to the subject of quan
 tity— which          is,
                  the taking into account not the variations which
any   individual syllable may undergo (such variations being equi
valent to the simple slide or circumflex in language, as thus                           :
 ^J,   thus          £j%   or thus   ff   f),    but the   actual duration       allotted
in   the aggregate to every such syllable.   For curiosity's sake let
us    subject that chaste and admirable song                    "
                                                  Hope thou nurse"
to   this mode of analysis, and   will be seen that the ratio of two
                                                it
to   one, and no more,     simply and uninterruptedly observed.
                                     is
                                      Hope thou Nurse.
       8        4          84        8         4848484848
 *'Hope thou nurse of young desire — fairy promiser of joy
                    848                        8484
                                                                        |
       8   4                         4                      8       4   8    4     8
     -Painted vapour glow-worm fire — temp late sweet that ne'er can cloy."|,
                                                                                       (
   What wonderful simplicity, and yet how. beautiful        Scanned     !
after the manner of Dionysius,     consists of alternate Cretics and
                                                 it
Amphibrachs only; and         consequently much less diversified in
                                          is
its arrangement than our ancient Hexameter, as will immediately
appear      the analysis of the latter.
               by                         Will our speech-barring
reformers at length be satisfied   or must we at their suggestion
                                                     ?
subvert the decorous usages of our country; and in the delivery
of our language surpass even the composers of our recitative and
song?
   Fortunately for the elocution of these countries, our collegiate
education, which embraces the languages of antiquity, inspires the
student with deserved veneration for the poetic and oratorical
productions of Greece and Rome,-— and from these sources he can
not fail, after  little application, to derive the most signal ad
                       a
vantage;   for     habituating himself to the recitation — first of
                           by
select Hexameter passages, and afterwards of select passages from
the orations of Demosthenes*,        certain rude observance of or
                                                     (a
rather attempt at accent, and a more particular observance of
quantity being regarded,) he will sensibly and even speedily ac
                                                              quire
   * Our present method of
                               reading the Latin language would render the
orations of Cicero ineligible.   We uniformily assign to the Latin position
vowels   short quantity, regardless of their lengths by nature. The same
           a
objection indeed will hold good in Greek with regard to the     « and                   ;
                                                                        but

          to   what Extent, and how most readily attainable?"              405
  quire an incredible command of organ, and a justness of taste
  which will amply repay him for his trouble, by enabling him sub
  sequently to excel in the delivery of his native tongue.
      The necessary process for this attainment, or at least that sim
  ple process which I successfully adopted in my experiments oit
  the Speaker, will appear in my ensuing letter ; and in the mean
. time it may not be impertinent          to present the inquiring reader
  with a statement of those combinations to which the recital —
  first of Hexameter and afterwards of ancient prose, must as it were
  intuitivelv familiarize his ear.
      To begin then with Hexameter . The reader must not imagine,
  in common with Mr. Sheridan*, and others who have superfi
  cially viewed the subject, that its combinations are simply and
  solely confined to the Dactyl and Spondee. This order of feet has
  certainly been prescribed ; but, as well may they insist that in
  " God save the King" no other combinations can be acknow
  ledged than those of the Molossus | f f fl an^ imperfect Cretic
  |f•f|      j; whereas the Trochee
                      -
                                                 Iambus     [f, Spondee     f f,
  Amphibrach f f C' an(^ Bacchic £ f f , are equally the characte
  ristics of this song.      For the more perfect elucidation therefore
  of our Hexameter, let us analyse its properties in the following
  series, without any further reference to " Hope thou Nurse" or
  even " God save the King," which are more limited than Hex
  ameter in their combinations.
    Hexameter combinations in dissyllable and trisyllable feet.
      [The various combinations of any given            series obtrude them
  selves more constantly and prominently on the ear in speech than
  in song; every trifling pause which sense or perspicuity requires,
  producing, by the disjunction of the members of the series, a new
  and independent effect on the immediately succeeding syllables.]
                              Series for Analysis.
                   rr     rr     rr      rr->PM>
                   or     or     or      or    > \ \. \     [
                  n:     rcc rcc        rccJ
  but tins imperfection appears for the most part too trivial in the delivery of
  Grecian prose (not poetry) to justify, in these instances, any material de
  parture from our habits: By giving such due length as common sense and
  our newly-acquired taste shall authorize, to the ?t«, Mn\ya, diphthongs, and
  cireumflexed syllables — and sounding every syllable fntty, which is certainly
  no violation of our present usage, the orations of Demosthenes will be found,
  with respect to quantity, as perfect as the best-formed ear can reasonably
  desire.
     * Mr. Mason, Mr. Sheridan,
                                   and several others who have written on pro
  sody, entertained a most curious notion of time or quantity.      Melody and
  a thump of the bow, were with these gentlemen synonymous.
                                    C c 3                                  Con

406            " Wliether     Music is necessary to             the     Orator, —
                                        Contents.
           I                                                                          v
                                        Pyrrhic
          Trochee             ..        r
                      . .
                                    |               Iambus        . .       . .
                                                                                  [\
         Dactyl       .   .   . .   f[[            Spondee        . .       . .
                                                                                  ff
         Anapaest     . .     . .   [ [ f          Amphibrach               . .
                                                                                  £
                                                                                      f   £
         Molossus     . .     . .   ff f           Tribrach [           £   [     never
         Cretic     f[f       • •   never           Bacchic       . .       . .
                                                                                  [[ f
                                Antibacchic             ff[,
to which  may be added the following polysyllabical                                       feet :    —
2d Paeon [ f [ ; 3d Paeon [ [ f [ ; Choriambus f
            [                                                                     £ £     f;   Ionicus
a majore
             f f [ T ; Ionicus a minore £ £ f f ; IstEpitrite                                  £   f   f fj
4th    Epitrite f | f f, and Dispondaeus f T f T.
    Now, of all the trisyllabical feet, as appears by the foregoing
 table, the Cretic and the Tribrach alone are denied admission; —
 the latter, besides its triple-time character, possessing too much
 lightness* for the sober dignity of an epic poem, and the for
 mer, though in itself perhaps sufficiently dignified, being too ir
regular, in consequence of its prominently quintuple character,
for an alliance with the more equable dactyl and the spondee :
Nevertheless, in the recitation of Hexameter, the unavoidable ir
 regularity of language must occasionally present the Cretic to our
ear — not the perfectCretic indeed, whose proportions are as 4, 2,
4, but the imperfect Cretic — — — the result of an irregular Mo
lossus ; or certain imperfect Cretics in some degree analogous to
the triple-time movements
                                f•£f [ f         and which  f-,proso-                      by
                                            —     —        —
dial notation maybe represented thus           o      5- o    the ne                      ,
cessary consequence of irregular Dactyls and irregular Anapaests.
    Having thus rescued the Hexameter from the unfounded ac
cusations of uninformed grammarians,           shall now offer to my
                                                            I
reader    acomplete  musical   analysis of the different combinations
which characterize the prose of antiquity when delivered as                                             it
ought; considering myself, as already observed, too incompetent
                                            I
to decide whether and how far these combinations are or may be
-introduced into our native tongue.
Universal Table        of
                    Combinations     the Greek and Roman Lan~
                                                   in
   guages in various species    Poetry as well as in Prose.
                                            of
      [The short syllable or quaver in the following table                                    is   repre-
  * In the penultimate bar of           " God    save the   King" the tribrach or triplet
 FT
  T    which by way of gface has been substituted in our present copies
for the original crotchet, and assigned to the word " God," has much con
tributed to the degradation of the piece. The composer was evidently                                     a
chaster musician than his pretended embellisher.
                                                                                               sented,

         to what    Extent, and how most readily attainable?"              407
sented, in conformity with modern usage, by the denominator S.
For simplicity's sake, all the characters are reduced to this term,
v being considered equivalent to £ to and to                f
lative duration of the notes, as already mentioned) was by no
                                                                       The re
means so accurately observed even in poetry as in song.]
   Pyrrhic                                    An imperfect bar.
   Trochee        . .
   Iambus         . .                         Bars of   JL.
   Tribrach*      . .
   Dactyl
   Spondee        . .
   Anapaest       . .
                                            > Bars of   1.
   Amphibrach
   Proceleusmaticus
   Bacchic
   Antibacchic
   Cretic
    Paeon   . . first
                                            >Bars of    A.
                 second
                 third
                 fourth
    Dichoraeus      . .
    Diiambus        . .
    Choriambus                              >Bars of     —  resolvable into  A-
                                                                             8
    Antipastus
    Molossus
                     . .
                                           J
    Ionicus a majore                        I Bars of   — not resolvable.
                                                         8
              a minore
     * The character of the ancient tribrach should not he too hastily con
 founded    with that of our modern triplet       f.  That species  of accentua-
 tion (as we style it) which attaches to our usually-executed triplet is rarely
 discoverable in the judicious delivery of the ancient languages, or indeed in
 the judicious delivery of our own serious compositions.        The audible and
  independent articulation of every syllable so circumstanced will considerably
  relieve, if not wholly destroy that jigging effect which characterizes the tri
  plet, and distinguishes that species of modern poetry whimsically called the
  dactylic or anapastic — the very semblance of which movement the dignified
  orator should disdain to introduce.
                                     C c 4                             Epitrite

40S          "    Whether    Music is necessary to the Orator ?"
  Epitrite        first     . .
                                  £fff             "1
                  second    . .   f[ff              I Bar of -1 resolvable into-i
                  third     ..    rrcr f
                                  rrrc j
                                                                 a8ndi.
                                                                        8'
                  founh     ..                                   s
                                                                                              5
                                                            of                      into
  Dochmius            . .   . .   [rrcr |Bar
                                         *-
                                                                 s~
                                                                      re?o3lvabie
                                                                         —  -
                                                                                           7
                                                                 and
  Dispondaeus         ..    ..    |" (*   f   J"
                                                        Bar of   ~     resolvable
                                                                                    into^_.
   These are the measures or combinations of time (altogether
unconnected with forte, or emphatic syllables,) of which the
writers of antiquity have so familiiirly spoken ; and 1 sincerely
hope that by our collegiate efforts they may ultimately tend to
the embellishment of that language which has fallen to our in
heritance.
                                      OF      FORTE*.
  This topic has been already so amplv treated in my late paper
on time and rhythmus, that very little more than the ordinary
doctrine of our lexicographers presents itself for discussion. These
gentlemen may amuse themselves as they please, by insisting that
this or that syllable only, shall, in their phraseology, be accented
or unaccented ; or, in plain common English, be articulated or
muttered: Mr. Sheridan, too, in his " Art of Reading," and Dr.
Blair in his '* Lectures on Rhetoric and the Belles Lettres," mav
also argue the peculiar propriety of confming the accent (as they
call  it)to an individual syllable, while every other syllable      de              is
nied even    aminor privilege —  producing      this wretched maxim
                                                            by
a sudden and intolerably offensive burst of forte in the midst of
pianof: but these anti-musical as well as anti-oratorical pre
cepts never yet were nor ever will be followed          the cultivated by
speaker.    Hence the energetic custom with several good orators
of laying,    certain cases,
                 in               considerable stress on the antepe
                                          a
nult of such words as dictator, representation, &c. analogous to
the Grecian delivery of ave^ulrure, hsXurrev, &c.     These latter                       in
deed may be so uttered (and with excellent effect) that even the
   * The author of Prosodia Rationalis, for the mere purpose of coining the
obscure and unmeaning term "poize" has introduced a most idle distinction
between force and loudness.        Force may certainly be exerted in whisper
or suffocated sounds without the production of loudness — but what relation
has this to the musico-oratorical question of forte?   " Pulsation" and " re
mission" too, terms equally ridiculous with the word poize, are likewise em
ployed by this gentleman as      convenient cloak for musico-physical absur
                                  a
dities.
 T    This   the characteristic sign by which our Gothic orators, actors, and
            is
reciters may be instantly distinguished from their superiors.     The second
sign is the striking of an octave.

                              On the Chronometer,                           409
 ya.i and eX shall be louder than the ti and u — in short, that a
  perfect crescendo and diminuendo shall be fully recognised in
 both   ; as thus av^airia-e xai 8isA.u<rev.    The Grecian language ex
 hibits innumerable words of this noble character — and why should
 not our Colleges follow the example by opening a certain num
 ber of the antepenultimate syllables of our own ?
     To conclude this letter. The latitude of forte and piano, in
 the delivery of our impassioned language even as at present con
 stituted, is much greater than ordinary observers would imagine;
 and to this subject the orator should direct his most serious con
 sideration.      The suitable and expressive distribution of forte,
 whether throughout individual or several words; nay, the diver
 sified beauties of the crescendo and diminuendo are, in cases in
 numerable, in every man's po'ver* ; while cultivated taste go
 verned by common sense cannot fail to apply them. . Rules are
 of no utility, nor is there any rational standard by which so
 changeable a character as that of forte can be rendered immu
 table.                        [To be continued.]
    * Especially when enabled                      I have heard the following
                                 by the writer.
line delivered with ease and uncommon military effect :
                 Cohorts charge home —the infantry is broke.
    Here, in place of the vulgar alternacy of weak and strong syllables, are
three consecutive syllables, without an intervening pause, all in complete
crescendo. When poets (if I may be allowed a well-known hackney'd phrase)
shall sink the country fiddler, and readers shall deliver our language as they
ought — then may we aspire to classical composition.        The foregoing is an
example of the first epitrite — and so military a foot is not, in my opinion,
to be met with in any modern language.      For amusement, I have tried some
military gentlemen with the delivery of these words, but their ordinary ha
bits did by no means lead them to such martial execution.          See Magazine
                                                      ,:
of October for the method of expressing the word         cohorts."
LXIII.      Remarks on a Paper by Major- General Brisbane, on
     the Method nf determining the Time, the Error, and Rate of
    a Chronometer,       by Altitudes taken with a Sextant from an
    artificial Horizon.       By Mr. Ed. Riddle.
                              To Mr. Tilloch.
           T
Snt, — X have just seen, in the last volume of the Edinburgh
Philosophical Transactions, a paper by Major-general Brisbane
on the method of determining the time, the error, and rate of a
chronometer, by altitudes taken with a sextant from an artificial
horizon.       I am agreeably surprised to find that his methods of
observing     and  of making his computations scarcely differ in any
respect from those which I have practised for several years ; and
                                                                       judging

 410       On the Method     of determining     the Time,  Error,
judging from my own experience, I- have no reason to doubt that
  he lias over-rated the degree of exactness which may generally
 be attained by the method which he recommends.
    Some of his altitudes were taken by reflection from quicksilver,
 but he remarks that he has with equal success employed pure
 limpid oil for that purpose.       I have made many experiments on
 this subject, and I find I can generally make my observations more
 satisfactorily from oil than either from quicksilver or anv thing
 else that I have tried.    From the slightest motion, the surface of
 quicksilver is so affected with tremors that it is quite impossible
 to use it with advantage.        The Trinity-House School is on the
 second floor of a substantially built house, yet I have there ob
 served the surface of a quicksilver horizon sensibly agitated by
 the tumbling down of an empty ale-barrel in the adjoining vard.
 Indeed I have frequently taken altitudes with perfect satisfaction
 from the surface of oil, when, from slight and sometimes imper
 ceptible causes, the surface of quicksilver has appeared so tre
 mulous that no dependence could be placed on a contact ob
 served in it.    Water I have found liable to the same objections
 as quicksilver, though in a less degree.        Treacle and other semi-
 fluids are subject to have their reflective power destroyed by dust,
 &c. and when their surface happens to be disturbed, it requires a
 considerable time to settle.       If the reflecting surfaces are unco
 vered,   as mine  generally are,   and  at all exposed to the influence
 of the wind, oil is still more decidedly preferable.      When taking
 the moon's altitude during the day, I find it advantageous to pour
 the oil into a Hack receiver : — sometimes, as a convenient method
 of attaining the same object, I pour a little ink into a white plate,
 and then pour the oil upon it.         But when the altitude of a star
 is wanted, recourse must be had to a quicksilver horizon.
    The uniformity of General B's results bears creditable testi
 mony to the care with which he has made his observations ; but
 1 maybe permitted to doubt whether he was justified in marking
 the time to tenths of a second.         The increments of time in the
 margin    correspond,  from  his  observations,  to increments of 1 0' of
 Forenoon. Afternoon,    double altitude in succession ; and though no
 seconds, seconds,      reasonable doubt can be entertained that the
    44-fi    45          mean of the whole will be exact to a small
    43       44         fraction of a second, it appears sufficiently
    44       45-3        obvious that the time of no single observa
    45        43-6      tion can be depended upon to less than a se
    44       43-6       cond.     I am aware that a part of the trifling
    46       47         discrepances which will be observed among
    45       45-3       these intervals is to be attributed to the slow
    44       44          motion of the sun hi altitude at the season
     44      45          in which the observations were made j as it
    46       45-6                                                        is
    45        45-7

                     and Rale   of a   Claronometer.                411
is then a matter of some difficulty to ascertain the time of con
tact to a second.                                                        ,
    I have been compelled to pay particular attention to the prac
tice of the method of determining the time, from having often
to depend upon it for the altitudes in lunar observations ; as
it is seldom that the altitudes of the sun and the moon, or the
moon and a star, can be got conveniently, at the same time, by
reflection.
    In taking either altitudes or lunar distances I direct my as
sistant (who is generally one of the young men attending the
school) to mark to the nearest second, the time when I give no
tice that the contact is perfect ; and from the nature of the ob
servations, I see no reason to believe that it can be of any ad
vantage to mark it nearer.
    The formula by which General B. has computed the time is
that which furnishes the rule given in Prob. VI. Requisite Tables.
There is a typographical mistake in the analytical statement of
it ; — sine (co. lat. + declin.) ought to be sine (co. lat. + declin).
This formula is not generally esteemed the most convenient one
for computing the horary angle ; but that is of little importance
in the presence case, as it is correct.
     In taking altitudes for the time I do not always make the in
 crements of altitude equal; but when the whole time of observa
 tion is small, and the sun is at a considerable distance from the
 meridian, the increments of altitude are nearly proportional to
 the intervals of observation, so that any irregularity is easily de
 tected.    I then determine the error of the clock, not from the
 mean of the altitudes, but from the mean of the errors deduced
 from each altitude calculated separately, and this is exactly Ge
 neral B.'s method.       After I have fmished my observations, I
 generally make my young men take altitudes for the same pur
 pose ; and a comparison of their results with my own shows me
 at once whether their observations have been made with requisite
 correctness.
     I perfectly agree with General B. in the opinion which he ex
 presses of the utility of the sextant, as it is now made by Trough-
 ton, Jones, and other respectable workmen.           It is a portable
 handy instrument ; it requires few adjustments, and those are
 easily made. Its state can be ascertained at almost any time ; and
 a little practice renders its use extremely easy.      It  is,
                                                              in short,
 in many cases,  a   valuable substitute for more expensive and com
 plicated instruments.
     But with deference to General B.,    I   would here suggest that
 the sextant can scarcely be considered as an instrument, the prin
 ciples and the use of which are not generally well understood.       If
                                                                    th«

412           On the Method               of determining         the   Time, Error ,
the results comtiionlv obtained by                        it,
                                            are less correct than those
obtained       General B., apprehend the true reason
                by                       I                     that such         is,
minute accuracy         seldom thought necessary.
                            is
    General B.'s observations, however, will show what the instru
ment       capable of, and the friends of practical science are obliged
          is
by    their publication.    One obvious consequence deducible from
them      is,
            that the  rate of  a chronometer may be determined in a
shorter time          by
                    this method than         meridian transits, or any-
                                                           by
other method that          practised.
                                 is      The time deduced from well                     a
 observed transit of the sun, or        star whose place
                                                      a       well ascer        is
 tained, mav indeed be depended on as probably nearer the truth
 than that determined from          single altitude, however carefully-
                                                  a
 taken but the error determined from
          ;                                     single transit (of
                                                                 a    star                  a
 at any rate)        isno  by
                          means  of equal authority   with   mean  of  the    a
 errors deduced from 10 or 12 altitudes of the sun.             compari          A
 son of General B.'s results with the errors of the astronomical
 clock as determined by transits in the Greenwich observations
 will show this clearly enough. Besides, opportunities for observ
 ing the transits of proper stars are few compared with those for
 taking sets of altitudes, and transit of the sun can be observed
                                                  a
 but once      day.
                a                    x
     In the method of regulating a chronometer by equal altitudes
it   is not necessary that the latitude should be known to any very-
 great degree of exactness        but to practise the method of single
                                              ;
 altitudes successfully,      must be known with considerable accu
                                      it
 racy ;   and as    supplement to his paper, General B. promises to
                      a
 transmit another on the method of determining the latitude                                     by
 a-series of altitudes taken with       sextant near noon.
                                                      a
     As his method of finding the time        so similar to mine,
                                                            is      think              I
it  probable that the method of finding the latitude which he en
 gages to communicate may also be in principle the same as that
 which    I  have practised for       considerable time and my chief
                                                  a                         ;
  reason for wishing you to insert this letter in your respectable
  publication        is,
                   that our methods may be compared when his pa
per appears.
  I  shall explain my method perhaps as well as          can in any             I
other way,      giving you an account of some observations which
                     by
I made last autumn, for determining      the latitude of this place.
But before     enter on this account,
                 I                       must inform you that the
                                                           I
Trinty-House School       situated in the lower part of Newcastle,
                                         is
not far from the river the steep banks of which are covered with
                                     ;
houses; and that from the direction of the wind, and other cir
cumstances, the smoke, though at all times considerable,      some                     is
times much more dense than at other times         and that the effect  ;
of this difference    the density of the smoke upon the refraction
                                in
                                                                  am                        I

                      and Rate     of a Chronometer.                   413
I am unacquainted with any means of appreciating.             1 frequently
observe the edge      of the  sun's disk  in a state of apparent undula
tion, at altitudes at which that appearance is never observed in
high and open situations.
   The observations of which I shall subjoin an abstract were
made, like General B.'s, with a sextant of Troughton's divided
on platina to 10"; and the telescope applied to it magnified
eight times. The rate of the clock and its error for apparent
time at noon were carefully determined, and the times were noted
and written down with the altitudes, by a young gentleman on
whom, from experience, I knew I could rely.              Several altitudes
of the sun's upper and lower limbs alternately were taken near
the meridian, and the several altitudes were reduced to the me
ridian by the following theorem. Let P, S, and Z, be the pole, the
sun's centre, and the zenith; then, sine           ~  *r vers. P. sine PS.
sine PZ.cosect.ZS. This theorem was published two or three years
ago by Dr. Evans in a slightly different form, in Leybourn's Ma
thematical Repository; and as I know not whether the number
of that work is published which contains the demonstration, I may
as well give      it here. By spherics, vers. ZS — vers. ZPt-.PS =
vers. P. sine PS. sine PZ.         Now ZPhiPS is the meridian zenith
distance;     and    when   P   is small, it is evidently nearly =ZS.
Hence           — -- sin. — .sin. ZS =       vers. P. sine PS. sine PZ ';
          vers. Zb           ZS
or sin.  — j=    vers. P. sine   PS. sine PZ. cosect. ZS.
   The declination of the sun was reduced to the Greenwich time
of each altitude, and the latitude found from each altitude sepa
rately.    The mean of the latitudes resulting from the altitudes of
the sun's lower limb was then taken, and also the mean of those
resulting from the altitudes of the upper limb, and half the sum
of these two      means   was taken as the latitude .resulting from the
observations of that day. By taking nearly an equal number of
altitudes of the sun's upper and lower limbs, any error that might
have arisen from a faulty habit of estimating the contact was ef
fectually obviated.
   This method of observing is also useful in determining the
time.
    The following will require no further explanation, and will be
 sufficient to exemplify what I have said :
                                                                    Trinity

                                             Trinity-House            School,          Newcastle,          Sept.     24,   3537     ;          clock          slow       for        apparent         time   30m   3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3>
Time        per clock.    App.  time.                          Obser.           alt.        Inct.    of                         Refr.            less
                                                                            1.
       h.     m.   s.    h.    m.   s.                             sun's    3.                alt.         Semidi.                                            Declin.           S.            Lat.    N.
                                                                                                                                    par.
       55     53    53   55   53    5"                       f34        25        5     +     52"+         3'      53"      •           55           +        3°25'5'                     =   5°     5 5'   25"
              44    56        5     25                         34       25        56    +     52     +3            53       I' 5 5      5               +         24       5              =5          5S    25
              53    5    52         25                         35          25     5+                 +3            53                                   +         25                      =5         5       ,
              5     24           5  35                   <(    35          25     55+
                                                                                              34     +3            53      -5                                     25                      =5         5      2S
                                             ,,-
              52    5                                          35          25     23+53              +3            53                                             25                      =5         5      31
              5      3              5                          35          25     5     +     25     +55           53                                             25                      =5         5 5
                               05355
                                                                                                                                                           333333
                                                                                                                                    17 55 55 57 55
                                                                                                                                                     ++ + +                    23565
              5     25              35                       135           5      53+52              +3            53                                             25                      =5         5 33              5
                                                                                                                                  Lat.                        sun's        5.       1.      5         58    26
                                                                   Obser.       alt.                                                                 per
                                                                   sun's     u.   3.
       55     55     5   55   55      56-)
                                                               34          53     35+53              -3            53      -5           55              +3        25       53          =5             5 5
              55    50        5       5                        35          53     53+                —3            53                   3               -+3       25           53           5 5             26
              50    53   12           io !                     35          53     42+                -55           53      -5           15                        25            3.          5 5             25
              52     3                u                        35          53     53+
                                                                                               626   -3            53      -5           3            + +    33      25                        5 5           25
              53    15              25                         35          53     25    +     55     -3            53                   55              +3          25                      5 5 5
              5     55
                               5235
                                      5
                                                             ,             53          5+36          -3            53
                                                                                                                                55      3               +3        25
                                                                                                                                                                                555
                                                                                                                                                                                            5 5 26
                                                             (.35
                                                                                                                                  Lat.                         sun's           u.    5.       5 5 5
                                                                                                                                                     per

 Experiments for determining the Length of the Pendulum. 415
   This may serve as a specimen of the method, and I shall only
extract the final results of the observations of a few days.
               1817. August 20th.       54J5S' 30"
                                30th. 54 58 30
                        Sept.     1st.  54 58 35
                                  2d.   54 58 28
                                  8th. 54 58 27
                                 24th. 54 58 26 (see above.)
                           Oct. 6th. 54 58 28
                                   9th. 54 58 32
                                Mean    54 58 29
   This exactly    agrees  with the mean of the results of 1 6 single
meridian altitudes taken with the same instrument, and with the
results of several hundreds of observations made with an excel
lent sextant of Ramsden's which belongs to the Institution.
                            I am, sir,
                      With due respect, your obedient servant,
                                             Edward Riddle,
Oct. 21, 1818.                          Master of the Trinity-House School,
                                                    Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
LXIV. An Account of Experiments for             determining the Length
   of the Pendulum vibrating Seconds in the Latitude of London.
   By Capt. Henry Kater, F.fl.S.
                          [Concluded from p. 3/0.]
H aving      thus satisfied myself that no injury to the knife-edges
was to be apprehended         from moderate use, the pendulum was
again suspended, but now, to my surprise, I found the number
of vibrations different from what they were before the remeasure-
ment.     This difference became still greater on the following day;
and it at length occurred to me that the moisture of the atmo
sphere must have undergone some change, and that an alteration
had been thus occasioned in the weight of the wooden extremi
ties of the pendulum.        On referring to lhe register of the hygro
meter kept by Mr. Browne, it was found that a considerable
change had in fact suddenly taken place from moisture to dry
ness ; and so great was the derangement of the pendulum from
this apparently trivial cause, that it became necessary to move
the second weight.        This was accordingly done, and the follow
ing experiments made for again bringing the number of vibrations
to an equality.
                                                                     Slider

416   An Account of Experiments for                                                     determining                                the Length                                  of
  Mider '29 divisions.                        Great weight above.
  Clock gaining (i"-18                                                                                                                             Barometer
  on mean time.                              Second weight moved.                                                                                    29-70.
                    l ime of        Arc of
                                                                                                                                        for arc.
                                                                                       of
            Temp.                                                                            vibrats-
                                                             Interv.   in se
                     coinci         vibra                                                                        5
                                               Mean   arc.
                                                                               conds                                  hours.    Corr.                               in 5
                                                                                                        Vibra
                                                                                                                                                            tions
                      dence.        tion.                                              No.               tions   in                                 Vibia
                                                             1
                     m         s.   0
  July    59-1       10    31       1-21
                                              0                                                                                s
   1st.              18    52       101
                                               I'll            501                     499 86055-09                             2-01                86057-10
                                              0   92           502                     500 86055-78                             1-38                86057              16
          69-1       27    14       083
                                                                                                                               Mean 86057-13
                                                                                                                               Clock + 0-18
          59-1       mean                                                                                                                           86057-31
                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                             Great weight below.
          68-8       47    22       1-23
                                              1 -16           502                      500 S6055 78                             2-20                86057 98
                     55    44       109
                                               1-04           502                      500 S6055 78                             1-76                86057 54
          68-9       4         6    0i>9
                                                                                                                               Mean 86057-76
                                                                                                                               Clock    0-18         -f
                                                                                                                               Temp.'                —          0-09
          68-9      mean                                                                                                                           S6057 85
                                                                                                                                                    ..
                1   he second weight was now securely fixed.
                                                                          '
 Slider 19 divisions.                                                            .                      ,
                         0
                                               Great weight above.                                                                                 Barometer
 Clock gaining            '-   18
                                                                                                                                                     29- lO.
 on mean time.
                    m.     s.
                                                                                                                               s
          693
                                              0
 July                0     52       1-21
                                              1-10               505                   503 86057-82                             1-98               86059-80
  1st.               9     17       1.00
                                              0-93               505                   503 86057 82                             1-42               86059-24
          69-2       17    42       0 S6
                                                                                                                               Mean 36C59-52
                                                                                                                               Clock + 0-18
          69-3      mean                                                                                                                           86059 70
                                             Great weight below.
          69-3      22     57       1-25
                                              1-19               504                   502 86057-16                            2-31                86059-47
                    31     21       1   13
                                              1-06               504                   502 86057-16                            1-83                86058- 99
          69-3      39     45       1-00
                                                                                                                               Mean 86059- 23
                                                                                                                                       °
                                                                                                                               Clock + 0-18
          69-3      mean                                                                                                                           86059 41

the Pendulum vibrating Seconds in the Latitude                                              of London. 417
 Slider 21 divisions.
                                                                                                      Barometer
 Clock gaining 0''-I8                          Great weight ab ove.                                     29-70.
 on mean time.
           a.      Time of Arc of c                            lnterv
                                                                                                                        in 55
                                                                                             Corr.
                                                                                  Jos?
                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                                hours.
                                                                                  2 2   2
                                                                                                                tions
                   coinci  vibra                               in se
                                                                                                        Vibra
           6                                     8        £                                 for arc-
                                                                                  >-=- x
           V
          H        dence.         tion.                        conds.   A     >                                            .
                   m.      s.    0                                                           s.
  July    693      28             1-23
                                                0 0 1 0
                           9
                                                      .18      503       501 86056 47        2-08       86058-55
   1st.            36     32      1-03
                                                          96   504       502 36057-16        1-51       S6058 67
                   44     56              89
          69-3     53     21    0 0       74
                                                          81   505       503 86057 82        1-07       86058-89
                                                                                             Mean 86O58-70
                                                                                             Clock    018  +
          69-3     mean                                                                                 86058 88
    E                                          Great weight below.
          6915     49                     21
                                0 0 1 1
                           6
                                                   1-15        503       501 86056 47        2   16     86058 63
                   57     29          09
                                                   1-03        504       502 86057- 16       1-73       86058-89
                    S     53              98
                                                          9f   504       502 86057 16         1-41      8^058-57
                   14     17              88     0 0      8£   505       503 86057-82        1-13       86058-95
          69-3     22     42     078
                                                                                             Mean 86058 76
                                                                                             Clock -f 0-18
          6ys      mean                                                                                 86058 94
  Slider 20 divisions.                                                                                Barometer
  Clock gaining 0"18                           Great weight above.                                      29-70.
  on mean time.
  July    69   3   1    46      I    34
                                                1-23  502               500 86055-78        2-47       86058-25
   lit.            10     8     1-12
                                                1.03  503               501 86056 47        1-73       8605S-20
                   18   31      0-94
                                                086 505                 503 86057-82        1-21       86059 03
                   26   56      0-79
                                                0-73. 506               504 86058-49        0-87       S6059-36
          693      35   2-2     0li8
                                                                                            Mean 86058-71
                                                                                            Clock -f- 0-18
          69-3     mean                                                                                86058 89
                                               Great weight below.
          69-3     40   28            23
                                                                                             223
                                I                 11   503              501 86056 47                   86058 70
                   48   51       111
                                                   04  303              501 86056 47         1-77      86058 24
                   57     14    098             0 1931 504              502 86057-16         1-41      86058-57
                   5    38      0-88
                                                 0-84 506               504 8605849          1-15      86059-64
          69-4     14     4     080
                                                                                            Mean 86058-79
                                                                                             Clock
                                                                                                        + -f
                                                                                                        18         0
                                                                                            Temp     0-04
                   mean                                                                                86059-01
          69   4
  Vol. 52. No. 248. Dec.                             ISIS.                          D   d

418     An Account of Experiments for                                              determming                          the    Length           of
  Slider 20 divisions.
  Clock gaining o"-l8                    Great weight above.
 on mean time.
                                                                            i
                     Time of Arc of
                                                                                   °
                                               c
                                                                                                                      Corr.
                                               Si
                                                                                                       5                                 5
             Temp.                                       Interv.   in se   conds
                     coinci       vibra                                                S                                        Vibra
                                                                                                   tions
                                                                                           Vibra           in        for arc.            in
                     dence.        tion.                                                                                         tions
                                                                   •
                     m.     s.    a                                                                                   s.
  July
                                              a
           68-5      33      7    1-41
                                               1-29       501                      500     S6055-78                   2-72      86058-50
  2d.                '11    29    1-18
                                               1-07       505                      503     86057-82                   1-87      86059 69
                     49     54    0-97
                                              0-89        504                      502     86057-16                   1-29      86058-45
                     58     18    0 82
                                              0-76        505                      503     86057-82                   0-94      86058-76
           68-5      6      43    0     71
                                                                                                                     Mean       86058-85
                                                                                                                      Clock      + 0-.8
           68-5      mean                                                                                                       8605903
      G.                                     Great weight below.
           68-U      51     20    1     17
                                              1-10       504                       502 86057-               1
                                                                                                            fi        1-98      86059-c4
                     59     44    •1-04
                                                94       506                       504 86058- 49                      1-44      86059-93
                            10      94        0 0
                                  0 0
                      8
                                                89       504                       50  86057-1
                                                                                       1                        fi    1-29      86058- 45
                     16     34      84
                                              0-79       506                       504 8605S-49                       1-02      86059- 51
           68-0      25      0    0-75
                                                                                                                      Mean 86059-26
                                                                                                                      Clock + 018
                                                                                                                     Temp. — 0-22
           68-0      mean                                                                                                       86059 22
  Slider   18 divisions.
                                                                                                                              Barometer
  Clock gaining 0"-18                        Great weight above.                                                                29-70.
  on mean time.
                     m.     s.    0
                                               a                                                                      9.
  July     68-6      18     31     1-25
                                               114         504                     50?     86057-16                   212       86059- 28
   2d.               26     55     104
                                               0-96        504                     502     86057-'6                    1-50     86058 66
                     35    1       0-89
                                                           507                     505     86059-16                     07      86060- 23
                           9
                                              0     81                                                               1
                     43     46       74
                                  0 0          0-68        505                     503     86057 82                   0-75      86058-57
           68-7      52     11       63
                                                                                                                     Mean       86059-1        S
                                                                                                                     Clock       +       0-18
           68-7      mean                                                                                                       86059-36
  H.                                         Great weight below.
           68-8      57     41     1-23
                                                                                                                      2-20
                                               1-16      503                       501     86056 47                             86058 67
                      6       4   1  10
                                               1-05      504                       502     86057 16                   1-80      86058-96
                     14     28     1-00
                                              0     94   504                       502     86057- 16                 1  44      86058-60
                     23     52    0 88
                                              0-85       506                       504     86058- 49                  1-18      86059 67
           691       31     18    0-82
                                                                                                                      Mean 86058-98
                                                                                                                      Clock      +18
                                                                                                                                         0 0
                                                                                                                     Temp   + 09
           68   9    mean    -
                                                                                                                                860.59 25

the Pendulum vibrating Seconds in the Latitude                        of London. 419
   Slider lb divisions.
                                                                              Barometer
   Clock gaining 0"-18                Great weight above.                       29-70.
   on mean time.
            a.   Time of Arc of          a    lnterv.  "3 %
                                                                    -  Corr.
             E   coinci       vibra            in se        Ja o 01
                                                                      for arc
            V
                   dence.      tion.    s   ¦
                                              conds.                           >       £
                  m.    s.     o                                       s.
                                        a
   July   b'9-4   17    43      1-24
                                        1-13    504     502  86057-16   2-08   86059-24
    2d.           26       7    1-03
                                        0-95    504    502   86057-16   1-47   86058-63
                  34    31     0-88                                     107
                                        0-81    504    502   86057-16          86058- 23
                  42    55     0 74
                                        0-69    507    505   86059-16   0-78   86059- 94
          69-3    51    22     Q-CA
                                                                       Mean 8605901
                                                                       Clock    + 0-18
          69-3    mean                                                         86059-19
     I                               Great weight betoiv.
          69-3    38    22   . i-'iO                                           86057 90
                                        1-14   502    50 0   86055-78   2-12
                  46    44     1-08                                            86059-55
                                        1-03   505    50 3   86057-82   1-73
                  55       9  0-98                                             86058-58
                                       0-93    504    50 2   86057-16   1-42
                    3   33    0-88                                             86058-97
                                       0-84    505      503  86057-82   1-15
          69-3    11    58    0-80
                                                                       Mean 86058-75
                                                                       Clock i + 0-18
          69-3    mean                                                         86058-93
  Slider 18 divisions.
                                                                             Barometer
  Clock gaining 0" l8                Great weight above.                       29-70.
  on mean time.
  July   69-3   53     29     rsi     1-19    503     501   86056-47
  2d.              1   52     1-08
                                      100     504     502 86057-16
                 10    16    0 9 -2
                                      0-84    50S     504 86058-49
                 18   42     0-76
                                      0-71    505     503 86057 82
         69-:   26       7   0-66
                                                                      Mean 86058-96
                                                                      Clock [ + 0-18
         69-3   mean                                                          86059-14
                                    Great weight below.
  K
         60 -3  32     18     1-24
                                       1-17   502     500   8605578    2 23   86058-01
                40    40      110
                                       1-05   504     502   86057-16   1 80   86058-96
                49      4     1 00
                                       J 95   505     503   86057-82   1-47   8605929
                57    29     0-90
         69 3 1   5   53     081
                                      0-85    504     502   86057-16   MS     86058-34
                                                                      Mean 86058 65
                                                                       Clock + 0-18
         69-3                                                                 86058-83
                                           D d   2

420   An Account of Experiments for determming                      the   Length       of
  Slider 19 divisions.
                                                                            Barometer
  Clock gammg o"-is                Great weight above.                         2q-90
  on mean time
                Time of Arc ot              Interv.                            dl tn ^- >o
           E     coinci      vibra
                                      % C
                                      W _
                                          "
                                             in se
                                                    °J               Corr.
                                                          •2.2 a § for arc.   si     3
          H      dence.      tion.   2       conds. ?A >— _                             1
                m.     s.    o
                                     a                               s.
   July  68-0     2    IS     1-28
                                             504    502              2-23     96059-39
                                      1-17                86057-16
   3d.           10   42      1-06                  502                       86058-73
                                      0-98   504          86057-10   1-57
                 19      6    0-91                  503                       86058- 92
                                      0-82   505          86057- 82   1-10
                27    31      0-74                  504                       86059- 26
                                      0-69   506         86058- 49   0-77
         68-2   55    51      0-64
                                                                     Mean 86059-08
                                                                     Clock 4- 0-18
         68-1    mean                                                         86059-26
     L                            Great weight below.
         67-7   23    52      1-29
                                     1-21    504    502  8.057-16    2-39     86059-55
                33     16     1-14
                                                         86057-16             86059-03
                                     107     501    502               1-87
                40    40      1-01
                                     0-97    504-   502  86057- 16   1-54     86058- 70
                49       4   0-93
                                     0-82    506    504  86058- 49   1-10     86059- 59
         67-8   57    SO     0-72
                                                                     Mean 86059-22
                                                                     Clock      + 0-18
                                                                    Temp. — 0-18
                                                                              86059-22
         67-8   mean
  Slider 19 divisions.                        .                              Barometer
   Clock gaining 0"- 18          Great weight above.                            29-90.
  on mean time.                                                                        -
    July  "68-3   45       3   1-23                  502   86057-16   2-08     86059 24
                                       1-13   504
     3d.          53    27     103            504    502   86057-16   1-47     86058-63
                                       0-95
                    1   51     0-87                  503  86057-82     1-04    86058-86
                                       0-80   505
                  10     16    0-74                       86058-49    0-75     860592-4
                                       0-68   506    504
           68-4   18    42     0-63
                                                                     Mean      86058-99
                                                                     Clock       + 0-18
                    mean.                                                      86059-17
           68-4
    M                               Great weight below.
           68-4   24    31     1-24
                                       1-17   503    501   86056-47    2-23    86058-70
                  32     54    1-11
                                              504    502 86057-16      1-80    86058-96
                                       1-05
                  41      18   0-99                  502 86057-16      1-44    86058-60
                                      0-94    504
                  49     42    0-90                   504 '86058-49    120     86059-69
                                      0-86    506
           68-5   58       8   0-82
                                                                      Mean     86058-99
                                                                      Clock      + 0-18
                                                                     Temp.       + 0-04
           68-5     mean                                                        86059-21
                                                                                        The

 the Pendulum vibrating Seconds in the Latitude                of London.       421
    The results of such of the preceding experiments as are to be
used    for calculating the length of the seconds pendulum, are.
 brought under one view in the following table ;
     Place                   1         No of vibra  , . No. of vibra   Vibs. in
     of the   Expt. Temp. Barom. tions. Great fc g tions. Great excess or
     slider.                            wt. aiove. q s wt. below.      defect.
        23     A      68-7     29-76    86059-39   •03   86059-42
        23     B      71-3'    29-86    86057-70   •23   86057-93       .—
        23     C      7! -4    29-86    86057-93   •23   86057-70         •
        23     D      73-!     29-95    8605654    •43   86056-97
      Pendulum      remeasured.
        21'     £     69-3     29 70    86058-88   •06   86058-94
        20     F      69-3     29-70    86058-89   •12   86059-01
        20     G      68-5     29-70    86059-03   •19   8^059-22       —
        18     H      68-7     29-70    86059-36   •11   86059-25       +
        ]8     !      69-3     29-70                     86058-93
                                        86059-19   •16                  +
        18     K      f9-3     29-70    86059-14   •81   86058-83       +
        19     L      68-1     29-90    86059-26    04   86059-82        +
        19     M      6S-4     29 90    86059-17   •01   86059-21
                               Mean     86058-7 1         86058-72
   No other explanation of this table appears to be necessary,
than that the column entitled "Difference" expresses the dif
ference between the number of vibrations in the two positions of
the pendulum, and that the last column indicates by the sign +
or — whether the number of vibrations exceeds or falls short of
the truth ; which inference is drawn from a comparison of the
number of vibrations when the great weight is above, with the
number in that position of the pendulum when the great weight
is below.      The mean of the vibrations in the column " Great
weight aiove" not differing sensibly from that headed " Great
weight below," is a proof that the number of vibrations in either
position of the pendulum may be considered as equal, and con
sequently that the one knife edge being the point of suspension,
the other must necessarily be in the centre of oscillation.
              Length     of the Pendulum vibrating          Seconds.
   The distance between the knife             edges was as follows :
                                         Inches. Divisions.     Inches.
         Bv the 1st measurement 39-4 +956-47=39-44094
         By the 2d,         ..       .. 39-4 + 954-49=39-44086
         By  the  3d,       ..       .. 39-4+955-65=39-44090
                                                       Mean 39-44090
   Corr. for error in division of the scale (see
      page 176)                                     ..        -0 00005
                                                               39-44085
                                          D d3                              Hence,

422       An     Account     of Experiments for              determining the         Lengthof
   Hence, 39' 44085 inches may be taken as the distance be
tween the knife edges at the temperature of 62 degrees.
   Using the vibrations when the great weight was below, as be
ing nearer to the truth than in the other position of the pendu
lum, we obtain the following results.
                        Vibrations
                                    length of     Corr.    Length of Dilterenct-
  Expt.
          Temp. Barom. in 24 hours the seconds for the at the seconds from the
                                            pen. in air. mosphere        mean.
                                                                       pen.invacuo
  A       68-7       29-76   86059-42       39-13313         •00544    39-13857       + -00028
          71-3       29-86   86059-93       39-13278                   39-13822       — 00007
  C B
                                                             •00544
          71-4       29-86   86057-70       39-13260         •00544    59-15804       —.00025
  D       73-1       29-95   86056-97       39-13259         •00544    39-13803       — 00026
                     29-70   86058-94                                  39-13837
 F E
          69-3                              39- 13293        •00544                   + •00008
          69-3       29-70   86059-01       39-13298         •00544    39-13842       +•00013
  G       68-5       29-70   86059-22       39-1 S28G        •00.545   39-13831       +•00002
  H       68-7       29-70   86059 25       39-13296         •00544    39-13840       + -00011
 I        69-3       29-70   86058-93       39-13291         •00544    59-13834       +•00005
  K       69-3       29-70   8605(1-83      39-13282         •00544    39 13825       — 00003
  L       68-1       29-90   86059-22       39-13271         •00548    39-13819       — 00009
  M       68-4       29-90   86059-21       39-13281         •00548    39-13829       — 00000
                                                               Mean    39-13829
    The length of the pendulum thus obtained requires yet an
other correction to reduce          to whatit   would have been at the
                                                             it
level of the sea.      The elevation of the apartments of the Royal
Society at Somerset House above low-water mark,                known to        is
be 81 feet      and
                 ;           by
                        several careful observations with an excellent
mountain barometer                by
                              Ramsden,      found the room in Portland
                                                        T
Place, in which the experiments were made, to be two feet below
the Royal Society's apartments           and as the height of the pen
                                                 :
dulum above the floor was four feet, we obtain 83 feet for the
elevation of the pendulum above the level of the sea.           Now the
force of gravity increasing inversely as the square      of the distance
from the earth's centre, the length of the pendulum must be in
creased      the same proportion,; and taking the radius of the earth
              in
for the latitude of Portland Place to be 3954-583 miles, we have
39' 1386 inches for the length of the pendulum vibrating seconds
 at the level of the sea.
   It  may be remarked that the greatest difference between the
 mean result and that of anyone of the twelve sets of experiments
 contained in the preceding table,          only -00028 of an inch, or
                                                        is
i
s   A 9th i   of tne  whole  length  of the  pendulum; and as seven of
 the twelve sets are within one ten-thousandth of an inch of the
 mean result,       may be inferred that the above determination can
                     it
 not be very distant from the trnth.
    The length here given,        that required to perform one vibra
                                         a is
 tion in g-ff-j -o-dth part of mean solar day, this being the mea
                     u
 sure of time usually employed for the purpose         but   am at    loss
                                                                       ;     I            a
                                                                        to

the "Pendulum vibrating Seconds in the Latitude         of London.  423
to conjecture why this      is preferred to the sidereal day, a measure
of time which marks       a complete     revolution of the earth, and is
readily obtained, being      the interval   between the returns of any
fixed star to the meridian.
    I shall now proceed to notice the sources of error which may
be supposed to have affected the results of the preceding experi
ments.
    These may be classed under the following heads :
     1 . The measurement of the distance of the knife edges.
    2. The number of vibrations in 24 hours.
    3. The temperature, and
    4. The form of the knife edges.
    On the first, it is scarcely necessary to offer any remark. Since
the mean results of three several sets of measurements are within
one ten-thousandth of an inch of each other, and the different
methods employed, preclude, it may be presumed, any accidental
coincidence, we may with confidence infer that the error in the
distance of the knife edges cannot amount to one ten-thousandth
of an inch.
     Among the number of vibrations in 24 hours given in the va
rious sets of experiments, there appear to be differences which
amount in some instances to 1•6.           These differences however do
not influence the truth of the result, beyond a certain minute
quantity, the extent and origin of which I shall proceed to ex
plain.
     In order to determine the vibrations in 24 hours, it is necessary
to ascertain the number of vibrations and parts of a vibration
 made by the brass pendulum during a certain number of com
plete seconds ; but the moment of observation being limited to
 that when the brass pendulum is at the lowest part of the arc,
 the process is of necessity reversed, and the brass pendulum is
 observed to make a certain number of complete vibrations, during
 a certain number of seconds and parts of a second which consti
 tute the interval.      The disappearance of the disk can however
 be noted only to a single second, and the brass pendulum may
 arrive at the lowest part of the arc either precisely at this se
cond, or at any portion of a second preceding it. An error might
 possibly arise from this circumstance amounting to nine-tenths
 of a second, by which the interval deduced from observation would
 be less than the truth ; and as an error of one second in the in
 terval, occasions a difference of 0-63 in the number of vibrations
  in 24 hours, if 0•55 (the proportional part of ()-63) be divided
  by 4 (the number of intervals forming each set of experiments),
  we have 0-14 for the greatest error in deject in the number of
  vibrations in 24 hours which can arise from this cause.
                                  Dd   4                             On

424   An Account of Experiments for determinmg      the   Length   of
  On the contrary,          if the     coincidence or return of the
                                     second
brass pendulum to the lowest point of the arc, should have taken
place nine-tenths of a second before the second at which the
disappearance of the disk was noted, the error in the number of
vibrations in 24 hours would amount to the same quantity, and
would now be in excess.
   If the first and third coincidences take place accurately at the
time of the observed disappearance of the disk, and the observa
tion of the second coincidence should differ nine-tenths of a se
cond from the truth, it is obvious that the number of vibrations
in 24 hours deduced from each interval will be erroneous about
0'56, the one being in excess, the other in defect. The mean of
both will be the truth, though the observed difference between
the two amounts to so considerable a quantity as 1•2.
   The last coincidence of each set takes place when the arc of
vibration is much reduced.      It is therefore not impossible that
an error of one second may sometimes, though rarely, occur in
determining the time of this coincidence.        This would occasion
an error of about 0-63 in the number of vibrations in 24 hours,
which divided by 4 as before, would influence the mean result
0- 15 of   a   vibration.                                           >
    In estimating these errors, I have taken an extreme case, as it
is probable they would in most instances be compensated bv the
succeeding intervals.     Supposing them however to be combined,
the greatest effect on the mean result of any one set of experi
ments might amount to about 0-3 of a vibration in 24 hours, and
the difference between the number of vibrations in either position
of the pendulum, might have been double this quantity, and yet,
when the great weight was below, not have differed from the truth
more than 0•3 of a vibration.
    It appears, then, that if the experiments have been conducted
with sufficient care, no greater difference should be found be
tween the meanx and any one of the resulting lengths of the pen
dulum contained in the preceding table, than might have been
occasioned by a difference of 0•3 of a vibration in 24 hours, and
this is found to be about 0 0003 of an inch.
    In fact, on referring to the table we perceive that the experi
 ments A and D, which differ most from the mean, give, the one,
 •00029 of an inch in excess, and the other '00026 in deject.
    In considering the sources of error, it may not be unnecessary
to remark, that had the bar of the pendulum been made too thick,
 and the knife edges not been placed accurately at right angles to
it,  an error, though very minute, might have arisen from the ef
 fect of the obliquity in diminishing the distance of the centre of
oscillation from the axis.     This was sufficiently guarded against

the Pendulum vibrating Seconds in the Latitude        of London.        425
by having the bar so thin as to ensure its becoming perpendicular
by its own weight, had the position of the knife edge been in a
small degree erroneous ; for though the form the bar would as
sume is strictly speaking a curve, it may without sensible error
be considered as a straight line.
   With regard to temperature, every precaution was taken to
prevent error.      The thermometer used was made by Mr. Trough-
ton for the late Sir George Shuckburgh.         It is divided into half
degrees, and the height of the mercury may be estimated to one-
tenth of a degree.      It has been already observed in the preceding
part   of  this  paper, that  the thermometer was approached only
at the first and last coincidences.
   The experiments themselves afford, it is presumed, a sufficient
proof of the stability of the knife edges.       Every care was taken
to form them in the first instance as perfect as possible ; and after
four sets of experiments had been made, they were found on
remeasurement to have suffered no perceptible alteration ; and
it is evident by the near agreement of the results, that they re
mained uninjured during the succeeding experiments; it is dif
ficult therefore to conceive that any error can have arisen from
this source.
    I may here remark, that the method I have employed in de
termining the length of the pendulum, possesses other advan
tages besides that of superseding the errors arising from unequal
                                                           is is,
density or figure ; and one, not the least considerable,      that after
a very few vibrations, the true length of the pendulum         bounded
 by  certain known limits. Thus in the two first sets of experiments,
after the remeasurement of the distance between the knife edges,
we may remark that when the slider was at 29 divisions, the num -
her of vibrations (the great weight being below) was, 86057•85
and in defect and when the slider was removed to 19 divisions,
             ;
the number of vibrations was 86059•4 and in excess.
                                         1                    The true
number of vibrations then     is  evidently between the two, and the
utmost extent of error in using either of these numbers must fall
short of 1•73 their difference when reduced to the same tempera
ture. But   if    the mean be employed in the computation, the
length    of  the pendulum will be found to differ only about four
ten-thousandths of an inch from the mean result given in the
foregoing table.
  It   may not be unnecessary to add, that every experiment made
has been retained  ;     nor do
                             I     consider any one as less entitled to
credit than the rest, excepting that marked A, in the table and     ;
that, only because the rate of the clock was not observed on the
day of the experiment, but was taken to be the same as the rate
of the following day.
                                                                        The

426     An Account of Experiments for      determining        the Length   of
    The length then of the pendulum vibrating seconds in vacuo at
the level of the sea, measured at the temperature of 62° of Fah
renheit, appears to be                                       Inches.
        Bv Sir G. Shuckburgh's standard             . .     39-13860
                                                        ' 39
        By General Roy's scale                                  137 17
       'By Bird's Parliamentary standard           . .      39-13842
the latitude of the place of observation being
51u31' 8"-4 north*.
    An objection might be urged against the use of the knife edge,
on the ground that being an elastic substance it may possibly
suffer temporary compression, and thus perhaps introduce a
source of error.      In order to meet any doubt that might arise on
this important part of the subject, it is my intention to com
mence a series of experiments with a pendulum of the same
construction as that which has been described, but vibrating on
cylinders instead of knife edges, and I trust soon to have the ho
nour of laying the result before the Royal Society.
       London, July, 1817.
                              APPENDIX.
     Since the preceding paper was written, a very curious and im
portant theorem has been discovered by M. Laplace, of which
 Dr. Young has favoured me with a concise demonstration, to
gether with some other investigations, which I shall subjoin in
 his own words.
     " My dear sir, — I cannot forbear to congratulate you on the
 discovery of the singular property of your pendulum, which has
 lately been demonstrated by M. Laplace, since it appears to re
 move the only doubt, that could reasonably be entertained, of
 the extreme accuracy of the results of your experiments.                The
 correction for the curvature of the rolling surfaces, in the case of
 a simple pendulum, is very easily obtained from the geometrical
 determination of the curve described, although M.Laplace's train
 of reasoning, from mechanical principles, is somewhat too ela
 borate to be readily followed through all the symbols in which it
 is enveloped : and the same geometrical considerations appear, at
 first sight, to be equally applicable to the case of compound pen
 dulums in general, since the motions of all their effective parts
 are concentric with those of a simple one similarly suspended.
     * The latitude was deduced from the data contained in the trigonome
 trical survey; MK Browne's house bearing from Portland Chapel 74° 38' 50"
 west from the north, the distance being 283 feet.      This differs only 0"-l
 from the latitude determined by Mr. Browne from a great number of obser
 vations.
                                                                          But

the Pendulum vibrating Seconds in the Latitude of London. 427
But      upon further reflection,                 it becomes evident that        these mo
tions, though concentric, are related to                          each other in proportions
somewhat different from those of a similar pendulum vibrating
on a single point, and it is therefore necessary to determine the
modification of the motion produced by this difference of con
nexion.   The investigation may however be conducted in a me
thod much more simple and intelligible to ordinary capacities,
than that which has been adopted by the celebrated mathemati
cian to whom we are indebted for the theorem ; and I am tempted
to send you an " apperpi of the reasoning by which I have sa
                             "
tisfied myself respecting it.
     " It follows immediately from the general theorem for finding
the curvature of trochoids of all kinds, (LecturesonNat.Phil.il.
p. 559) that the radius of curvature of the path of any point, in
the rod of a pendulum supported by a cylindrical axis, will ini
tially be a third proportional to the distances of the point from
the centre of the cylinder, and from the surface on which it rolls :
so that when the cylinder is small, and the pendulum simple, the
centre of curvature of its path may be considered as situated at
 the distance of the radius r below the point of contact: and this
 is obviously the only correction required for such a pendulum as
 that of Borda.     But when the weight is divided, or of consider
 able magnitude, it becomes necessary to calculate the effect of
 the different curvatures of the paths of its different parts, and to
 compare these paths with that of a pendulum A of any given
 length a.     Supposing, for the sake of simplicity, the weight of
  each horizontal section to be concentrated in the vertical line,
  and calling the distance of any particle P below the surface of
  the cylinder x, the radius of curvature of its path will be a third
 proportional to            x+r      and x, that           is}      ;    and the inclination   of
 the curve at a given distance from the vertical line being always
 directly as the curvature, or inversely as its radius, the force de
 rived from the weight of                  P     will    be to the force, at an equal di
 stance in the path of               A,*   as   a   to   —       or as
                                                                         "(**r) to   1.   Now
                                                         x+r'
                                                           ,
                        •
                                                 xx
 the point of the rolling pendulum confined to the vertical line                               is
 not the centre of curvature, but initially the surface of the cylin
 der  :so that this must be considered as the point of intersection
 with the vertical line, and as the fulcrum of the lever; conse
 quently the distance of    from the vertical line will be to that of
                                       P
 the pendulum        as x to a, and its immediate force will be
                            A,
                            = f^-Lp
 "
                   —.   P                  ¦
                                               hut this force, actingo only at the end
      xx           a             x     '                                        J
 of   a    lever   x, will have its            effect at   A     again reduced in the ratio
                                                                                               of

428   An Account of Experiments for             determining       the Length of
of x to a, and will then become -—- P              : and   if we express the
sum of all the similar forces belonging to the body by the cha
racter 2, whether found by a tluxional calculation, or otherwise,
                                         x +
we have the whole force at          A, 2     r- P.    The reduced or rota-
                                           a
tory inertia of the body, sometimes very improperly called the
"  momentum
                 " of inertia, will also be expressed by                P, being
                                                                   2^-
reduced in the ratio of the squares of the distances from the ful
crum ; consequently the accelerative force will be to that of the
                    r— P
pendulum     A  as              to 1, or as  -Iff. — _ to       ' since it is iu-
                    yJtrp                    a2(j;+ r)P
                                                              1 :
                        a
different whether the integral or the differential be divided by
the constant quantity a: and in order to express the length of the
equivalent pendulum, we must suppose a to be as much lengthened
as the force is weakened, so that we have for this length               — SjjP„.
It  is obvious that     the denominator of this fraction is the same
that   would  express the force of the body with regard to the cen
tre of the cylinder as a fixed point ; and it might indeed have been
inferred at once, from the principle of virtual velocities, that the
force must be the same in either case, however irregular the form
of the body may be : but it is somewhat more satisfactory to fol
low the mechanical steps by which the operation of the law takes
place.    If we   make    r = 0,   we have
                                             y-p- = 'j for the length of      the
equivalent pendulum when the surface of the cylinder is supposed
to be the centre of suspension ; and it follows from the well-
known properties of the centre of gravity, that 2a:P, the sum of
the product of all the particles into their distances, is equal to
 Qd, the product of the whole weight Q into the distance of the
centre of gravity from the point of suspension ; and 2x9P=2xP/
 =d Ql, so that the equivalent length for the rolling pendulum
             —           -Sj.-PdlO                       l          ,/,    r\),
                                    „ = -7- —
,             dlQ    =         - ~          dlQ- =
becomes —                                                     = /(' I            r
           2(.r+r)P             + 2/P    <ZQ + >Q
                                                       l+r_ d
being supposed very small;           which, for a simple pendulum, when
d=l, becomes I — r, as it ought to do. We must however find
the displacement of the centre of suspension which is capable of
producing an equal alteration in the length of the equivalent
pendulum ;* and for this purpose we must have recourse to the
theorem of Huygens, which may be easily deduced fmm the ex
                                                                        pression

Ihe Pendulum vibrating                             Seconds       in i lie Latitude                of London.          429
pression                   :    for calling             x—d, the distance of any particle of
                  ^
the body from its centre of gravity, y, we have xz=(d+y)i=dz
 + 2dy +yz, and Sx'P = Zd'P + 2d2yP + 2y*P = d*Q + 0 + 2y *P,
the integral of 2yP, the product of the distance of each particle
into its distance from the common centre of gravity always va
                                                                       — —
                                                                                           SJ^P
nishing:          consequently                     1=            g~                               +   d,    and       Z—   d
             >   which              is   Huygens's           theorem:               the constant quantity
=:S'iq
—
      ^~   being equal to dl—d1.                            If    now we suppose                      d     to be in-
creased          by   the small quantity                    s,   the reciprocal,                  instead of      I—       d,
will become                          =                 = (Z-d)
                                                                           ~L) =* -d
                                                                                                       _ L        +        s,
                                          ±^                     (     1                               I
                                                   d
to which adding                     d+s,       we have           I—
                                                                  I        —   +    2s, the increase of the
                           2d~l
length being                             s; and making this equal to —                                     r,   we have
5=     j^j:       and when the pendulum                               is   inverted, substituting Z—                       d
for    'd,   the expression                 a= — — which, added to
                                              becomes
                      r            2/-2rf—      2rf—                       I                l',        '
the former negative value of the same quantity, must always de
stroy it: so that the length of the equivalent pendulum will be
truly measured                  by
                     the simple distance of the surfaces of the cy
linders, as M. Laplace has demonstrated.
    " There however another correction, of which
                      is                                        becomes                                it
necessary to determine the value, when         very  sharp  edge    used       a                                 is
for. the axis of motion, as in the pendulum which you have em
ployed    since
             :    appears very possible, that in this case the tem
                               it
porary compression of the edge may produce sensible elongation                          a
                                                                                   is by
of the pendulum.      But    will be found,    it calculating the mag
nitude of this change, that when the edge          not extremely shoTt,
and when its bearing       perfectly  equable,isthis correction may be
safely neglected.
   " Supposing a to be the distance from the edge, the plane                                           in
bisecting its angle, at which the thickness    such, that the weight               is
of the modulus of elasticity corresponding to the section shall
become equal to the weight of the pendulum, the elasticity at
any other distance x from the edge will be measured          x, while                                      by
the weight     represented
                      is       a;  so that the         by
                                               elementary  increment
x*    will be reduced                    by   the pressure of the weight to                           —   —a^,        an^
the element of the compression will be                                                            and its fluxio"

430                            On the Pendulum.
      dx,' of which the fluent is <zhl                .     Now the height  °      of
a+  x                                              «
the modulus of elasticity of steel is ten million feet, (Lect. Nat.
Phil. II. p. 509) and the weight of a bar, an inch square, and of
this height, would be about 30 millions of pounds ; so that if the
weight be 10 pounds, and the line of bearing an inch long, the
thickness at the distance a must be one three-millionth of an
inch ; and supposing the angle a right one, a must be Ts-ti o0o-;
and making x—\, we have the whole compression of the edge
within the depth of an inch Tt,ttwo-hl 4244001 ; and this lo
garithm being 15-26, the correction becomes equal to the 360
thousandth of an inch.           If the bearing were one- tenth of an inch
only, the compression for both the opposite edges would become
Tr5-inr> supposing that they retained their elasticity, and under
went no permanent alteration of form.                     In fact, however, the
edge   must    be   considered    as a  portion    of a'  minute  cylinder, which
will be still less compressible than an angle contained by planes ;
and the happy property, demonstrated by M. Laplace, will pre
vent any sensible inaccuracy from this cause, however blunt the
edges may be, supposing that the steel is of uniform hardness in
both.
                    Believe me, my dear sir, very sincerely yours,
Welbeck-street, Jan. 5, 1818.                               Thomas Young."
    " P.  S.   It  is easy to show that the determination of the length
of  the pendulum, by means of a weight sliding on a rod or bar,
which is the method that I have proposed as the most convenient
for obtaining a correct standard, is equally independent of the
magnitude of the cylinder employed.                  The reduced inertia -Zx^V
here consists of two portions : for the rod we may take the equi
valent expression dlQ, which we may call axy, a being the
weight of the bar (Q), x the distance (d) of the centre of gravity,
and y the equivalent length (I): for the ball we must employ
the formula 2a;1P = 5:y1P-|-J?Q, and call Sy'P, v, and d'Q^z1,
I  being the weight of the bail, and z the distance of its centre
of gravity from the point of suspension : and in the same man
ner the force "Z(x+r)P=(d + r)Q must be composed of the two
portions a(x + r) and b(z-\-r), so that the equivalent length be-
                                        "*!> + «
           axy+u
                                 zi  i
                                                         ...               ,,
                     + btz                                                    zz + v
comes            —            =
                                            b
                                                —- ;  which we may
        a(x
                •    -
             + r) + b{ z + r)      , ax + ar + br
                                                   '                   J call  : + tc
                                *+         T
= t.     The experiment being then performed in four different
positions of the weight, at the distances d', df', and d'" , so that
the second value of z may be » — d'=z', the third z— d"—z",
and the fourth z—d"'—z"') we must observe the times of vibra
                                                                              tion,

                   On the Length       of the French Metre.                       43 1
tion, and deduce from them the comparative lengths of the equi
valent pendulum, t, n't, n"t, and n"'t : and hence the value of z,
of v, and of t may be obtained, without determining tu, and of
course without employing the quantity r.
    First,         = t, "-^_=n't,'—^_ —          — n'
II.  z +w=       __ */ + „;=__            z +M/ = _;7r,2:"'+K;= __— _
III.   z-z' = d'; z-z"=d"                z-z" = d" .
IV. a =            —    —— ;      a =               n— : a = —                    ^— .
 V      _
        —   --+>•
                    _           ~      ~~ l""+l>_ —
                                                    z*+v    _ l"'*-f
                                                            ~~
                                                                       »
                                                                         '
            "d7          iTd7"     d"     l?7d7'      d'"        ri"d"'
    VI. By comparing the first of these equations successively with
the second and third, and bringing the terms containing v to the
same side, we obtain
    V=                    ~                                                         =
                                               (.alr~lrrdir~ ~¥ + ^d7)
                                            :
                                                                       I +_L\
         (.d'"~ Vd             dF+ n"d")
           (t
           \d'
                  _i!_iij.i!:V^                "
                                d"'Xn"'d"'/ \d'H
                                                             !
                      n'd                                 „"'d"'       d'^n'd'J'
    "  This equation contains only the squares of the values of z
with known coefficients ; and if we substitute z—d', z—d", and
z—d'" for z', z'', and z'", respectively, we shall obtain an equa
tion in the form ez1+ fz=g, whence z= + »/ (g + IJ1) —\f-
                                                                          " T. Y."
LXV. On         the Length       of the French     Metre estimated in Parts
    of  the    English Standard.              By Captain, Henry Kater,
    F.R.S*
One      of the objects of the Committee of the Royal Society ap
pointed for the purpose of determining the length of the seconds
pendulum, being the comparison of the French melre with the
British Standard Measure, two metres were procured from Paris
for that purpose, the one made in the usual manner, and called
the metre a. bouts, and the other a bar of platina, on which the
length of the metre is shown by two very fine lines ; this is
named the metre a traHs.
    The width of the metre a louts is one inch, and its thickness
0•3 of an inch.            On one side the word       "   Metre" is engraved,
       * From the Transactions of the Royal Society for          1818,    Part I.
                                                                                   and

 432             On the Length     of the French Metre
and on the other " Fortin h Paris."           The terminating planes
are supposed to be perfectly parallel, and the distance between
 them is the length of the metre.
    The metre a traits is the same width as the metre a louts, but
only a quarter of an inch thick. The lines expressing the length
of the metre are so fine that one of them is scarcely perceptible
even with the assistance of a microscope, unless the light be very
favourable.    The situation of the lines may however be disco
vered by two strong black dots, made with a graver at the ex
tremities of each, and a fine line crosses them at right angles, to
indicate the parts from which the measurements are to be taken.
    This metre, previous to being brought from Paris, was com
pared with a standard metre by M. Arago, with all that care and
ability which he is so well known to possess, and which so de
licate an operation requires.      The result was, that the distance
between the lines was found to be less than a metre by Tf^-§ of
a millimetre, or '00069 of an inch.
    The same micrometer microscopes were used in the compari
sons which I am about to detail, as have been already described
in my account of experiments on the length of the pendulum in
the Philosophical Transactions of the present year ; and as the
length of the metre is nearly 39•4 inches, I was enabled to refer
it to the same divisions of Sir George Shuckburgh's scale as I
had employed in the measurement of the pendulum.
    I commenced with the metre a trails. It was placed in con
tact with the standard scale, their surfaces being in the same
plane.    An excellent thermometer was laid upon the scale, and
a piece of thick leather was placed upon its bulb in order to pre
vent its being affected by heat from the person of the observer.
    The whole was suffered to remain in this state for two or three
days ; after which the following observations were made at va
rious times, the microscopes being brought alternately over the
mStre and the scale.      The value of each division of the micro
meter is -jTrro" o' an 'nc^ *•
   * For the manner in which this value was obtained, see      1 75 of the
                                                          page
preceding paper.
                                                                    Com

                  estimated in               Parts of                 the       English Standard.                              433
                           Comparison                      of the Metre                       a   trails.
                  Reading of the
                                              1*1.               *             4*
                                                                                   *-
                                                                                    5p       V m - Distmice in inches
                                                  SiJ                      «   - * .0
                                                                 £                                    ,
                                                                      s        *             U .£
                                                                      *oi "3
                                                                           S                 3 CCU between the lines
       1
                   microm.    at   I   £
                                        =
                                                                 a£   9:
                                                                               &'p
                                                                               35   c    of       a
                                                                                                  s
                                                                                                    designating the
                   39-i of the
                                                  111                                                     metre,   the metre
       t- S s.
                                                  « u +
                                                       5 >S                                               being at 3a", and
                                   Is
                                                                      •*  3
          V
                       scale.                     •r     A «     s     J            I*                    the scale at 62°.
                       1
      60      0      S3    0       644   3        559-5           3937606                •00604             39 3701    2
      60-7          7j-5           (390           56:3-5         39-37388                •00589             39-36999
      61-7          69-2           634   0        561-8          S9-37583                -00568             39-37015
      6«-()         64     0       630-5          563            39-37380                •00562             39-37018
      62-4          61-0           629   0        568      0 5   39-37569                •00554             39-37015
      62-3          58-7           629-5          5708           39-37557                •00556             39 57001
      (52-2         58-0           628   0     370         0     39-37560                -00558             39-37002
      62-2          59.0           623('       566-0             39 37577                •00558             39-57019
      62-1          59-0           625-5       566         5     59 37575                •00560             39 37015
      58-8          90     0       638   0     548-0             39-37654                •00629             59-37023
      5!)0          83-0           637-0       554-0             39-37629                •00625             39-37J04
      59-0          82-    0       636   0    "534-0             39-37629                •00625             59-37004
      59-2          83-2           632-(;      54S         8     59-57651                •00621             39.37030
      59-1          81-0           632.0          53   i   -0    39-37642                •00623             39 37019
                                                                                         Alean             39-37012
      The distance between tiie lines designating the
                                                  the")
        metre was found by M. Arago to be too     ttle                                   li
                                                                                                      }    -f 000 69
        by a quantity = -00069 uf an inch, which add
                                                  dd                                          J
      The distance from zero to 39-4 uf Sir G. Shuck
              burgh's scale       too short compared with the
                                   is
                                                                                                             -•00003
              mean of its divisions by -00005 of ati inch, which
              subtract*
      Hence the length of the metre in indies of Sir G,
                                                                                                           59-37076
        Shuckburah's scale                   is
   The comparison of the metre          bouts presented considerable   a
difficulties, which     conceive
                               I    would be of little use to detail, as
                                                            it
the necessity of comparisons of this kind          of very rare occur                         is
rence ;   I  shall therefore proceed to describe the method which
was at last found successful.
   Four rectangular pieces of brass were prepared precisely                                                                    si
milar to those described         the account of experiments on the
                                                  in
pendulum in the Philosophical Transactions before referred to.
These were marked C, c;,          and      The perfectly plane rect
                                                       D                   d.
angular edges of the pieces         and     being placed in contact,
                                                            C                  c,
and kept thus        means of spring, the distance of the fine lines
                           by                          a
drawn on their surfaces, parallel and very near to the rectangular
edges, was found to lie 500-5 divisions of the micrometer and the                                                    ;
pieces    D  and    being placed in like manner in contact, the di
                          d
stance of the lines on their surfaces estimated in the same divi
sions was 456•7.
   The metre       bouts being placed
                       a                   the side of the brass scale         by
and in contact with        the pieces  it,and     were applied to its      D              d
extremities, the surfaces of the brass pieces being         little below                                     a
the surface of the metre in order to preclude any error which
                                                  • Sea page
                                                             176.
Vol. 52. No. 248. Dec. 1818.                                                             E e                               might

434                           On the Length                             of the        French Metre
might have    arisen from the edges of the metre projecting beyond
its terminating planes.     Each of the brass pieces was supported
in this position upon a piece of lead of a sufficient thickness, and
kept in close contact with the end of the metre by means of a
slight spring bearing against a pin driven perpendicularly into-
the lead.
    In order to ensure a perfect contact between each brass piece
and the terminating plane of the metre, a flat ruler of brass was
laid upon the surface of the metre so as to project beyond its ex
tremity, and the end of the lead was elevated or depressed so
that the line of light seen between the piece of brass and the
ruler, the eye being level with the surface of the brass, apppeared
to be equal in every part ; when it was inferred that the surfaces
of the metre and of the piece of brass were parallel, and conse
quently that their rectangular ends were perfectly in contact.
    The distance between the lines on D and d was now taken
by the microscopes, and transferred to the scale in the manner
before described ; and when a sufficient number of comparisons
had thus been made, the pieces D and d were exchanged for
those marked C and c, and the observations repeated with every
precaution to ensure an accurate result, especially with respect
to temperature.
    The under surface of the metre was then placed uppermost,
and the apparatus being arranged as before, the same process
was pursued as that which has just been described.        The results
are contained in the following tables.
                               Comparison                          of the Metre a bouts.
       The pieces D and d applied.   Distance from D to d,
            45t>-7 divisions. The word Metre above.
       i              -                                                                                       for tern            * *
                                 Reading of tin
                 3        «                                              Divisions   to     A                            £                 S
                 =
                       ali                                    St        lje deducted                                in
                                                                                                                                  S    H
                                                                                                                                   - -S -B •»
                                                                                                                                               <0
                                                  pieces.
       "5                                                                                    %£          peralure
                                                                                                                              o
                                  inicrometer                                                                                     2*at *       °
                 bfl        re
                 £4 1 SO ^ u                                  u                                                              .a   +S   £
                                                                           from 39-4
      t
                            "                                                                          decimals of an                          «
                                                                                                                         P
                                                                                             -&s                             u2        • S
                                                            5£
                                                                                             J
                    .§  5o>                                                                                                                    a
       r>
                 !a»    o
                                  at tke brass                               inches.
                                                                                             a
                                                                                             e         Corr.inch.            Jafsl
      39-7             y5           91                      82           538-7            39-37(i9-i    -OOtilO              39 37083
                                          2 5
                                                                  0
      54             38-0           97                      59-2         315-9            39-37792      •00713               39-37079
      55   0 8       390            980                     59-0         515-7            39-37795        0O709              39-37084
      55-1           36-2           95'0                    5H-8         515-5            39-37794      •00707               39-37087
      55-2           36-0           95    0                 59    (I     515-7            39-3779-0     •00705               39-37088
                                                                                                               ivlt-an       :>y-o70S4
       The pieces                C   and      applied.cDistance from   to                                                C              c,
                       500     5   divisions.    The word Metre above.
       5
       6                            47    5                 i(5   b       517J            ;y377f>t>      OliOyn
      55-7           30   0        473                      17-3         517-8            19-37784     •00fi94               39-37090
      55    9        30-2          475                      17-3         517-8            19-37784 •00690                    39-37094
      36-2           245           45-0                     20           521-0            39-37770 •00634                    39-370S6
      56-3           23-0          44-7                     21    7 5    522     2        19 37765 00681                     39-37084
                 |
                                                                                                               Mean      |   3S»-:Vrt>8H

                       estimated in Paris                                      of the English Standard.                                           435
     The pieces C and                                     c applied.              Distance from C to                                       c,
                        500-5 divisions.                                   The word Forlin above.
                                       Reading of the
                      Reading of the
                                                                                                    V
                                                                         — T3
                                                                         O
                                                          IB               e                       A                           5             ?,
                                                                                                             2-U                      bp3
       Temperature.
                                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                               2      =
                       micro m. at                                                                                              >m=
                                                          g. O
                                                                         a «
                                                                                                                                   .»
                                                                                *
                                                          S                         m »                                                      „¦
                                       microin. at the
                                                                                                                          .
                                                          V                                                                      o
                                                                                                                                        31
                                                                         s s            s
                       39-t of the                                       '«    £
                                                                               -3
                                                                                    c o                                   "     .s
                                                    i                                    .£
                                       brass pieces.
                                                                               i                                 24
                                                                         O e
                          scale.                          a
                                                                                                             i
                                                                                                             o   8.1
                                                                                                             c       -a
     A6-8                150             37 -5                            523-      0         39 3776',!     •00671             39-37091
     56      -7          15-7            40-0            24-              524-                39-37754       -00673             39-37081
                                                               8 3
                                                                                    O 0 3 8
     56-8                14-   7         40-5            25-              526                 39 37747        0067     1        39-37076
     568                 15-   5         40-0            245              525-                39-37753       •00671             59-37082
     56-8                15-5            40     0        24-5              525                39 37753       00671              39 37082
                                                                                                                 Mean      |     39-S70-12
     The pieces                 and    Dapplied.  Distance from
                                                         d                                                                      D     to    d,
                       456•7 divisions.   The  word  Forlin above.
     j.Vu                35-   5          93-0           57 -                 OI4-4           39>3779b       -U07i>y            39-37089
     .5.5-2              3f)5             P.5-0          58-     0 5 7        515-2           39-37795       •00705             39-37090
     55-       2         36-   0          93-0           57                   513-7           39-37801       •00705             39-37096
     50-0                26-5             890            (12-5                519-2           39-37778       •00688             39-37090
     56-       0         Q3-5             87   0         63-a             5    '20-2          39-37773       •00688             59-37085
                                                                                                             Mean               39-37090
                                   Summary                of the preceding Comparisons.
                               - JM*                                                          «-
      The word                                       above               . .
                                                                               \        j>    J          ft*™}* -37087
                                                                                                             Mean             3937086
                      Subtract for errror in division of the scale                                                             —•0005
      Length of the Metre                            «   bouts in inches                      of Sir G. Shuck-        "1
                                                                                                                              „„  „_..„,
                                                                                                                              .39-^7081
        burgh's scale                                                                                                j-
  The following       the manner in which the correction for tem
                                       is
perature  was  obtained.     The expansion of platina according to
the experiments   of   Borda   and others,     -00000476 parts of its                                   is
length for one degree    of Fahrenheit;    and as this   the expansion                                                    is
used   by the French in adjusting the length of their metre,                                                                                       it
must be employed on the present occasion.              The metre being
taken at 32 the expansion for the difference between this and
                          ",
the temperature of measurement must be subtracted from the
apparent length of the metre.          The English standard tempera
ture is 62° therefore, :     the temperature of measurement be un
                                                         if
der this, the expansion of the scale for such difference of tempe
rature must be deducted from the length of the metre before ob
tained.   These two corrections are combined in the column en
titled " Correction for temperature."       Sir G. Shuckburgh's stan
dard scale    of cast  brass;
                        is     and  as   could not conveniently deter               I
mine its actual expansion    with  that degree of accuracy that would
have satisfied me,     have taken for  I    the mean result of two ex-                        it,
                                                                    £          e
                                                                               2                                                      periments

 436     On Ike Preservation     of Seeds,  the Use    of Lime in
 periments made on plate brass, which gave me an expansion of
 •0000101 parts of its length for one degree of Fahrenheit.          The
 mean of most of the experiments made on the expansion of brass
 gives '0000104, and had I employed this last number instead of
 my own, the difference in the length of the metre would have been
 utterly inconsiderable.
    Supposing then both metres to be of equal authority, we have
for the length of the metre a traits 39•57076, and for that of the
 metre a bouts 39-37081 inches; the mean of which, 39-37079,
 may be taken for the length of the metre in inches of Sir G.
 Shuckburgh's standard scale when each is brought to its proper
temperature *.
   London, November 1817.
   * The
          length of the metre compared with Bird's Parliamentary standard
is 39-37062 inches.
LXVI.     On the Preservation of Seeds, the Use of Lime in         Agri
   culture, and former Stale of Cultivation in Scotland.              By
    Mr. Ga^in Inglis.
                            Te  Mr. Tilhch.
 Sir, —   I  Do not know what philosophical attention may have
been bestowed on the self-preservation         of seeds, or the appa
 rent spontaneous evolution of indigenous plants.           The subject
is certainly interesting, and may well claim the attentive regard
of those whose leisure and abilities may be fit for this branch of
instructive knowledge.       From the little experience and scanty
opportunity    of  observation  that have fallen to my lot, I can do
nothing towards the elucidation of so important a research ; but
from the memorandums of what has come within my practice, I
shall select a few occurrences that struck me as deserving of no-         *
tice, and which, although not conclusive in themselves, may still be
of some use to others better qualified for the task. From what
 I have observed, I am very much inclined to think that seeds,
particularly those of the oily kinds, when mixed with cold earth,
and lying at a depth in dry soil beyond the congenial influence
of the sun's vivific rays, will never lose their vital atom, or ve
getative principle, but will remain for ever dormant, unless b
design or accident the substratum be raised, and the seed-bed
brought within the reach of the sun's influence.            These seeds
must owe their incorruptibility to some self-preserving principle,
and their dormancy to the debarred approach of the solar
streams of light.       Without admitting some such ratiocination,
how is it possible to reconcile or account for the spontaneous
production of the great variety of plants and flowers, apparently
                                                                      new

 Agriculture, and former State       of Cultivation in Scotland.  487
 new to the spot, that mere culture calls into existence, or which the
  bare melioration of a once waste surface, without at all disturb
 ing the dormant subsoil, has been known to produce ? These ve
  getables can only have been protected from corruption, by a
 self-protecting principle inherent in previously existing seeds or
 germs, now by the hand of cultivation roused from their lethar
 gic bed, and brought within the penetrating power of oxygenous
  light, displaying their love of life, in their tenaciously contend
 ing with, and overcoming, the utmost efforts of the cultivator to
 destroy their priority of right to unfold their beauties on their
 natal soil.
     I have known in swards whose surface to all appearance had
 Iain for ages in undisturbed repose, (when broken up and the sub
 soil turned towards the sun, and the new surface pulverised by
 the rake or the harrow,) an entire new race of vegetables in due
 time rise, take place of those now subsoiled, claim possession
 of the land of their nativity, and flourish in all the exuberant
 pride of new existence. — Lime the field, and a still greater abun
 dance and variety will be produced.
     A flower border that had been overrun with poppies was
 trenched down to thicken the soil, and get quit of the incum
 bents : sixteen years after, when there was not, and had not
 been a poppy in the garden for sometime, — for experiment sake-
 I retrenched the same ground, and brought back the buried
 soil to the surface, and a most plenteous blow of the strongest
 poppy and finest flower was produced.             The seed of these
 plants must     have  lain in a quiescent state during the whole of
that period, secluded from the life-giving rays of light, and
secured against corruption and decay by the sheltering shield of
 nature, interposed to save her banished offspring from extinc
 tion.
     A plot of red broeoli had been allowed to shoot, and was in
full flower; part of the under blossom had recently dropped off,
and the seed-pod but barely formed, when the whole was hacked
down with the spade, and buried in digging for a new crop.
Next season, when this ground was again turned over, the bro
eoli leaves and stems were found completely consumed, except
the more ligneous fibres of the roots and under stock.           In a
short time after, I was very much surprised to observe the new
made ground, that had received neither seed nor plant for that
season, completely covered with a seed leaf of one uniform shade
and appearance.       Upon examination I found it was no common
weed, but could not allow myself to suppose'it was brocolii It
however turned out to be so, and allowing it to stand, I had the
most abundant crop of broeoli plants ; nor did the whole evolve
the first year.    The blow of broeoli continued for a succession
                                  E e 3                             of
    <

438      On the Preservation   of  Seeds, the Use   of Lime in
of years, upon every subsequent turning over of the surface,
regularly diminishing in numbers, but did not entirely disappear
for a series of years.     These plants must have been produced
from seed of the brocoli completely fructified even in embryo,
and while yet in flower, and in this very earlv stage of maturi-
zation, having acquired all the requisite principles to preserve and
fortify it against corruption. I am of opinion that these germs
might have remained in a quiescent state of complete preserva
tion for myriads of ages, had nothing occurred to disturb their
repose, ready to burst their fetters at any future period of the
world, on being turned up to the vivifying light of the sun, and
pour forth their foliage and flower in gratitude to their original
creator and all-powerful preserver.
    I remember a cart loaded with lime, hot from the kiln, acci
dentally breaking down while passing through Auchmoor.           Not
to impede the road, the lime shells were removed from the cart
and laid on a spot adjoining, closely covered with moss and short
bushy heather.      Before another cart could be procured to carry
off the lime, a heavy shower fell, and had considerably slacked
the shells.    Notwithstanding all the care in gathering k up, a
portion   of the dusty mineral was unavoidably lost, and remained
amongst the moss and roots of the heather.         Subsequent rains
washed it completely into the turf.      The moss and heath were
soon destroyed, and fmally died away.         The frosts of the fol
lowing winter opened the surface soil ; succeeding thaws and
rains washed the lime into the softened earth, dissolving and
sinking deeper and deeper by every returning shower, till the
lime, completely mixed and neutralized with the soil, having
laid bare the once moss-grown and heath-covered spot, now
gave birth to a more congenial race, which was soon seen pour
ing forth, and still continues to teem with an overflowing vege
tation of all the richest grasses of the climsite, intermixed with
native white clover of the sweetest flavour.         The fresh-burnt
 lime could neither contain nor communicate the germs of this
 vegetable race.    Their primitive identity must have previously
 lived in this soil, but become dormant by the germs being hid
 under the matted turf, and the all-animating rays of light and
 heat (which I am inclined to consider only separate terms for
 the same vivific substance) completely debarred and excluded
 by the thick covering of moss and heather, now removed by the
 renovating action of the mineral.
     Many of the greatest acquisitions now possessed by man, and
  improved by intelligence and industry, have been of accidental
  discovery ; and some such occurrence as the foregoing must first
  have laid open to human view the meliorating quality and great
  importance of lime to the progressive improvements in agricul
                                                                 ture,

    Agriculture, and former State of Cultivation in Scotland. 439
ture, which, although comparatively of very recent application,
by the present race, has certainly been of the highest utility,
and in many districts, under intelligent management, has pro
duced most wonderful effects. These beneficial effects, however,
have been chiefly confined to the earlier districts and infield
 lands.     The great and incalculable results to be derived from a.
 liberal application of this invaluable mineral, I am of opinion,
 have in a great measure been lost to the outfield and upland di
 stricts, by its being far too sparingly bestowed, not excepting di
 visions of the country where it is abundant and cheap.           The
 matured improvement of these lands cau only be retarded from,
 the proprietors or cultivators not being sufficiently conversant
 with the great chemical changes effected by the free use of this
 corrective stimulant.     To late, cold, stubborn soils, it is almost
 impossible to estimate its value or appreciate its worth, or to
 overdo such ground with quantity, provided it be duly wrought
 into and intermixed with the soil. Upon the contrary, an abun
 dant and repeated application, with intelligent and attentive
  workings, will have the effect of creating an artificial climate,
  which never can be otherwise attained, and never will fail in ren
 dering the spot on which it has been copiously applied, a marked
  degree earlier in all time coming than all the surrounding coun
  try of the same stratum. • Its plentiful and superabundant appli
  cation has the effect of changing the original colour of the soil,
  from whatever may have been its primitive aspect, through alt
  the various gradations of hue to the deep absorbing black, add
  ing additional climate in every darkening shade, by communi
  cating an increased capacity to absorb, retain and digest the
  nutrific life-disclosing rays of light, and, in due proportion as
  adding to this attractive and conducive power, deducting from
   the local altitude or latitude of the field.  Hence the absurdity
   of starving the land in cold, late countries, whitening the can
   kered steril surface with the same sparing, niggardly parsimony,
   that an old gutless miser would dust the antiquated curls of his
   great-grandfather's   musty wig, from the scanty portion of flour
  just measured out to prepare a saltless dumpling, or tasteless
   pudding, the fashionless shove-over for a stingy meal.       Disap
   pointed in what the spiritless parsimony of the occupant con
   siders or expected as an adequate return for the money and labour
   bestowed in this over-rated exertion, the free use of lime has
   in many instances been neglected, blaming the non-effect instead
   of the non-application of the mineral on certain soils ; whereas
   nothing was wanting but spirit and enterprise to bestow an ever
    lasting blessing on himself and posterity by a liberal lavhliment
    on the hitherto unproductive fields, to have secured a ten-fold
    compensation in proportion to the amplitude of the donation, by
                                  E e 4                             the

 440                New Experiments on        some   of
 the return its fostering influence must have given, and adding
 to the soil a quality it never would have relinquished, and con
 tinued yearly gratefully to repay.
     In travelling over the country, it has often most forcibly struck
 me, that Scotland must have been, at some very remote peridd
 of its history, under a far more extensive system of cultivation
 than it is at the present highly improved and enlightened state
 of the nation ; and conducted with a knowledge and skill that
 the present incumbents are not verv apt to allow their forefathers
 to have possessed.      There are fields and pasture walks that bear
^strong   and  marked   impressions of long continued cultivation, of
 which even the unprecedented prices of the late war have never
 tempted -the present occupants to resume the ploughing.               I am
 also of opinion, that the use of lime as a manure has been known
 to the cultivators of antiquity; not from any remains of it that
 can be traced in the soil, except the comparison of colour be
 tween the infield and outfield land ; but from the extensive ex
 cavations of various lime rocks, which never could have been
 otherwise consumed.        The royal residence, the baronial keep-
 safe, or churches and religious establishments, were the prin
 cipal, perhaps the only architectural applications of this mineral
 in the early ages.      The humble vassal and dependant were lite
 rally  burrowed   in the   earth.    But I am inclined to think that
 much of that excavation of lime must have been long before the
 commencement of ecclesiastical history, (from no monkish re
 cords being to be found regarding this,) and when the nation
 must have been far more populous than it is at present.                  No
 farmer could ever be stimulated to plough and raise grain with
 out an adequate compensation ; grain could only be cultivated
 to feed and be consumed.          The ploughing and consumption of
 any country must always bear a due proportion ; domestic con
 sumption alone must have been the object, &c.
                                    Yours ever,
                                                         Gavin Inglis.
 LXVII.    New Experiments on some of the Combinations of Phos
    phorus.     By Sir H . Davy, LL. D. F. R. S. Vice Pres. R.I.*
 In    a paper published in the Transactions of the Royal Society,
 for 1812, I have detailed a number of experiments on phospho
 rus, from which I deduced the composition of some of its com
 pounds with oxygen, with hydrogen, and with chlorine.               Since
 the appearance of this paper,various researches have been brought
 forward on the same subject, in which some results, dfrTering very
    * From the Transactions of the
                                   Royal Society of London, 1818, Part  II.
                                                                      much

                    the Combinations   of Phosphorus.               441
much from each other, and from mine,          are stated.   I ventured
to conclude that the phosphoric acid contained        double the quan
tity of oxygen to that in the phosphorous acid       ; and that phos
phoric acid contained about 3-5ths of its weight of oxygen.
     M. Berzelius considers the oxygen in phosphoric acid to be
 128-17, and M. Dulong, 124-5, the phosphorus being 100. M.
Dulong and M. Berzelius suppose the quantity of oxygen in
phosphorous acid to be to that in phosphoric acid as 3 to 5.
     The motive which immediately induced me to resume the in
quiry respecting the phosphoric combinations, was M. Dulong'*
paper. This ingenious chemist has not only endeavoured to
establish new proportions in the known compounds of phospho
 rus, but has likewise attempted to prove the existence of two
new acids of phosphorus; and has denied several facts which I
considered as sufficiently established.
     The details which I have to lay before the Society in the fol
lowing pages, will serve to correct and fix, I hope, with tolerable
 accuracy, the proportional number or equivalent of phosphorus,
 and at the same time will show the truth of the general series
 of proportions that I assigned to its compounds. In a case
 where my conclusions differ so materially from those of M. Ber
 zelius and Dulong, it may be supposed that I have not adopted
 them without considerable caution ; and I have preferred my own
 results to theirs, only because they have been confirmed by mi-*
 nute and repeated experiments.
     I was certain from various experiments, made both long ago
 and recently, and the results of which had been confirmed by
  Mr. Brande, that the proportion of oxygen, which M. Dulong
  assigns to phosphoric acid, is considerably smaller than that de
 noted by the combustion of small quantities of phosphorus in
 oxygen gas.      I knew that minute portions of phosphuretted hy
 drogen were separated from phosphorus by Voltaic electricity ;
  and it occurred to me as possible, that water might be formed in
 the combustion of phosphorus, and separated from the phosphoric
 acid when it entered into saline and metallic combinations.         To
  ascertain if this were the case, I passed phosphorus to saturation
  through red-hot lime in a green glass tube connected with a mer-
 curio-pneumatic apparatus: the combination took place with
  vivid ignition ; hut no elastic fluid was produced.     A portion of
  the phosphuret of lime formed, was introduced into a tray of
  platinum, and heated in a glass retort filled with oxygen gas ; the
  phosphuret of lime burnt brilliantly, and became partly converted
  into phosphate of lime ; but on restoring the original tempera
  ture of the retort, there was no appearance of vapour or of mois
  ture.
     Having examined the phosphate of lime formed in this opera
                                                                  tion,

442                    New Experiments on some         of
tion, and satisfied myself that it was the same as that formed by
other methods, it became evident that there were no sources of
error in the experiments on the combustion of phosphorus in oxy
gen gas, arising from the formation or separation^ water; and
the only circumstance which could be urged against the accuracy
of processes on this combustion, was the small quantity of ma
terials* on which they had been made.
     The vividness and rapidity of the combustion of phosphorus,
renders it impossible to burn considerable quantities of phos
phorus in the common way in glass vessels.             Phosphuret of lime
burns much more slowly and less intensely.                I endeavoured to
ascertain the quantity of oxygen absorbed by a given weight of
phosphorus converted into phosphuret of lime ; but the experi
ment did not succeed.           Though the phosphuret of lime was in
fine powder and distributed over a large surface, yet the phos
phate of lime which formed and fused on the exterior, defended
 the interior of the phosphuret from the action of the oxygen, and
 prevented its combustion.
     After various unsuccessful trials to convert considerable quan
 tities of phosphorus into phosphoric acid by combinations con
 taining oxygen, I at last thought of a very simple mode of burn
 ing phosphorus, which answered perfectly.
     Phosphorus requires a considerable heat for its volatilization.
 By inclosing it in a small tube, so constructed that the phos
 phorus cau burn in vapour only from the aperture of the tube,
 large quantities of it may be burnt by the heat of a spirit-lamp
 in a retort filled with oxygen, and the absorption of oxygen and
 the quantity of phosphoric acid formed may be minutely ascer
 tained.
     The accompanying sketch (PI. V. fig. 1.) will give an idea of
 the apparatus. The neck of the little curved tube, or small distill
 ing retort, after the phosphorus is introduced, is drawn out, and
 an aperture left of about 1- 10th of an inch; it should not. be smaller,
 or it becomes choked by the phosphoric acid formed.                  Regu
  lating the heat by raising or lowering the spirit-lamp, the com
  bustion may be carried on slowly, or rapidly, at pleasure.
      Operating in this way, I have often burnt from 5 to 10 grains
  of phosphorus withous any accident, and ascertained exactly the
  quantity of oxygen absorbed : there is only one source of error
  — a quantity of phosphorus remains in the upper part of the tube,
  which cannot be burnt except by a greater heat than the retort
     * A source of error might    be suspected in carbon combined with phos
  phorus ; but I have been convinced by experiments made on the action of
  chlorine on the phosphorus I employed, that it contained no appreciable
  quantity of carbon. I suspect that what is olten taken for carburet of phos
  phorus, is in reality a red oxide.

                    the Combinations       of Phosphorus.                443
will   beat- ; and it is difficult to ascertain the precise weight of this,
as the tube always unites with some phosphoric acid where it is
red hot at its mouth ; but this can be only a trifling source of
error.                                                                         <
     In these experiments,       and in all the others detailed in this
paper,     1 received much     useful assistance from Mr. Faraday of the
Royal     Institution  ; and   much   of their value, if they shall be found
to possess any, will be owing to his accuracy and steadiness of
manipulation.
     Experiment I. — Six grains of phosphorus.              The small tube
with the phosphorus weighed before the combustion 56-5 grains ;
after the combustion 50-9 ; so that it had increased 4-10ths; and
this increase was in great measure from phosphorus that had
escaped combustion ; and when this was burnt out by a strong
red heat, the increase of weight of the tube was under 1- 10th :
so that at least 5 9 of phosphorus had been converted into acid :
23-5 cubical inches of oxygen were absorbed: thermometer being
at 46° Fahrenheit; barometer 29-b' inches.
     Experiment II. — Ten grains of phosphorus.               The glass tube
containing      the  phosphorus weighed        103•1  grains;   after the ex
periment 95•6 ;       but    much    phosphorus    remained    unconsumed.
After the tube had been heated to redness, it weighed 94 grains;
so that at least 8-4 grains of phosphorus were consumed in the
 first process.      The absorption of gas was 34 cubical inches.
 Barometer 29•8; thermometer 47°.
     Experiment III. — Ten grains of phosphorus.                By weighing
 the tube after the experiment, and then distilling and burning
 the residual phosphorus, it was found that 9•1 grains of phos
 phorus had been burnt, which had absorbed 35-25 cubical inches
 of oxygen.       Barometer 29-7; thermometer 49° Fahrenheit.
      I give these experiments as the most accurate 1 have made.
 The pressure and temperature vary so little, that the corrections
 for them are of no importance.              Supposing that 100 cubical
 inches of oxygen (the barometer being between 29•8 and 29•6,
 and the thermometer between 46J ant) 49° Fahrenheit) weigh
 33•9 grains, phosphoric acid will be composed, according to the
 first result, of 100 phosphorus to 135 oxygen ; according to the
 second, of 100 to 137•2 ; and according to the third, of 100 to
  131-3: the mean will be 100 to 134 5.
      The light of the phosphorus burning in vapour in these expe
 riments was excessively bright ; yet the top of the retort never
 became softened ; and the phosphoric acid, which increased the
  weight of the tube, principally combined with the glass at the
  aperture where it was red hot.          I cannot but coiisider this pro
  cess of burning phosphorus in the gaseous state in a great ex
  cess of oxygen, as the most accurate mode that has yet been de
                                                                         vised

444                 New Experimenls     on some  of
vised for ascertaining the composition of phosphoric acid. In this
instance no phosphorous acid, as I ascertained by direct trials,
is formed form the vapour ; and no substances are concerned ex
cept those that actually combine.      M. Dulong's method of as
certaining the composition of phosphoric acid, appears to me
much too complicated to afford any results approaching to ac
curacy.     He first combines copper wire with phosphorus, by
passing phosphorus over it by means of a stream of hydrogen
gas ; he then dissolves his phosphuret of copper in nitric acid,
and determines the quantity of phosphoric acid formed by pre
cipitation : in all of which processes sources of error may exist.
    M. Berzelius's methods of ascertaining the composition of
phosphoric acid, that of reviving gold from its oxide by means of
phosphorus, and that of determining the quantities of phosphate
and muriate of silver formed from perphosphorane, or the per-
chloride of phosphorus, appear to me still more exceptionable ;
yet his results on the quantity of oxygen approach nearer to mine
than those of M. Dulong.
   The facts which 1 endeavoured to establish respecting chlorine,
in a paper published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1810,
show that the proportional or equivalent volume in which chlo
rine combines, is to that in which oxvgen combines, as 2 to 1 ;
and it follows, that 10 grains of phosphorus in forming the white
sublimate, or perehloride, ought to combine with between 76 and
SO cubical inches of chlorine.
    In experiments that I formerly made on this subject, by ad
mitting chlorine to phosphorus in exhausted vessels, and ascer
taining the absorption by introducing solution of chlorine, I over
rated the absorption.    I did not at that time know, what I have
since ascertained, that a solution of chlorine in water, a^rparently
saturated with chlorine, by agitation with it in long narrow vessels,
will still take up more, bv exposure to a great surface of chlorine
in larger vessels.   Under all circumstances, it is difficult to gain
very precise results in experiments on the action of phosphorus
on chlorine.     Mercury acts so rapidly upon chlorine, that it can
not be employed in experiments in which the absorption is to be
determined.      When common water is used, some of the gas is
absorbed by the water, and, the sublimate being a very volatile
substance, its vapour always increases the volume of the residual
gas.     Some aqueous vapour likewise, in experiments over water,
enters with the gas, which forms a volatile hydrate, the effect of
which is likewise to diminish the apparent absorption of chlo
rine.
    I have always found  the absorption greatest, when    I have ope
rated in small retorts, connected by small stop-cocks with the
vessel containing the chlorine, over water.      Milking the proper
                                                           corrections

                   the Combinations  of Phosphorus.              445
corrections for the absorption by the water, the apparent absorp
tion has been from 35 to 38 cubical inches for every five grains
of phosphorus.
     M. Dulong's    two methods of ascertaining the quantity of chlo
rine in the sublimate, appear to me at least as objectionable as
his process for determining the composition of phosphoric acid,
and liable to great errors : the first from the uncertainty of the
absolute quantity of chlorine admitted; and the second, from the
loss arising from the vapour of the sublimate, which must be
carried off by the current of chlorine.       How great a deficiency
may originate from the last circumstance, is shown by the fol
lowing experiment. Five grains of phosphorus were converted
into sublimate by chlorine in great excess, the remaining chlo
rine was displaced by passing common air through the vessel for
some time, till not the slightest smell of chlorine could be per
ceived ; the retort was then weighed, and a current of air passed
through it. Though this current could hardly have replaced the
air contained in the retort, yet the loss of weight was 1'7 grain,
and copious vapours were produced in the atmosphere. In a se
cond trial of the same kind, there was a greater loss of weight:
and by barely exhausting the retort, and then again admitting
air, there was a loss of 7-10ths of a grain.
     When chlorine is made to act upon phosphorus over mercury
not carefully dried, some muriatic acid gas is always formed ;
butwhen the mercury has been recently boiled, no effect of this
kind is produced, and the vapour in the gas forms a minute
quantity of a liquid hydrate of the perchloride, which, by more
water, is converted into muriatic and phosphoric acids, as I
proved by some very delicate experiments ; so that there is cer
tainly no hydrogen denoted in phosphorus by the action of
chlorine, and in their mutual action a mere binary compound of
the two substances is formed.
     After reflecting much upon the methods of combining chlo
rine and phosphorus, so as to gain correct results, it occurred to
me, that in operating over water, and introducing a perfectly
saturated solution of chlorine to absorb the vapour of the subli
 mate and of its hydrate formed from the water in the chlorine,
 I  should gain a result nearly correct.       I made an experiment
 in 'fhis way on four grains of phosphorus, in a retort containing
  13 cubical inches.     I ascertained the absorption, introduced
 into the retort a tube, containing about half a cubical inch of
 saturated solution of chlorine, and suffered the fluid slowly to
 act upon the sublimate, cooling the retort by immersion in
 water : I then ascertained the degree of the second absorption,
 which was nearly a cubical inch and a half.        I likewise ascer
 tained that water had its powers of dissolving chlorine dimi
                                                              nished,

  446                 New Experiments on         some  of
  nished, and not increased, by uniting with phosphoric and mu
  riatic acids, so that the apparent absorption must have been less
  than the real one.       Adding the second absorption to the first,
  and making the proper corrections,            the quantity of chlorine
  uniting to four grains of phosphorus was 31 '9 cubical inches;
  barometer being 30' 1 inches, and thermometer 46° Fahrenheit.
     Rather a larger proportion would be given, if the correction
  for the presence of vapour had been made for some of the other
  experiments : and the result agrees exactly with the mean de
  duced from the absorption of oxygen in the formation of phos
  phoric acid ; for, assuming that 100 cubical inches of chlorine
  weigh 76•5 grains, then the sublimate will consist of one of
  phosphorus to nearly six of chlorine ; and taking the composi
  tion of phosphoric acid from this datum, it would consist of 100
  of phosphorus and 135 of oxygen.
     To ascertain the composition of phosphorous acid, I used a
  new method, that of converting the perchloride of phosphorus,
  or perphosphorane       by phosphorus,       into the chloride which
  affords phosphorous acid by the action of water.          This is easily
  done by heating them together in a close retort ; and it enables
  us to determine with certainty, which opinion is correct, that
  assuming the oxygen in phosphorous acid to be three, or -that
  which supposes it to be 2'5, the oxygen in phosphoric acid
  being five.
     Five grains of phosphorus were converted into perchloride in
  a small retort of the capacity of six cubical inches : it was neces
  sary to exhaust this retort twice, to remove the residual common
  air mixed with the chlorine, and some perchloride must have
  been lost during this process.         A small quantity of chlorine,
  which could have been little more than sufficient to compensate
  for the loss, remained in the retort.       Five grains of phosphorus
  were  introduced,    and  the  retort suffered   to remain filled, prin
  cipally with common air ; heat was very slowly applied ; all the
  phosphorus, except an atom not so big as the head of a small
  pin, disappeared, and a little of the sublimate still remained,
  when the retort burst from the expansion of the vapour of the
  new chloride formed ; but the chloride found on the fragments
  was pure, and held no phosphorus in solution.
     A second experiment was made in a retort of the capacity ot
  1 1 cubical  inches.    Five grains of phosphorus were converted
  into perchloride : the retort was twice completely exhausted, by
  which at least a grain and a half or two grains of perchloride
  must have been lost.        Five grains of phosphorus were intro-
. duced ; a little of the sublimate was lost by falling into the stop
  cock of the retort ; yet the conversion of the phosphorus by
  heat into the liquor was almost complete; there remained only
                                                                  a minute

                        the Comlinations   of   Phosphorus.              447
a minute    fragment.     In this experiment, however, the liquor
held phosphorus in solution.          When this phosphorus was pre
cipitated by    water,  and obtained    with the fragment by sublima
tion in a small glass tube, it did not equal 7-10ths of a grain,
and was no more than could be expected from the loss of the
sublimate.
    These two experiments prove distinctly that the oxygen in
phosphorous acid is half that in phosphoric acid ; for if the
proportion had been that which M. Dulong and M. Berzelius
indicate, 1•67 grains of phosphorus, at least, ought to have
remained after the action of the sublimate.
    A collateral experiment was made. 3'2'7 grains of the fluid
chloride, made by passing phosphorus through corrosive subli
mate in great excess, were acted on by water, and precipitated
by nitrate of silver ; the precipitate was immediately separated
from the fluid, after it had been greatly diluted with distilled
water.     Distilled water was then repeatedly passed through             it,
and it   was dried and fused, when       weighed 98'4 grains
                                           it                     which,
                                                                     ;
allowing 24•5 per cent, of chlorine in horn silver, would give
the composition of the fluid chloride as 24'IOS of chlorine, and
8-592 of phosphorus.
    The comparative quantity of precipitate            this experiment
                                                          in
was so much less than        had found in a former experiment, that,
                              I
notwithstanding the care with which the process had been con
ducted,   I  resolved to make some more experiments of the same
kind. In the first, in which the decomposition                  by
                                                              water was
made     in  small bottle, from which no vapour could escape, and
              a
in which      Isuperintended the weighing and drying of the horn
silver formed, with the greatest care, 18-4 of the liquid chlo
ride afforded only 54•5 of chloride of silver, which agrees as
nearly as could be expected with the former experiment. In two
 other experiments, made with equal care, and                 which the
                                                               in
liquid was poured into        solution of nitrate of silver, six grains
                               a
gave 17•1 of horn silver, and 29•4 gave 89-9 of fused horn
 silver.
     In examining minutely the circumstances of the action of the
liquid chloride, or solutions containing phosphorous and muria
tic acids, or nitrate of silver,     Ifound no difficulty      in
                                                              explaining
the cause of the error in the former experiments.           Phosphorous
acid acts upon nitrate of silver, and more rapidly in proportion
to its concentration, and gradually produces            copious precipi
                                                          a
tate from     it so that
                  ;         there be an excess of nitrate of silver,
                             if
and the precipitate be not immediately separated from the solu-
t'on, there        always
                   is         considerable increase of weight.
                               a                                      M.
 Dulong, and M. Berzelius, whose experiments agree with my
former ones, may have been misled                by
                                                precipitation from the
                                                      a
                                                                  nitrate

448                      New Experiments on            some   of
 nitrate of silver by phosphorous acid, as I am sure       was. M.       I
 Berzelius does not state how he prepared his liquid chloride of
phosphorus ; but M. Dulong, who objects to my process by cor
 rosive sublimate, and employs, instead of                    it,
                                                      the action                  of
chlorine on phosphorus in forming his fluid, must have been
exposed to other sources of error.       He speaks of acting on dry
 phosphorus     bydry chlorine    but
                                  ;      must be always extremely
                                             it
difficult to free   gas that cannot be kept over mercury, of all
                     a
its vapour  ;  and as perchloride always forms during the action                  of
phosphorus on chlorine,       apart of which produces a fluid, and
easily volatile hydrate with water, and soluble in       proportions1
                                                                    1
in the liquid chloride, this process must be very liable to error.
I  have never been able to form the perchloride, even from chlo
rine slowly passed through muriate of lime, without producing
a small quantity of liquid hydrate of perchloride, which, when
the solid perchloride was converted into liquid                by
                                                     more phospho
rus, rose in vapour with          it,
                                  and which, containing nearly                    a
double quantity of chlorine, (for the water forms a very small
part of it,) occasions the precipitation of      much larger quan
                                                        a
tity of horn silver than the pure chloride formed from corrosive
sublimate.
    These various experiments on the combination of phosphorus
with oxygen and chlorine, sufficiently agree with each other to
afford the means of determining the proportion         which phos   in
phorus combines with other bodies, or its equivalent number
considered as an element.
    If the absorption of oxygen be considered as offering the
data, and phosphoric acid be supposed to consist of two propor
tions of oxygen, and one of phosphorus, the number repre
senting the proportion in which phosphorus combines, will be
22-3.   If   phosphoric acid be considered as consisting of four
proportions of oxygen, the proportional number or equivalent
of phosphorus will be 44•6.
    If the absorption of chlorine in forming phosphorane be made
the datum, the number will be the same, 22•2, or the double,
44•4.     If the quantity of horn silver formed from the liquid
chloride, taking the fipean of all the experiments, be assumed as
the datum, the number would be 23'5, or the double 47             the        :
mean of all these proportions         22-G, or the double 45,2; or
                                        is
taking away decimals, 45.
   In referring to the analyses which have been made of the dif
ferent combinations of phosphoric acid, for the purpose of ascer
tainingif   they correspond with this number,     found the data
                                                              I
so uncertain and so discordant, that    was impossible to form
                                                  it
any conclusions from them.    The phosphate of soda, as    well              is
known, has alkaline properties yet, according to M. Berzelius,
                                        ;

                 the Combinations  of Phosphorus.              449
it contains but     17•67  of soda to 20•33 of acid; whereas it
ought to contain, according to the proportion indicated by my
experiments, (if neutral,) nearly an equal weight of soda. M.Ber-
zelius mentions several combinations of baryta and lime with
phosphoric acid, of which only two approach to a correspond
ence with the number I have given for phosphorus ; that con
taining 45 -5 of acid to 48-7 of lime ; and that containing 39• 1
of acid to 60'8-of barytes.      New researches are required to
explain the anomalies presented by the phosphates.
   I shall give three experiments on the quantity of hydrate of
potassa necessary for saturating given quantities of phosphoric
acid made from given weights of phosphorus.
   Eighteen grains of phosphorus converted into phosphoric acid
by combustion in oxygen, required for its saturation 47 grains of
dry hydrate of potassa.
   5•7 grains of phosphorus converted into acid, required 14•7
of hydrate of potassa.
   Five grains of phosphorus converted into perchloride,        de
manded, to produce perfect neutralization, 6S grains of hydrate
of potassa.
   These three experiments agree so well with each other, and
with the proportionate number gained from the absorption of
chlorine and oxygen by phosphorus, that it is impossible not to
put confidence in them.
    If 13•1 be considered as the quantity of hydrate of potassa
required to neutralize the phosphoric acid formed in the last ex
periment, and the 54-9 of hydrate remaining, be supposed to
contain 43 grains of potassa, then the chlorine required to expel
the oxygen from the potassa would be rather more than 40 cu
bical inches.
   We owe to the ingenuity of M. Dulong the discovery of an
acid, which he names the hypophosphorous acid, and which he
supposes to contain half the quantity of oxygen in the phospho
rous acid.    I have satisfied myself as to the correctness of his
views respecting the existence of this acid, and the properties
of its compounds ; but I cannot regard the method he has
adopted for its analvsis as entitled to confidence.      He takes a
given quantity of hypophosphite of soda, acts upon this by
chlorine, converts the excess of chlorine into muriatic acid, pre
cipitates by nitrate of silver and earthy salts, and from the com
parison of all these data, in which some substances of uncertain
composition may be concerned, draws his conclusions.
    I have found that the neutral hypophosphite of barytes, when
acted on by heat in close vessels, is converted into acid phos
phate of barytes, disengaging an elastic fluid, which is almost
   Vol. 52. No.243. Dec. 1318.              F f             entirely

 450               Neiv Experiments on      some of
 entirely the hydrophosphoric     gas, or phosphuretted hydrogen
 saturated with phosphorus.      I say almost entirely, because in
 the beginning of the process,   a little gas spontaneously inflam
 mable is produced, and a minute quantity of moisture appears :
 and when the heat is raised to redness, a very little phosphorus
 is produced, probably from the decomposition of a part of the
 phosphoric gas. Now supposing the quantity of phosphoric acid
 in phosphate of baryta known, and the quantity of phosphorus
 in phosphuretted hydrogen known ; it is very easy, from an ac
 curate experiment on the decomposition of the hypophosphite of
 baryta, to learn the composition of hypophosphorous acid.
    I made two experiments on this subject ; in one, 50 grains of
 dry hypophosphite of barytes were used, and the distillation con
 ducted in a small glass tube.       About 23•25 cubical inches of
 gas were produced.     The loss of weight of the apparatus could
 not be ascertained, as unluckily a little of the phosphate was
lost; a small portion of phosphorus was deposited in the upper
part of the tube, from the decomposition of a minute quantity
of the bi -phosphuretted gas ; but this could not have equalled
the 4-10ths of a grain, as the tube only lost 4-10ths by being
heated to whiteness.
    In the second experiment, 29 grains of the hypophosphite
were used, and the loss of weight only ascertained, which was
3-5 grains.    To be able to form any opinion as to the compo
sition of the hypophosphorous acid, it was necessary to ascer
tain the composition of the phosphate of baryta produced in
these experiments ; which was easily done by precipitating a
given quantity of the hypophosphite of barytes by sulphate of
soda in solution.   Fifteen grains of hypophosphite of barytes,
in an experiment very carefully made, afforded 11•3 of sulphate
of barytes.   Now, supposing this sulphate of barytes to contain
7'4 of baryta, the hypophosphite would consist of 7'4 of ba
ryta, and 7-6 of hypophosphorous acid ; and 13' 1 of the acid
phosphate of baryta, formed from its decomposition,           would
contain 5-7 phosphoric acid, and 7'4 baryta.      And in the expe
riment in which 29 grains of hypophosphite of baryta were de
composed, supposing the whole loss of weight to be owing to
perphosphuretted hydrogen given otT, and this gas to be com
posed of 22-5 of phosphorus to 4 of hydrogen, or of 5-29 hy
drogen to 29•76 phosphorus, and the 25-5 of acid phosphate
remaining composed of 14-47 baryta nearly, and 11-03 phos
phoric acid, adding the 29-76 of phosphorus to the 4•72 in the
phosphoric acid, and subtracting iJ9, the quantity of oxygen
required to form water with the 5-24 of hydrogen, the hypo
phosphorous acid may be conceived to be composed of 7•69
                                                       phosphorus,

                  the Combinations  of  Phosphorus.            451
 phosphorus, and 2•54, which denotes rather less than half the
 oxygen in phosphorous acid: i. e. as 7•43 to 1•5, an approxi
 mation nearer than could have been expected.
    Assuming the composition of the phosphuretted gas to be
 what is stated in the preceding page, which agrees very nearly
 with an experiment which I formerly made, the first experiment
 on the quantity of gas disengaged would give a proportion of
 oxygen rather less than that which has been just calculated
 upon ; but it must be remembered, that a certain quantity of
 common phosphuretted hydrogen is produced, which contain
 ing less hydrogen in a given volume, would sufficiently explain
 the difference of result.
    M. Dulong has advanced an ingenious opinion, that the hy-
 pophosphorous acid may he considered as a triple compound of
 hydrogen, oxygen, and phosphorus.          There is another view
 which may be taken of its composition, namely, that it may be
 a compound of phosphoric acid and perphosphuretted hydrogen.
 Phosphuretted hydrogen, as may be deduced from some expe
 riments of M. Dulong, has the properties of a very weak alkali ;
 and when expelled from the neutral hypophosphites, they be
 come acid.     This view agrees very well with the equivalent, or
 proportional numbers, which represent phosphoric acid and
 phosphuretted hydrogen.     If it be adopted, the hypophosphites
 must be considered as triple compounds, analogous to the salts
 containing fixed alkali and earths, or ammonia and earths com
 bined with acids.
    M. Dulong imagines that the acid formed by the slow com
 bustion of phosphorus in the air, and which I have supposed to
 be a mixture of phosphorus and phosphoric acids, is a peculiar
 acid, a chemical compound of phosphorous and phosphoric acids,
 which he names phosphatic acid.       I cannot say that his argu
 ments give much probability to this opinion.       This substance
lias no crystalline form, no marked character which distinguishes
it from a mere mixture of phosphorous and phosphoric acids ;
and as far as my experiments have gone, it is far from uniform
in its composition ; and phosphorous and phosphoric acids mixed
together, produce a substance of exactly the same kind.
    That a mixture of phosphorous and phosphoric acids should
be produced by the slow combustion of phosphorus, is not sur
prising, when it is considered that this phaenomenon is connected
with different chemical processes, viz. the action of the vapour
of phosphorus upon air, the action of solid phosphorus upon the
elastic atmosphere, and upon the air dissolved in the moisture
attracted by the acids formed ; and, unless vapour be present in
the air, the process of the slow conversion of phosphorus into
acids soon stops.
                                F f2                        I have

452                  New Experiments on         some  of
    I  have   mentioned in the paper to which I have referred, in
the beginning of this communication,             that the hydrophospho-
rous acid is decomposed by      heat  ;   and  that phosphoric acid, and
perphosphuretted hydrogen are         the   results.    In examining the
nature of the phosphoric acid formed, I find that it contains
water, so that it is a hytlrated phosphoric acid.             In carefully
conducting the experiment, I find likewise, that a small propor
tion of water is given off with the perphosphuretted gas. I shall
give the results of an experiment: 1 7'5 grains of hydrophos-
phorous acid were decomposed by heat in a small glass retort
carefully weighed; 6-5 cubical inches of elastic fluid were gene
rated, and the loss of the retort was four grains.           Now, if it be
                                                    *
assumed that the hydrate of phosphoric acid remaining equalled
13-5 grains, and that it contained, according to the law of de
finite proportions, 1-8S of water, and that the bi-phosphuretted
                                                                        and
gas weighed 1-937, and consisted of 1-6446 phosphorus,
•2924 hydrogen ; then the oxygen in the phosphorous              acid   will
be to the phosphorus as 44 to 66, which is as- near a result as
can be expected.
    For 4 proportions    of phosphorous
          acid are                           300 or the double 150
    and 10 of water                           170          or         85
    which together amount to           . .    470          or       235
    which form 3 proportions of phosphoric acid 315 or               1 57•5
    with 3 of water to form the hydrate           .. .. 51 or          25-5
                                                            366"     183-0
   4 of water decomposed, of which the hydrogen
       is 8, to form with 45 of phosphorus phos-
       phuretted hydrogen                                    53 or     26-5
   3 of water given off                                      51 or     25•5
   making                                                  470 or 235-
    I have no doubt that the acid which I used formerly was drier
than the acid employed in this experiment, which will account
for the difference of the result. Supposing a hydrophosphorous
acid could be procured, containing only the quantity of water
sufficient to convert it into dry phosphoric acid, it would consist,
as I have stated in my former paper on phosphorus, of four pro
portions of water, and four proportions of phosphorous acid.
    I have adopted throughout the whole of these calculations,
the supposition that the hydrogen in water is to the oxygen as
2 to 15 : and consequently I have taken the number represent
ing oxygen as 15, which is extremely convenient, as the mul
tiples are simple, 30, 45, 60, &c.           Taking the proportion of
   * I proved it to be a hydrate by
                                    heating it with magnesia, when abun
dance of water was given off from it.
                                                                phosphoric

                   the   Comlinations of Phosphorus.                     453
phosphoric acid in phosphate of potassa, which may be de
duced from the experiments, page 449, it appears more conve
nient to represent the proportional number, or equivalent of
phosphorus, by 45, or 45-2, than by 22-5, or 22-6, which gives
facility in adopting either hypothesis of the composition of hy
pophosphorous acid.      If it be supposed a simple compound of
oxygen and phosphorus, the series of proportions in the acids of
 phosphorus wiil be
  Hypophosphorous acid,        Phosphorus         45            Oxygen 15
  Phosphorous acid                                45            Oxygen 30
  Phosphoric acid                               45              Oxygen 60
     o*r hypophosphorous       >  Phosphoric   acid 2  proportions      210
         acid 263       . .    <j Phosphuretted    Hydrogen 1 prop.       53
     I shall conclude this paper by a few incidental observations on
  the compounds of phosphorus.
     M. Dulong states that no phosphorous acid is formed when
 phosphorus is burnt in excess of oxygen or atmospheric air ; as,
 lie says, I have asserted.        I cannot find that I have any where
 made such' an assertion ; but notwithstanding what M. Dulong
 pretends, the assertion is true, as the following experiment will
 prove.      Half a grain of phosphorus was set fire to in a retort
 containing 16 cubical inches of common air ; the acid products
 were washed with distilled water, and passed through a filter, and
 evaporated.        When the acid became nearly dry, small globules
 of phosphuretted hydrogen were disengaged from             it,  indicating
 the presence of phosphorous acid. The experiment was repeated
 two or three times, care being taken to separate the red powder
which lias been considered as an oxide of phosphorus, and                al
ways with the same result.
    Whenever phosphorus        is    inflamed, and suffered to become
extinguished in oxygen gas in excess, unless the product                  is
strongly heated after the spontaneous combustion             is    over, an
acid, of which the hydrate produces phosphuretted hydrogen by
heat,  is    always found in the products     ;  and this acidis   probablv
produced    by    the action of the solid phosphorus o:i the phospho
ric acid in contact with it. This fact, and the circumstance,
that much phosphorous acid          is  produced        the combustion of
                                                       by
phosphorus       in rare  air, renders   italmost  certain that the phos
phorous     acid is
                 a     direct  combination   of  phosphorus and oxygen,
and destroys an idea which might otherwise be formed from the
phaenomena of the decomposition of its hydrate, namely, that
it         compound of three proportions of phosphoric acid, and
     is
     a
one of phosphuretted hydrogen.
    M. Dulong and M. Berzelius speak of freeing phosphorane,
or the liquid chloride of phosphorus, from phosphorus,              by   di
stillation.     In experiments made in the laboratory of the Royal
                                F   f    3                    Institution^

   454            Comparison     between the Chords     of Arcs
   Institution, in which it has been twice carefully distilled at a low
   heat, it has still contained minute quantities of phosphorus.
      It has been supposed that dry phosphoric acid is fixed at a
   white heat ; but I find that this is not the case : it rapidly rises
   in vapour at this temperature, and evaporates even at the point
   of fusion of flint glass : and the hydrate of phosphoric acid is
  susceptible of being volatilized at a much lower temperature.
      In converting the solid sublimate composed of phosphorus
   and chlorine into the liquid compound, when the phosphorus is
  first used in contact with the sublimate, a yellow crystalline mass
  is formed, which, when acted on by a higher degree of heat,
  affords the liquid chloride, which rises from it in vapour, and
  leaves phosphorus behind.            It is possible that this yellow solid
  is a compound of phosphorus and chlorine, containing half as much
  chlorine as the liquid.        Should this be proved to be the case by
  future exeriments, it will give weight to the idea, that the hypo-
  phosphorous acjd is a binary compoundof oxygen and phosphorus.
  LXVIII.      Comparison      between the Chords of Arcs employed by
      Ptolemy and        those now in Use. By G.A.Walker Arnott,
     A.M.
            j
               Edinburgh.
                                To  Mr. Tilloch.
 Sir, — An         a late elegant publication    (The Philosophy of Arith
 metic),    it  is  stated that the ratio of 1 to 3-1416, or of the dia
 meter to the circumference of a circle, must have been almost
 known to Claudius Ptolemy. This celebrated philosopher and
 mathematician,         and first of ancient astronomers, left behind
 him, in the third book of his Almagest, a table of the chords
 of the arcs of the circle, calculated in sexagesimals to every 30'
 or half degree, and which are found to coincide with those in
 the trigonometrical tables we at present employ, with a much
 more considerable degree of exactness than could reasonably be
 looked for from the small advances made at that time in this sub
ject.     It is therefore my purpose here to exhibit a table of com
 parison between these, the insertion of which in your Magazine
may gratify such of the curious as may not have seen the work
it$eYi of this distinguished man.
     Theirs* column contains the chords of every two degrees of
 the semicircle, as calculated by Ptolemy in sexagesimals.                In
 the second column are the         same   chords   converted  into sexagesi
 mals from our common decimal tables : and here I may add,
  that that number is taken, nearest to which, either above or be
 low, the true number approaches, when extended to thirds,
  fourths, &c. of the radius.        In the third are Ptolemy's calcula
  tions turned into      decimals  ; and in the fourth we have an ex
                                                                       tract

           employed by Ptolemy and those now in Use.                       455
tract from the trigonometrical          tables now in use. — Before in
serting the table, we may borrow the following example for the
purpose of showing how near Ptolemy approached to our cus
tomary ratio of 1 : 3•14 16 : the chord of 2° in sexagesimals to
radius £ or 60° is /3 e /x, or 2° 5' 40", which in decimals is nearly
-034907 to radius         1, and this multiplied by        _~g    = 90 gives
3•1416 nearly : now as the chord of 2° is almost the measure of
its arc, the above number may be taken as the length of the
semicircumference.
   Edinburgh,   12th November     1818.
       D.
        2U     2*   5' 40"     -1°  5'  39i"   •0349074         •0349048
        4      4 11    16      4   11   16|    •0697963         •0697990
        6      6 16    49      6 16 49         •1046713         •1046720
        8      8 22    15       8 22     15    •1395139         •1395130
       10     10   27 32      10   27 31       •1743148         •1743114
       12     12   32 36      12   32 36       -2090555         •2090570
       14     14   37 27      14   37   27i     •2437361        •2437386
       16     16   42 3       16   42 3         •2783472        •2783462
       18     18   46 19      18 46 20         •3128657         •3 1280'9O
       20     20 50 16        20 50 16          •3472963        •3472964
       22     22 53 49        22 53 4yi         •3816157        •3816180
       24     24 56 58        24 56 58          •415S261         •4158234
       26     26 59 38        26 59 39          •4498981         •449802.4
       28     29 1 50         29 1 50           •4838426         •4838438
       3o     31     3 30     31     3 30       •5176389         •5176380
       32     S3     4 35     33     4 35       •5512731         •5512748
       34     35     5   5    35 5 4i           •5847454         •5847434
       36     37     4 55     37 4 55           •61S0324         •6180340
       38     39     4   5    39 4 5i           •6511343         •6511364
       40     41     2 33     41     2 33       •6840417         •6840402
       42     43     0  15    43      0 15      •7167361         •7167358
       44     44   57   10    44 57 10          •-49213O         •7492132
       46     46   53   16    46 53 16          •7814630         •7814622
       48     48   48 30      48 48 30          •8 134722        •8 134732
       50     50    42 51     50 42 51          •8452361         -8452366
       52     52   36 16      52 36 16          •S767407         •8767422
       54     54    28 44     54 28 44          •9079815         •90798 10
        56    56    20 12     56 20 12           •9389444        •9389432
       58     58    10 38     58 10 38          •9696204
        60    60     0   0    60 O 0           10000000        1  0000000
        62    61 48 17        61 48 l6i        1-0300787       1•0300762
        64     63 35 26       63 35 25         1-0598426       1-0598386
        66    65 21 24         65 21 24        1-0892778       1-0892760
        68     67    6 12     67      6 11     1-1183889       1•1183858
        70     68 49 45        68 49 45        1-1471528       1•1471528
        n      70 32 3         70 32 3'        1-1755694       1-1755706
        74     72 13 4         72 13       4   1-2036296       1•2036300
        76     73 52 46        73   52   46    1•231 3 V6l     1-2313230
        78     75 31     7    75 31       6f   1-3586435    |  1•2586408

                 On the Chords    of Arcs.
 D.
 80  77° 8    5      77   8   4     PL- 855787     P2855752
 82   78 43  38      78 43 37|      P3I2J204       P3121180
 84   80 1/  45      80 17 44 \     1 -3382639     1-3382612
 86   81 50  24      81 SO 23       1 -3640000     P3639968
 88   P3 21  33      S3 21 32£      1  38g3194     P3893168
 90   84 51  10      84 51 IO       P4142I30       P4142I36
 9*   86 19  15      86  '9  15     P4386S06       I -4386796
 94   87 45  45      87  45 45      1-4627083      1-46270/4
 96   89 10  39      89  10 38|     P48629I7       1 -4862Sg6
 93   90 33  55      90  33 54i     1 -509421 3    15094192
100   91 55  32      91  55 31      P5320926       1 -5320888
102   93 15  27      93 15 27       r55429l7       P5542920
104   94 33  41      94 33 41       1  576023 1    P5760216
106   95 50  1 1     95 50 10l      1-5972731      1-5972710
108   0/  4 56       97   4 55      1-6 1803 70    P618034O
no    93 17 54       98 17 54       1-63S3056      1-638040
112   99 29   5.     99 29   *4     1  6580787     1-6580752
114 100 38 26      100 38    26     r 6773 426     1 67734 12
116 101 45 57      lOl 45    57     1-6960972      1 -6960962
118 102 51 37      102 51    36     P/1433SO       17143340
120 103 55 23      103 55    23     1 7320509      1 -7320508
122 104 5/ 16      104 57 16        P7492407       1-7492394
124 105  57  14    105 57 13        1-7658981      17658952
126 J 06 55  15    106 55 15        1-7820139      1-782013O
123 107 51 20      107 51 19        1  7975926     P79758SO
130 108 45 25       108 45 25       18126157       1-8126156
132 109 37 32      109 37 3 2       1 '8270926     1  8270910
134                110 27 38        P8410I39
                                i
    1 10 27 39                                     P8410098
136 111  15  44    111 15 43        P8543704       1-8543678
138 1 12   1 47    112     1 47     1 -8671  620   1-8671608
140 112 45 48      112 45 47        P8793889       1  8/93852
142 113  27 44     113   27 44      1  8910370     P89 I 0372
144 114   7 37     114    7 36*     1•9021157      1-9021130
,46 114 45 24      114 45 24        P9126111       1 9 126096
J48 115 21     6   I 15  21   5     1-9225273      1  9225234
150 115  54 40     115 54 40        P9318519       1-9318516
152 116 26 8       116 26     8     1 '9405926     1 -9405914
154 1 16 55 23     116 55 28        1 9487407      1-9487402
156 117 22 40      117 22    40     1 -9562963     1 -9562952
158 117 47 43      117 47    43     I -9632546     1 '9632544
360 118 10 37      118 10    37     1-9696157      I  9(3961 56
162 118 31 22      118 31    21     1 -9753796     1  9753766
164 118 49 56       1 13 49  56     1 -9805370     l-980536i
166 119   6 20     1 19   6  20     1 -9850926     1 -9350924
168 119 20 34      1'9   £0  33|    1 -98.()0463   1  9890438
170 119 32 37      1]9   32  36     1-9923935      1  9923894
172 119  42 29     119   42  28     1-C,951343     1-995 1282
1/4 119  50 9      119   50   8     1 -9972639   - 1 997259O
176 119  55 38     1'9 55 37        l -9987870     1-9987816
178 119  58 55     119 58 54        i'999699l      1  9996954
ISO 120   0   0    119    0 0       20000000       2 0000000
                                                           >

                              [    457    ]
  LXIX.     On the Structure  of   the poisonous   Fangs of Serpents.
               By Thomas Smith, Esq. F. R. S. *
 w    hen the poisonous fangs of serpents are attentively ex
 amined, a slit or suture may be observed extending along the
 convex side, from the foramen at the base to the aperture near
 the point. (Plate V. A. B. C. D.)      This is a consequence of an
unusual, and hitherto, I believe, entirely unnoticed structure,
 resulting from the mode of formation of the tube through which
the poison flows.                                        ,'
    My attention was called to this structure, by having lately
received from my friend Mr. Herbert Ryder, the assay master
to the mint at Madras, the bones of the skull of a cobra de ca-
pello. I had some years since noticed the slit running along
the convex side of the fang, in making a preparation of the head
of the common viper of this country, in which it is distinctly
seen when magnified ; nevertheless, it seems to have been over
looked by all the numerous authors who have written upon the
subject of the venomous fangs of the viper, and who, as? far as
structure is concerned, do not appear to have advanced beyond
Pliny, to whom, and even anterior to whose time, the circum
stance of their being tubular was well known.
    All teeth being formed fiom a pulp, which has the shape that
the tooth itself is destined to retain, it has probably been ima
gined that the tube of the poisonous fangs of serpents was pro
duced by a perforation passing through the pulp ; this is not,
however,     the case, the tube being completely external,, and
formed by a deep longitudinal depression on the surface of the
pulp.
    In order to render this more clear, I must here observe that,
a slight longitudinal furrow, or depression, is to be seen on all
the teeth of the cobra de capello ; on those which are nearest
to the poisonous fangs it is most evident, and occupies the con
vex side of their curvature ; it however is confined entirely to
the parietes of the tooth, and does not at all affect the form of
its cavity.
   But in the poisonous fangs, this depression is sunk deep into
the substance of the tooth, and occupies a portion of the space,
which in the others is allotted to the cavity which contains that
part of the pulp which remains when the tooth is completely
formed; and the edges of the depression being brought together
along the greater part of the tooth, form the slit or suture that
I have before described, but, being kept at a distance at-both
extremities, there results a foramen at the base and at the apex.
      * From the Transactions of the Royal Society for 1818, Part II.
                                                                    That

458                         On  the  Structure  of
    That this   is a correct view   of the mode in which the poisonous
tube is formed, receives additional support from what I have
observed in a species of the genus kydrus of Schneider.            In this
serpent, as in many others nearly allied to it (les hydres of
M. Cuvier), there are simple teeth on the same bone which sup
ports the poisonous fangs.          These -teeth so much resemble the
fangs, that it requires a very close investigation to distinguish
between them ; and this arises from the simple tooth having not
only a longitudinal furrow exactly resembling the edges of the slit
of the poisonous fang, but also a very visible cavity at the base,
where the foramen occurs in the others ; and I have even found
a fine tube in a tooth of this sort ; it was however confined to
the parietes, and did not affect the cavity of the tooth.
     To this gradation from a slight superficial furrow to a deep
depression, may be added the fact, that no traces of either are
observable in the teeth of those serpents which are not armed
¦with venomous fangs : this I found to be the case in a large
 species of boa.
     As a consequence of the structure that I have described, if a
horizontal section be made of a poisonous fang, in which the
 edges of the longitudinal depression are rounded, we shall have a
 cylindrical cavity (the poison tube) nearly surrounded by a semi
 lunar one (the cavity which contains the pulp).           This is shown
 in the annexed drawings of the fangs of the cobra de capello. —
 (Pl.V. E.F. G. H.)
     If, however, the edges of the depression should be angular (as
 in the rattle -snake), the horizontal seetion shows a figure some
 what different, the poison tube being more completely surrounded
 by the cavity which contains the pulp.            This is shown in the
 drawing by the section of a fang of an unknown species of serpent,
  which has exactly the same form as that of the rattle-snake, but
  is twice as large. (PI. V. I. K.)
     In sections taken at different parts of the fang, the proportions
 between the poison tube and the cavity which contains the pulp
  will be different ; the latter greatly increasing towards the base
  of the tooth ; and near the apex the poison tube only will be
  seen, the fang at that part being solid.          In a section also of a
  completely formed fang, the poison tube, at its anterior part,
  will be closely invested by the thickened parietes of the cavity
  which contains the pulp; this cavity however is never obliterated,
  but exists in all the teeth of serpents, even when they have ar
  rived at their full growth.
      In the fangs, when completely formed, the edges of the slit,
  or suture, are frequently soldered together ; when they are an
   gular, so large a surface comes in contact, that they appear to be
  united by bony matter ; in the cobra de capello, where they are
                                                                , rounded,

                          the poisonous   Fangs      of Serpents.                  459
rounded, though in very close contact, they do not cohere.           In
the viper, the slit seems filled up by the enamel, which being
nearly transparent, a bristle in . the poison tube may be seen
through       it,
              and causes an appearance as        the slit was open.
                                                          if
   In the first case, therefore, there      no channel observable on
                                                    is
the exterior of the tooth      the line of junction, however, of the
                                      ;
edges of the slit     very distinctly marked
                           is                       in the cobra de ca-
                                                           :
pello there     an external furrow from the foramen of the base to
                    is
that of the apex, owing to the edges of the slit being rounded;
the same      the case in those species of hydrus that
                 is                                            have ex
                                                                    I
amined.
 I   should observe, that the poison tube         not coated with ena
                                                          is
mel ;  for the membrane or capsule in which the tooth           formed,  is
and from the inner surface of which              well known that the
                                                     it   is
enamel      deposited, does not pass between the edges of the slit
             is
into the poison tube as, however,
                                :           passes over the slit,
                                                    it              will      it
cover    with enamel, and
        it                  in  some  cases, by  that  means alone, the
edges become soldered together.
   As some excuse for the errors which may be found in this pa
per,I    must observe, that many of my observations have been
confined to small teeth of species of hydrus, which
                                      a                      wa6 there
                                                                    I
fore obliged to dissect under the microscope.
 I   have to thank Sir Everard Home for the great interest that
he has taken in the object of my inquiry, and for the assistance
which he has afforded me         on the value of which
                                      ;                       would be
                                                                    it
needless to enlarge before the members of this Society.
   The drawings annexed to the paper will sufficiently attest my
obligations to Mr. Clift.     owe much to him, in addition, for the
                                    I
zeal with which    he  exhibited   to me every thing in the Museum
of which he has the custody, that was likely to promote my views,
and for information upon several points, which was required in
the progress of the investigation.
                                Description    of   Plate V.
   a,I,     c, are representations of the poisonous fangs of the
                  d,
cobra de capello, in four stages of their growth.
   A,   B,C, D, are magnified representations of the same.
   A,      full-grown fang firmly fixed to the bone.
        is is
   B,    not quite perfect, the lower part of the foramen at the
           a
base not being yet formed.
   C, in this    very small part of the foramen
                      a                            formed.     is
   D, the part of the tooth above the foramen alone appears.
   E,   F,G, are end-views of          D, showing the poison tube
                                          B,   C,
nearly surrounded       the cavity wh\ch contains the pulp, and the
                            by
proportions between them, at three different parts of the tooth.
   H, section made
        a                        by
                           sawing the full-grown fang    just above A,
                                                                the

460                   On the received Theory          of Heat.
the lower foramen, showing the rounded edges of the slit, which
consequently leave a slight channel along the tooth.
     I, K, magnified representations of sections of the fangs of an
unknown species of serpent, which have exactly the same form
as those of the rattle-snake.
     I, is a section of a young fang taken about the middle : in this
stage of growth, the cavity which contains the pulp almost en
tirely surrounds the poison tube; and the edges of the depres
sion which form the suture are seen to be angular, and present
so large a surface to each other, that the suture is completely
filled up even in this early stage of growth.
    K, is a section of a full-grown fang of the same species of ser
pent at the same part as the preceding.       Here the cavity of the
pulp    is seen greatly contracted from  the more advanced stage of
growth.
LXX.        On the received Theory    of Heat.             By A Correspon
                                  dent.
                             To   Mr.   Tillocli.
Sir, —      In   addition to my hasty remarks (iu your October Num
ber) I think that heat       is only the effect of a decomposing prin
 ciple   circulated  from,  or  sympathetic with, the sun, because of
 its peculiar activity when immediatelv under              it,
                                                         and its indolence
when out of its presence, except when collected in the form of
 combustion, electricity, galvanism, or lightning, &c.                then     It
 shows an appearance corresponding with the matter                   com  it   is
pounded with, and disorganizes any substance in proportion to
the purity, quantity and rapidity of its application to it.          Com
bustion     is perhaps  maintained    by  the  flowing  in of the  decom
posing principle from the adjoining air, and lightning an acci
dental mass bursting to     a    natural distribution, and violently dis
uniting the component parts of the atmosphere, upon whose junc
tion meteoric stones mav be formed from the half-melted mate
rials.     On the equator this influence         the most regular and ef
                                                is
fective — raising befor the sun   a   prodigious increase of atmosphere
out   of  earth, water, &c. forcing        by
                                            expansion      current of air
                                                                 a
from  it,   which being resisted (in degree)           by
                                                       more dense atmo
                                                       a
sphere, produces a reaction upon the surface of the earth, and
thereby a constant revolution towards the sun.                       If
                                                               elementary
heat was the cause of this,       I   think our atmosphere' would be
wholly condensed before     it   reached the icy regions; its heat would
be entirely withdrawn, and the matter            it  composed of descend
                                                      is
to the earth     in  particular latitudes.    In the case of insensible
perspiration in plants and animals, we perceive            decomposition
                                                                 a

                          Notices respecting New Bonks.          461
of water (at least), whose place   is supplied by the substance im
mediately   under it,  communicating a continuance and succes
sion of motion and sensation called heat throughout the system.
When an organ in the human frame is much debilitated, a blister
or sudden decomposition on the surface is often more efficaciously
invigorating to what is beneath        than internal medicine — from
                                       it,
the latter being only    spur to an already jaded animal, and giv
                            a
ing dangerous kicks to its neighbouring organs         while the for
                                                       ;
mer    a happier imitation of natural stimulus.
      is                                             conclude there
                                                       I
fore with venturing to submit that heat           an effect of disor
                                                 is
ganization, and not an elementary principle.
                      am, sir, very respectfully, yours, &c.
                      I
Claughton-House, Lancaster,                                     S. O.
           Nov. 17, 1818.
   P. S. As we recede from the equator or ecliptic, the decom
posing principle acts with less energy therefore the atmosphere
                                             ;
contains less earthy matter; so that what    lightning in a dense
                                                 is
atmosphere may rationally be aurora borealis at the poles.
                 LXXI.      Notices respecting New Books.
The                   of the Royal Society, Part II. for 1818, just
           Transactions
published,  contain:
   XIV. On the Parallax of certain fixed Stars. By the Rev. John
Brinkley, D.D. F.R.S. and Andrews Professor            of
                                                     Astronomy in
the University of Dublin. — XV. On the Urinary Organs and Se
cretions of some of the Amphibia.    By John Davy, M.D. F.R.S.
Communicated           by
                     the Society for the Improvement of Animal
Chemistry. — XVI. — On Mal-conformation of the Uterine Sy
                                a
stem in Women       and on some physiological Conclusions to be
                     ;
derived from it. In a Letter to SirEverard Home, Bart. V.P. R.S.
from A. B. Granville, M.D. F.R.S. F.L.S. Physician in Ordinary
to H. R. H. the Duke of Clarence; Member of the Royal Col
lege of Physicians, and Physician- Accoucheur to the Westminster
 General Dispensary. — XVII. New Experiments on some of the
Combinations of Phosphorus.       By Sir H. Davy, LL.D. F.R.S.
Vice-Pres. R.I. — XVIII. New experimental Researches on some
of the leading Doctrines of Caloric particularly on the Relation
                                         ;
between the Elasticity, Temperature, and latent Heat of different
Vapours; and on thermometric Admeasurement and Capacity.
By Andrew Ure, M.D.        Communicated        W. H. Wollaston,
                                                  by
M.D. F.R.S. — XIX. Observations on the Heights of Mountains
in  the North of England.     By Thomas Greatorex, Esq. F.L.S.
In   aLetter to Thomas Young, M.D. For. Sec. R.S. — XX. On
the different Methods of constructing    Catalogue of fixed Stars.
                                             a
By   J.Pond,  Esq. F.R.S. Astronomer   Royal. — XXI.     Descrip
                                                            A

   462               Notices respecting New Books.
  tion of the Teeth of the Delphinus Gangeticus.      By Sir Everard
  Home, Bart. V.P.R.S. — XXII. Description of an Acid Principle
  prepared from the lithic or uric Acid.   By William Prout, M.D.
  Communicated by W.H.Wollaston, M.D. F.R.S.— XXIII. Astro
  nomical Observations and Experiments, selected for the Purpose
  of ascertaining the relative Distances of Clusters of Stars, and of
  investigating how far the Power of our Telescopes may be ex
  pected to reach into Space, when directed to ambiguous celestial
  Objects.     By Sir William Herschel, Knt. Guelp. LL.D. F.R.S.
  — XXIV. On the Structure of the poisonous Fangs of Serpents.
  By Thomas Smith, Esq. F.R.S. —XXV. On the Parallax of a
  Aquilce. By John Pond, F.R.S. Astronomer Royal. — XXVI. On
  the Parallax of the fixed Stars in Right Ascension.       By John
  Pond, F.R.S. Astronomer Royal. — XXVII. An Abstract of the
  Results deduced from the Measurement of an Arc on the Meri
  dian, extending from Lat. S° 9'38"-4, to Lat. 18° 3' 23"-6, N.
 being an Amplitude of 9° 53' 45"-2.         By Lieut. Col. William
  Lambton, F.R.S. 33d Regiment of Foot.
 A    Treatise on Marine Surveying. In two Parts.       By Murdoch
     Mackenzie senior, late Marine Surveyor in His Majesty's
     Service.    Corrected and republished with a Supplement by
     James Horsburgh, F.R.S. Hydrographer to the Hon. the East
     India Company. 8vo, pp. 183.
     The Treatise on Marine Surveying by the late Mr. Murdoch
 Mackenzie, of which we are now presented with an improved and
 enlarged edition, has long maintained the character of the most
scientific, useful and exemplary work on that branch of nautical
knowledge ever published in this or perhaps in any other country.
 It  has nevertheless not been reprinted since its first appearance
 in 1774, and is now extremely scarce.
     To those, therefore, who are curious to reach the summit of
nautical science, and to naval officers in general, a republication
of this work, by an editor so. able and well-informed as Mr.
 Horsburgh, cannot fail to he highly acceptable.       Although the
original work has been preserved in the form given it by the au
thor as nearly as possible, we have met with several important
alterations which appear to us to have been rendered essen
tially necessary by the rapid improvements Navigation has lately
received from the introduction of chronometers and.other means,
and have been introduced by the ingenious editor with a degree
of accuracy and skilfulness, to which we beg to bear the humble
tribute of our most unqualified approbation.
    A Supplement has been also added, containing some interest
ing examples, with precepts relative to marine surveying, and
other information applicable to the advancement of young officers
in useful knowledge.                                             The

                    Notices respecting New Books.                 463
    The work is dedicated in very handsome terms to the vene
rable President of the Royal Society, as the " acknowledged pa
tron of science, and of every invention or improvement calculated
to advance the happiness and to promote the welfare of man
kind."
    Dr. Thomas Forster       has just published a small Tract on
the periodical Affections of the Brain and Nervous System.          In
endeavouring to deduce the periods of diseases from periodical
changes in the atmosphere, the author alludes to the following
remarkable circumstance, — that the periods of many nervous
diseases correspond with those well known changes of weather
which so often happen near the new and full of the moon, as
to have been ascribed, even by popular opinion, to her special
 influence on the weather.      He notices also numerous periodical
plants,   which   open  and shut  their flowers at particular hours of
the day and night, in order to prove an atmospherical cause of
the periods observed by plants as well as animals.
     The same author will shortly publish Observations on the
Periods at which the different Organs of the Brain become ac
tive, and those at which their Activity ceases.
    A considerable work has long been expected from Dr. Spurz-
 heim, on Education, founded on the knowledge of the Physiolpgy
 of the Brain.
    Mr. Bicheno of Newbury has published a book On the Na
 ture of Benevolence, in which are some curious and novel re
 marks on the Poor Laws.
    The expected Account of the Mission from Cape Coast Castle
to the Kingdom of Ashantee, in Africa, will, we understand, ap
pear in a few days. It has for its author Thomas Edward Bow-
ditch, Esq. Conductor and Chief of the Embassy; and comprises
the History, Laws, Superstitions, Customs, Architecture, Trade,
 &c. of that part of Africa. To which is added, a Translation
from the Arabic, of an Account of Mr. Park's Death, &c. with
 a Map, and several Plates of Architecture, Costumes, Proces
sions, &c. In one 4to volume.
 OLsernatio?is    on Ackermann's Patent Moveable Axles for
     Four-wheeled Carriages, containing an engraved Elevation
     of a Carriage, with Plans and Sections conveying accurate
     Ideas oj this superior Improvement. Crown 8vo. pp. 54.
     The Axles, which are the subject of these observations, are
the invention of Mr. Lankensperger, of Munich; but the patent
for them, as is usual in the case of inventions by foreigners, has
been taken out in the name of Mr. Ackermann, as agent for the
contriver.   .

464                 Notices respecting New Books.
   T. W. C. Edwards, M.A.          author of The First Principles of
Algebra,    is publishing   a Course  of familiar Lectures on the Out
lines of Chemistry and Philosophy, including the latest discove
ries and improvements.
   These Lectures are to be illustrated by a variety of neat dia
grams and experiments.          The volume will be portable, and well
adapted    for the  use of  schools as well as private reading.
   Just published, Elements of Medical Logick; illustrated by
Practical Proofs and Examples.            By Sir Gilbert Blane, M.D.
Physician to the King, &c. Svo.
   Practical Illustrations of the Progress of Medical Improvement
for the last Thirty Years; or, Histories of Cases of Acute Dis
eases, as Fevers, Dysentery, Hepatitis, and the Plague, treated
according to the Principles of the Doctrine of Excitation, by him
self and other Practitioners, chiefly in the East and West Indies,
in the Levant, and at Sea. By Charles Maclean, M.D. &c. Svo.
    Illustrations of the Power of Emetic Tartar in the Cure of Fe
ver, Inflammation, and Asthma ; and in preventing Phthisis and
Apoplexy.       By William Balfour, M.D. Author of " A Treatise
on Rheumatism, &c."
    In the Press, A Treatise on Midwifery, enforcing new princi
ples, which tend materially to lessen the sufferings of the Patient
and shorten the duration of Labour.            By John Power, Accou
cheur, Member of the Royal Medical Society of Edinburgh.
   An Account of the Epidemic and Sporadic Disorders which
prevailed this year, 1818, at Rochester, and near it.         By Wal
ter Vaughan, M.D. Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians
of London. Svo.
    Illustrations of the Power of Compression and Percussion in
the Cure of Rheumatism, Gout, and Debility of the Extremities ;
and in promoting general Health and Longevity.             By William
Balfour, M.D. Author of " A Treatise on the Sedative and Fe
brifuge Powers of Emetic Tartar, &c."
   Just published, The Theory of Parallel Lines perfected, or The
Twelfth Axiom of Euclid's Elements demonstrated.              By Tho
mas Exley, A.M.
   An Account of the Historv and Present State of Galvanism.
By John Bostock, M.D. F.R'.S. pp. 164.
    Practical Hints     on Decorative    Printing.    By William Sa
vage.       Part I. The present Part contains, Chap. I. Introduc
tory Sketch of the Progress of the Art.       — Chap. II. On    Printing
                                                             Materials.
                           i

                                 of France.
                   Royal Institute                      465
Materials. — Chap. III. On Press-work. — Chap. IV. On Print
 ing in Colours.    The illustrative decorations which accompany
these chapters are — Two pages of types, showing the varieties they
have undergone — Two subjects, female figures, to show the
effect of different coloured inks, with fine engravings — A Sybil
writing; — two blocks — Female figure and child, a street sweeper,
three blocks ; an impression is given of each block, with their
progressions and combinations — Four head pieces, printed as
 cameos; three blocks each — Ancient tower near Denbigh, to
i mitate a drawing in India ink ; nine blocks — Cottage and landscape
to imitate a drawing iu India ink; nine blocks — Earl Spencer's
 arms in their heraldic colours; six blocks — Butterfly in colours;
 seven blocks — Parrot in colours; seven blocks — Grecian vase
from the collection of Sir William Hamilton in the British Mu
seum, to imitate the original ; six blocks — Cottage and land
 scape, to imitate a coloured drawing; fourteen blocks — Six
tables of inks showing eighteen colours.
          LXXII.    Proceedings         of Learned   Societies.
                  ROYAI. INSTITUTE OF FRANCE.
            Investigation   of'   the   Dry   Rot in Timber.
At the    Sittings of the Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris, on
the 16th ult., a Report was read on " An Essay on the Dry
Rot, by Robert Mac William, Architect : and on the 23d the
Secretary, Mons. . Cuvier, addressed and transmitted to the au
thor an acknowledgement of the receipt of the work by the Aca
demy, and of the proceedings that had in consequence taken
place ; intimating to him, that it was on account of the impor
tance of the objects of which he had treated, and of his scientific
researches, that the Academy had been led to have the analysis
(compte verbal) made out ; and adding, that though it was con
trary to their usage to deliver to authors a copy of their Reports
on printed works, the Academy had made an exception in his
favour, and directed their Secretary to present him with a copy
of this Report, and to thank him for having made them acquaint
ed with a work, the interest and instruction of which were such
as to induce them to give it an honourable place in the library
of the Institute.
Vol.52. No. 248. Dec. ISIS.                    Gg           LXXIII. In-

                              [   466    ]
         LXXIII.   Intelligence and Miscellaneous Articles.
                        On the Nautical Almanac.
                            To Mr. Tilloch.
Sir, — Onk       of your correspondents has, in a former number
 of your valuable Miscellany (Vol. LI. page 186) suggested some
 improvements in the future Nautical Almanacs, to be published
 under the direction of the New Board of Longitude, which I hope
will be attended to. There is one circumstance however con
 nected with this subject, to which he has not drawn the attention
 of the New Board, but which I think would be highly useful ;
•namely, the place of the moon in right ascension and declination
to seconds of a degree. At present the place of the moon is given
to the nearest minute only, which is not sufficiently correct for
many useful purposes.      In the Connaissance des Terns the right
ascension is given to the nearest second', and I hope the editors
of that valuable work will, in the future volumes, pursue the same
plan with respect to the declination.— It is well known that the
moon's parallax in right ascension and declination may be much
 more readily found, than her parallax in longitude and latitude;
as in the former case we need not have recourse to finding the
longitude and height of the nonagesimal: and consequently            all
problems relative to her apparent place may be much more easily
and expeditiously solved. — The late elegant formulae of M. 01-
bers, for this purpose, have also given an additional interest to
the subject and
             :     itwill readily occur to your astronomical readers,
that this method of determining the apparent place of the moon
is the one best adapted for determining the various circumstances
relative to occultations of the fixed stars, as well as other pha-
nomena in which the apparent plac,e of the moon         isinvolved.
                         I  am, sir, your obedient servant,
 Dec. 15, 1818.                                              Ptolemy.
     P. S.   observe that the publisher of the Nautical Almanac
             I
has printed and distributed a list of what he calls additional cor
rections for the Nautical Almanac for    1   9. May request some
                                             8
                                             1        I
of vour numerous correspondents to inform me where the pri
mary, or preceding, corrections are to be found           as   observe
                                                       ?     I
three very  remarkable  errors, not at all noticed in these  additional
corrections, viz. the entire omission of two solar eclipses (one on
March 25, the other on October 18th), and the insertion of an
occultation of Antares on December 5th as visible at Greenwich,
                                        1
which cannot be th& case besides several other errors which
                             :                                      I
have never yet seen published.

      On purifying Coal Gas. — Lamps.         — Steam Engines.         467
                      ON PURIFYING COAT. GAS.
    In our last Number but one, we inserted a letter from Mr.
S. Parker, of Liverpool, on the above subject ; and in our last
Number, another from Mr. G. Lowe, of Derby ; also the speci
fication of a patent for the same purpose taken out by Mr. G.
H. Palmer in January last. To the information afforded by
these articles we now add, that an apparatus extremely similar
to that specified by Mr. Palmer has been publicly exhibited at
the Agricultural Repository in Winslow-street, Oxford-street,
upwar'ds of two years.     It was made by Mr. Manby, Director of
the Horseley Company's Iron Works near Dudley in Worcester
shire, and who has been for several years past engaged in the
manufacture of similar apparatus, and in fitting them up in va
rious parts  of this country.
                                 LAMPS.
    In lamps it is essential that the oil be kept on a uniform level
with the wick — the reservoir therefore has necessarily been in an
obtrusive and inelegant position.       A gentl«man in Paris has re
cently made some beautiful lamps, where the oil is in the base of
a column, and is pumped up by a spring and pendulum working
in the oil, the surplus supply returning to the reservoir by a waste
pipe; thus enabling the workman to give them any ornamental
or fanciful shape. — S. S.
                   STEAM ENGINES IN CORNWALL.
   From Messrs. Leans' Report for November ISIS, it appears
that the following was the work performed during that month, by
the engines reported, with each bushel of coals.
               >            Pounds of water lifted     Load per squure
                         \foot  high with each bushel.  inch in cylinder.
23 common engines averaged            2 1 ,386,S 1 8        various.
Woolf 's at Wheal Vor          . .    3 1 ,957,3 1 2        17- 8 lib.
Ditto        Wh. Abraham              36,441,367             168
Ditto         ditto   ..       ..      19,233,473             6-7
Wheal Abraham engine           . .    3 1 ,508,4 1 9         109
Dalcoath ditto                 ..     37,127,355             11-3
United Mines ditto             . .    34,680,485             18- 6
Treskirby ditto       ..       ..     34,987,815             11- 25
Wheal Chance ditto             . .    31 ,274,98 1           12- 2
                       THE UNUSUAL SEASON.
   Among the many phenomena produced by the unusually warm
summer and autumn which we have had this year, may be reck
oned the appearance already of several of the ordinary produc
tions of spring.    Three weeks ago the Narcissus was in bloom in
                                   Gg 2                             a shel

468               Greek Antiquities. — Lectures.
a sheltered situation in Hampshire; and what is still more extra
ordinary, the young leaves of the lime-trees are already fully ex
panded on some trees on Wanstead Flats in Essex.         Early this
month (December) a swallow was seen, and the spring snow
drop (Galanlhui nivalis) was in flower.
   What particular constitution of atmosphere has led to this un
usual anticipation of spring appears to be unknown ; but it seems
to be not merely the warmth, as warm autumns have not hitherto
been followed by similar phaenomena.
    Greek Antiquities in the Crimea. — Extract of a letter from the
Engineer Von Stier, at the fortress of Fanagoria, in the govern
ment of Tauris, formerly the Crimea, Aug. 20, 1818.
   " Among the curiosities of this place are the remains of anti-      .
quities of the time of the Greeks, who planted colonies here. In
the beginning of this month, in digging up a hill, a stone vault
was discovered, which contained a corpse six feet and a half long,
in a very good state of preservation. The head was ornamented
with a golden garland of laurels ; and on the forehead a golden
medal which represents a man's head with the inscription Philip.
On both sides of the corpse stood golden and earthen vessels, as
was the custom among the Greeks, also several golden chains
and ear-rings ; and on one of the fingers was a gold ring with a
-valuable stone, on which were represented a male and female
figure of exquisite workmanship.      From all this it may be con
cluded that this was the burying-place of one of Philip's gene
rals."
                             LECTURES.
    Mr. Guthrie   on Surgery. — Mr. Guthrie, Deputy Inspector of
Military Hospitals, will commence his Spring Course of Lectures
on Surgery, on Monday, January IS, at five minutes past Eight
in the Evening, in the Waiting Room of the Royal Westminster
Infirmary for Diseases of the Eye, Mary-le-bone Street, Picca
dilly. To be continued on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
    Two Courses will be delivered during the Season.
    In each Course the Principles of Surgery will be explained,        .
 and the Practice resulting from them, with reference both to
Domestic and Military Surgery, fully pointed out.
    The Diseases of the Eye, although forming an integral Part
of the Lectures on Surgery, will, for the convenience of illus
tration, be delivered every Thursday evening until completed.
    The Operations referred to 'in the Lectures will be shown in     .
each Course.                       v
    Terms of Attendance. — Perpetual       Five   Guineas. — Single
 Course Three Guineas.
    Medical Officers of the Navy, the Army, and the Ordnance,
                                                              ' will

                          Lectures. — Patents.                    469
will be admitted gratis, on obtaining a recommendation from
the Heads of their respective Departments, which must be pre
sented to Mr. Guthrie between the hours of two and half-past
four, at his house, No. 2, Berkeley-street,      Berkeley-square.
    Lectures on the Practice of Physic. — Dr. C. Forbes, Deputy
Inspector of Military Hospitals; Physician to His Royal High
ness the Duke of Kent; Senior Physician to the Surry Dispen
sary ; Physiciai? to the Royal Westminster Infirmary for Diseases
of the Eye, &c. will commence a Course of Lectures on the
Practice of Physic, on Wednesday, January 21st, at Nine o'clock
in the Morning, at the Royal Westminster Eye Infirmary, Mary-
le-bone Street, Golden-square.
    Terms of Attendance. — Single Course Three Guineas. — Per
petual Five Guineas.
    Medical Officers of the Navy, the Army, and the Ordnance,
will be admitted to attend these Lectures, on presenting a re
commendation from the Heads of their respective Departments,
to Dr. Forbes, at his House, No. 25, Argyll-street, before Nine
    Mr. Taunton will commence his next Course of Lectures on
Anatomy, Phvsiology, Pathology, and Surgerv, on Saturday,
January 23, 1819.
            LIST  OF   PATENTS  FOR NEW INVENTIONS.
    To Jeremiah Spencer, of Great James-street,     Bedford-row, in
the county of Middlesex, for improvements on a certain descrip-       v
tion of fire grates, by which improvement the combustion of
smoke is more easily effected. — 5th December, ISIS. — 2 months
allowed to enrol specification.
    To Frederick William Seyfert, of St. John's- street, Clerken-
well, in the county of Middlesex, for improvements on certain
descriptions of watches and clocks. — 5th December. — 2 months.
    To Marc Isambard Brunei, of Chelsea in Middlesex, for his
sheets of tin foil capable of being crystallized in large varied and
beautiful crystallization. — 5th December. — 6 months.
    To John Whiting, of Ipswich, Suffolk, for a window shutter.
5th December. — 2 months.
    To Henry Pershouse, of Birmingham, for his improved me
thod of stamping pans for seals. — 10th December. — 2 months.
    To James Barron, of Wells-street, Oxford-street, in Middlesex,
for his improvement in the making and fixing of knobs, gene
 rally used on drawers, doors, and cabinet furniture, and known
 by the name of drawer and mortice furniture knobs or handles.
—10th December. — 6 months.
                                                          METEORO-

470                                Meteorology.
Meteorological Journal kept at Wallhamstow,               Essex,  from
               November       15 to  December 15, 1818.
[Usually between  the Hours of Seven and Nine A.M. and the Thermometer
            (a second time) between Twelve and Two F.M.J
Date. Therm. Barom. Wind.
November
15    48    29-40       SW — NW. — Wind, clear and cumuli; rain
      50                 after 11 A.M. till about 2 P.M.; fine after
                         wards; moon-light and cirrostratus ; at 10
                         P.M.     moon in a large halo, and stars visible
                         within the area of the halo, and thin stratus
                         over the other part of the sky.
16    48    29-62     SE. — Very rainy till about noon; a cloudy
     56                   and dark day ; cloud} and windy evening ;
                         moon-light at 11 P.M.
17    47    29 61     W. — Very fine: clear and cirrocumuli; ex
      50                 treme fine day; clear sky; sun and wind;
                         fine moon-light.
18   34     30-00     SW. — Fine morn, but rather hazy; fine day;
      45                 moon -light.
19    44    30-00     SW— SE. — Gray morn; gray day; fine star
      52                 light.
20    39    29-91     E — SE. — Clear and windy; fine day; sun and
      48                 wind   ;  star-light.
21    40    29-70     SE — E. — Gray and windy; fine day {cold);
      44                 a swallow    was   seen near Lea Bridge ; dark
                      .  night. Moon last quarter.
22    35    29-70     E — NE. — Fine morn; very fine day; stars vi
      44                 sible, but rather hazy.
23    44    29-50     SE — SW. — Rainy morn ; sun and cumuli;
      55                 wind, and very damp; star-light.
24    50    29-64     SE — W. — Very damp and rainy at 7 A.M. ;
     52                  foggy at 10 A.M. ; fine afternoon ; clear
                         and cirrostratus; star-light.
25    35    30-00     S by W. — Foggy morn; fine day; sun, rather
      45                 hazy ; some stars visible.
26    50    30-10     SE. — Gray and damp early; rain at 8 A.M. ;
      52                 very rainy till after dark ; cloudy at 9 P.M.
27    5k    30-30      S — SE. — Cloudy at 7 A.M. and at 8, foggy;
      53                 very fine day ; very dark night.
28    49    30-30      SE. — Clear and cirrostratus; fine day; hazy
      57                 and some sun ; very dark night.           New
                         moon.
                                                              November

                             Meteorology.                              471
Date. Therm. Barom. Wind.
November.
29    53   30-22    W— SW. — Cloudy          and damp ; gray day, and
      58             some wind ;        set shower at 1 P.M. ; very
                     dark night.
30    50   30 20    SE — SW. — Gray        ; hazy  and gleams of sun ;
      54             dark night.
December
  1   48 30-00      SE. — Gray morn       ;  very dark day ; dark night.
      47
  2   44    29-90   NW. — Cloudy morn ; dark day; rain early ;
      46             clear starlight.
  3   48    29-62   SE. — Cloudy and windy           ; very showery and
                      windy ; moonlight.
  4   46    29-50   SE. — Cirrostratus and clear; very red before
      49              sunrise; fine day; cloudy and windy. Moon
                     first quarter.
  5   42    29-55   SE. — Clear and windy          ;   fine   day ; moon
      50              light.
  6   36   29-55    SE. — Clear and white dew            ; fine day ; sun,
      49              and clear  ;  cloudy and windy night ; aurora
                      borealis.
   7  47    29-39   S. — Cloudy;      showery and hazy; light, but
      52              neither moon nor stars visible.
   8  47    29-70   SE. — Gray morn ; a shower of hail at 10
      53              A.M. ; gleam of sun and very damp ; light,
                      but no stars visible.
   9  41    29-95   N W. — Gray morn ; rainy day ; rainy night.
      47
 10   36    30-05   NW. — Clear and clouds         ; fine day ; sun and
      45              wind ; bright moon and starlight.
 11   33    30-05   NW. —Clear mom ; very fine day ; cloudy
      41              but light.
 12   33    30-10   N — NW. — Clear moonlight morning ; show
      40              ers and sun ; showery night.            Full Moon.
 13   36    30-10   W. — Clear early; very red sun-rise; cirro-
      40              stratus ; very fine day ; cumuli and light,
                      but neither moon nor stars.
 14   37    30- 10  N. — Cirrostratus; cold fine gray day; at             9
      40              P.M.    cloudy     night  ; moon       and star-light
                      late.
 15   36    30-10   NE. — Cumuli        and clear ; very fine sun and
      40              cumuli;      cold    and windy; bright moon
                      light.
                                                                METBORO-

472                          Meteorology.
          METEOROLOGICAL       JOURNAL KEFT AT         BOSTON,
                            LINCOLNSHIRE.
    [The time of observation, unless otherwise stated, is at 1 P.M.]
          Age of
  1818     the   riiermo- Baro    State of the Weather and Modification
          Moon    meter.  meter.             of the Clouds.
          DAYS.
Nov.  15    15      51-5  29-58 Fine — heavy rain      P. M.
      16    16      55-   29- 50 Cloudy
      17   17       50-   29•84   Fine
      18   18       47•5  30- 10 Ditto
      19    19      54-   30•10 Cloudy
     20    20       48•   30-     Fine
     21    21       43'   29•86   Cloudy
     22    22      43-    29•86 Very fine
     23    23       53-   29•72   Fine — rain morning and evenS
     24    24       49•   29•85 Rain
     25    25       46-5  30•16 Fine
     26    26       52•   30•15 Rain
     27    27       54•   30•42 Cloudy
     28 new         55•   30•40 Ditto
     29    29       57•   30•30 Ditto
     30    30       54•   30•20 r me
Dec.    1     1     51•   30-05 Ditto
             2      43.   30•05   Ditto
       3     3      51-5  29-64 Cloudy
       4     4      47•   29-55 Fine
       5     5      49'   29•56   Ditto
        6    6      46-5  29•67 Ditto                                [ing
        7    7      47-   29- 52  Cloudy — heavy rain in the morn-
        8    8      49-5  29•82   Fine
        9    9      41•   30•14   Cloudy
      10    10      43•   30•25   Ditto
      1 1   1 1     43•    30- 27 Ditto
           full     43•   30•22   Ditto
      13    13      44•    30-27  Ditto
      M     14      42-5   30-33  Ditto
                                                               METEORO

                                     Meteorology.                                          473
                          METEOROLOGICAL                      TABLE,
                  By      Mr. Carv, of the Strand,
                                  For December 1818.
                      i
              Thermometer.
                                    J!        Height of           «i   >u
                                     U
Days of                                                        OH      S
                                          .
             c                       C ^
                                              the Baroni.                       Weather.
Month.                              U"3r,
                          Noon.
             U    %                            Inches.
                                    '°Z                        to «
             co
                                                              o   =    "
                      1
Nov.   27    52           57        55        30-40              25         Fair
       28    53           57        55            •38            24         Fair
       29    55           57        55            •34            20         Fair
       30    54           55        54            •20            20         Cloudy
Dec.     1   47           47        50        '29-99              15        Cloudy
         2   42           47        40        30•01               16        Cloudy
         3   45           47        46        29-65               0         Rain
         4   47           52        50            •48            26         Fair
             51           54        46            •52            26         Fair
         6   46           50        45            -62            30         Fair
             44           52        52            •53                       Rain
                                                                  0 0
         7
         8   52           53        50            •89                       Rain
         9   44           47        44        30-05               17        Cloudy
       10    40           47        39            •14            24         Fair
       11    36           44        40            •14            22'        Fair
       12    40           44        40        -
                                                  -09             0         Small rain
       13    40           43        40            •17             15        Fair
       14    40           42        40            •19             13        Fair
       15    39           43        39            •15             10        Fair
       16    30           35         27           •04             8         Fair
       17    22           30         26           •01              S        Fair
       18    24           40         32       29-72               0         Rain
       19    28           38        40        30-27                5        Fair
       20    44           49        46            •06                       Cloudy
                                                                  8 5       Fair
       2I    48           48         37           •22
       23    28           28         30           •52                       Foggy
                                     28                           0 0
       23    32           37                      •35                       Foggy
       24     27          30         27           •22              7        Fair
       25    27           37         38           •06             0         Cloudy
       36    35           35         35       2990                6         Cloudy
             N.B. The             Barometer's height     is   taken at one o'clock.

                                         C     474    ]
                          INDEX to VOL. LII.
A CCVM          (Fred.)   Treatise on Che        Brussels.   Transactions of Royal Aca
    mical tests,                           140      demy of,                               146
Air.     On elasticity of,                214     Cast Iron Bridge,                        234
Algebra and Vulgar arithmetic.             On     Chemical philosophy. On, by Mr. Mat
    comparative powers of, by William               thew Allan,                      53, 1 13
    Gutteridge,                             88   Chemical science.     Elements of, by J.
Alkali new vegetable,                     S92       Murray,                                 60
Allan (Mr. Matthew).            On chemical       Chlorine.   On relation between, and
   philosophy,                        53, 113        muriatic acid, by Dr. Ure, 101 ; by
Amalgamation.        Process of, for extract         Dr. Murray,                           193
   ing gold and silver from other ores,          Chronometer, remarks on paper by Ma
    used at Halsbruck in Saxony,            26      jor-Gen. Brisbane on the,             409
American       (North)     quadruped. Ac          CoaUgas.    New method of purifying,
    count of, by George Ord,                 8                           292, 371 — 375", 467
Ammonia.         Erythrat of,               43   Coal-mi" f. explosion at,                  67
Apollonicon.       On the performance of,        Conolly (Mr. Jos.) Telegraphist's Vade
                                           171      Mecum by,                             374
Arcs, comparison between chords of,              Cow-tree,                                382
    employed       by Ptolemy and those          Cimea, Greek Antiquities in,             468
   now in use,                            454    C'ocodite, remains of,                     68
Arithmetic (Vulgar) and Algebra.           On    Davy (Sir Humphry), on some combi
    comparative powers of,                  88      nations of phosphorus,                440
Arithmetical complements, on,             211    Davy (Professor Ed ), experiments on
Arnott (Mr. G. A. Walker). On diffe                 hard water at Black Rock, near
   rence between chords of arcs em                  Cork,                                    1
   ployed by Ptolemy and those now in            Dry-rot, on the means of curing, 131
                       -
   use,                                   454    Dupin (Chev.),on the maritime works
Arsenic,   test   of poisoning by, 73    ; re       and civil engineering of France and
   medy against,                          379       England,                              132
Asiatic S ciety, proceedings of,           14 1  Earth. On the operations undertaken
Astronomical circle at GreenioUh.          On       to determine the figure of, by M.
    the,                                    52      Biot,                                 119
Astronomy of the Orientals.        On,    1C8    Ea-thquake,                              394
Atmospheric phenomena,                      75   Earthquakes. Observations on the phe
Barytei, erythrat of,                       40      nomena of, by   ' the Rev. John Mi
Bint (M.) On. the operations           under        chel!,                     183, 254, 323
   taken to determine       the figure of the    Edinilr.   New mineral found at Edin
   earth,                                 119       burgh,                                  66
Biquadratic equations. Solution of, 378          Electrical experiments,                  376
Botany, guide to, by Jas. Millar, M.D.           Electrical lncrenser, for manifestation
                                            61      of small portions of the electric fluid,
Brazil, scientific researches in,         3,13      account of, by H. Upington,Esq.        47
Bright (Richard, M.D ). On the gold              Electrical planispheres, improvement on
   and silver mines of Hungary, 12;                 the method of forming,               29S
   process of amalgamation for extract           Enthrals of lime and barytes, 40 ; of
   ing gold and silver from other ores,             potash and soda, 41 j of ammonia,
   26 ; Hungarian agriculture,            283       43; of iron, 44; of lead, 45.
Brisbane (Major-Gen.) remarks on pa              E'yihric acid, on                          30
   per by, on the chronometer,            409    Evoluiv n. Improvements in,             341
Brvgnatelli     (Dr. Gaspar), on treating        Eye. New discovered membrane in, 74
   uric acid with nitrous acid, and new          Fire-damp, of, and the means of pre
   acid thence produced, called " Ery-              serving coal-mines from its explo
   thric,                                   30      sion,                                 137

                                        INDEX.                                           475
Fossil remains,                            377    Lester   (Mr.) New discovery in optics
Fossil shells. Localities of,       described        by,                                    68
    by Mr. James Sowerby,                  348    Lime, erythrat of, 40; on use of, in
Franklin (Benj.), Memoirs of the life                agriculture,                         436
    and writings of,                         61   Live lizard found in a seam of coal, 377
                                                  Lowe (Mr. G.),on purifying coal-gas,
Fructification     of seeds. On,             81
Fungi.       On the growth of,             299                                            371
Gasking (Thomas), case of,                   62   Magnetical variation, theory of,        295
Gold and siluer. Process of extracting,           Magnetism applied as a test for iron,
     by amalgamation,       from other ores,                                              S93
                                             26   Mammoth cave of Indiana, acc. of, 230
Greenwich.       On the astronomical    circle    Mammoth, remains of,                      68
     at,                                     52   Massey's patent sounding machine.       On,
Gun, new rifle,                              75                                           213
Gutteridge (Wm., Esq.), on compara                Mattheis (Dr. Jos. de), on the origin of
     tive powers of algebra and vulgar               the Roman numerals,                    61
     arithmetic,                             88   Metallic tissue, properties of,         138
 Haarlem.       Proceedings    of Society of      Meteorological Journal at fValthamstow,
     Sciences at,                          223                   77,156,237,317,396,470
 Hammet (Dr. John), account of a voy               Meteorological    Jiumal   at  Boiton,  79,
     age to Labrador and Quebec by, 206                               159,239,319,399,472
 Haiiyne, discovery of, in the island of           Meteorological Journal by Mr. Cary, 8C,
     Tiree,                                 384                       160,240,320, 400,473
 Heat.      On the received theory of, 294,        Meteorology, observations in, 236, 467
                                            4C0    Metre.     On the length of the French,
 Heal.       New researches on,             38 1                                           431
 Hill (Mr. Rowland),         on improvement        Michell (Rev. John).      On the pheno
      in the method of forming electrical             mena of earthquakes, by, 183,254,
      planispheres,                         293                                            323
 Horsburgh (Mr. James).        New edition of      Mines in Cornwall. On temperature of,
      MacKenzie's Marine Surveying, 462                                                    204
 Hot water on flowers, effects of,          392    Mons (M. Van), on Professor Tune's
 Hungarian agriculture.          On, by Dr.           preparation of hydrosulphurate of
      Bright,                               283       iron,'                               231
 Hungary. Account of the gold and silver           Moon. On measuring the depths of ca
       mines of, by Richard Bright.M.D., 12           vities seen on the surface of,       321
 lbbetson (Mrs.),        on fructification of      Muriatic acid. Experiments on the re
      seeds,                                  8 1     lations between, and chlorine, by
  Inglxs (Mr. Gavin). On theory of wa                 Dr. Ure, 101 ; by Dr. Murray, 1 95
       ter-spouts,    216; on the swallow,         Murray (Mr. J.) Elements of chemical
       271; on the royal Scotch thistle,              science by,                            60
       S91 ; on preservation     of seeds, use     Murray (Dr. John), on muriatic acid
       of lime, &c.                         436       gas,                                  195
   Involution.      Improvements in,         341    Music. Whether necessary to the ora
  Ireland. Complete school of physic in,               tor, to what extent, and how most
                                             148       readilv attainable, by Henry Uping-
  iron, preparation of hydrosulphurate                 ton, Esq,,                161,241,401
       of, by Prof. Turte of Berlin,         231    Nautual Almanac. On errors in,          466
   Iron, erythrat of,                          44   New apparatus for impregnating liquids
   Iron railways.       Improvement and ex             with gases,                          370
       tension of,                            153   New Books, notices respecting, 58, 132,
   Kater (Capt. H.) Account of experi                                      222, 300, 373, 461
        ments for determining the length of         New South Wales, discoveries in,          64
        secouds' pendulum by, 90, 173,364,          Niiholson (Mr. Peter), on arithmetical
        415; on the length of the French                complements,     210; on involution
        metre,                               431       and evolution,                       341
    Kremniix, description of,                  22   Nitrous acid.      On treating uric acid
   Lamps, improvement in,                     467       with,                                 30
    Lead, erythrat of,                         45   Optics, discovery in, by Mr. Lester, 68
    Lean (Mr. Thos.), on temperature of             Ord (Geo.) Account of North Ameri
        mines in Cornwall,                    204       can quadruped by,                       8

476                                   INDEX.
Ovis. North American quadruped sup               Society for the    encouragement of in
   posed to belong to the genus,            8       dustry iii France, prizes proposed
Palmer (Mr. G.) Extract from his spe                by,                                  144
   cification for purifying coal-gas, 375       Society of Sciences at Haarlem, Trans
Paper, improvement       in the manufac            actions of,                    147, 223
   ture of,                                74   Soda, erythrat of,                      tk4l
Parker (Mr. S.) on new method of pu             Sound.      On velocity of,              214
   rifying C03I- gas,                     292   Specific gravity of the human body and
Patents for neiv mventions, 76, 155,235,            sea-water.    On the difference be
                              316, 395, 469         tween,                             . 282
Pendulum.     Experiments for determin           Specific h'.at of bodies from their ex
   ing the length of seconds of, by                 pansion.    On, by Mr. Thos. Tred-
   Capt. H. Kater,       90, 173, 364,415           gold,                                251
Philips (Sir Rich.) New theory of uni            Spencer Knight, Esq. on difference be
   verse by,                              141       tween specific gravity of the human
Philosophical Transactions     if the Royal         body and sea- water,                 282
   Society of London,                 £8, 62     Spurxheim (Dr.) on phrenology,          300
Phosphorus. New experiments on some              Steam- engines in Cornwall, 64, 225,
   of the combinations of,                440                                313,590,467
Ptatma, singular mass of,                 382   Sugar from the beet-root, produce of,
Polar expedition, accounts of, 71, £25,             in Franee,                           384
                                    305,387     Swallow. On the, by Mr. Gavin Inglis,
Potash, erythrat of,                       41                                            271
Prase discovered in Scotland,             316    Tar-light for street-lamps,             3 16
Riddle (Mr. Ed.) remarks by, on paper            Tredgoid (Mr. Thos.) on elasticity of
   by Major-Gen.        Brisbane     on the         air and velocity of sound, 214; on
   chronometer,                           409       specific heat of bodies from expan
Roman numerals. On the origin of, by                sion,                                251
   Dr. Jos. de Mattheis,                   61    Universe. New theory of,                141
Royal Acad. of Brussels, Transac. of, 146        Upinglon, Henry, Esq. on electrical in-
Royal Geological Society of Cornwall,               creaser for manifestation     of small
   Transactions of,                       SOI       portions of the electric fluid, 47; on
Reyal- lnstitute-6& Frimce, proceedings            the question whether music is neces
   of,                         62, 145, 465        sary to the orator,       161,241, 401
Royal Institution, Lectures at,           148    Ure (And., M;D. ) on relation between
Royal Scotch Thistle, extraordinary, 391           muriatic acid and chlorine,           101
Royal Society of London, Transactions            Uric acid. Observations      on treating
   of,                                58, 62       with nitrous acid, by   ' Dr.
                                                                                 G, Brug-
Royal Society of Edinburgh, Transac                natelli,                               30
   tions of,                         60,451      Vessel, air-tight,                      233
Safety-lamp, on the,                   '  224    Volcano, pseudo-, in Staffordshire,      72
Salt. Method of making, :n the Great             Water- burner, American,                385
   Loo Choo island,                       383   Water, experiments       upon, at Black
SchtmnVz,ncc. of Mining college at, 21             Rock, near Cork, by Prof. Davy, 1
School of Physic m Ireland,               148   Wuter-spoul destructive, 68 ; theorv of,
Seeds.    On fructification of,            81                                           216
Seeds.   On preservation of,              436   ffalt (Dr.), Bibliotheca Britannica by,
Serpents. On,                      233,315                                              373
Serpents. On the structure of the poi-          Wesla'l   (Mr.W.), Views of    caves in the
   sonoui fangs of,                      457       N.W. riding of Yorkshire, by           61
Silver and gold. Process of extracting          Yeates  (Thos.), variation chart of the
   by amalgamation from other ores, 26             navigable globe by, 222 ; on magne-
Smith (Thos. Esq.), on the structure of            tical variation,                     295
   the poisonous fangs of serpents, 457
                   END OF THE FIFTY-SECOND VOLUME.
                    Primed   by R. ar.d  A. Taylor, Shoe-Lane, London.






I
S. fertit.sc



XX DOS 2bb 032
 CL<f~2/ A


